Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Climate change : Food security what assessment he have make of the potential impact of climate change on food security . let I start by acknowledge just how tough it have be for so many farmer this year , have be face with the very extreme weather condition . we have have very hot weather , follow on from last year , when many suffer from flood . it be undeniable that we be see our climate change . the Government be respond by tackle flooding , invest a record £ 8 billion in flood defence to protect home and farm , help to tackle problem in rural community such as mine in the fen through our £ 91 million internal drainage board fund , and invest in nature - friendly farming , which boost climate resilience , enhance farming profitability and secure food production . three of the UK ' s five bad harvest have be in the last five year , and this year be look particularly concern , with yield likely to be down and margin for farmer on the brink . just last month , the Bank of England say that extreme weather be now one of the key factor in drive food price inflation . could the Minister elaborate on what other step the Government be take to mitigate food price inflation for consumer ? my hon . friend make a very important point . of course , consumer food price depend on a wide range of factor , include agrifood import price , agricultural price in general , domestic labour and manufacturing cost , exchange rate , productivity and the extreme weather we have be see , which inevitably impact growth and livestock feed supply . I reassure the House that the UK have a very resilient food supply chain , and as our food security report show , it be well equipped to meet these challenge . I recently visit the Dinsdale family farm to talk to the group of hard - work dairy farmer who provide milk to the Wensleydale Creamery to make their famous Yorkshire cheese . I know the Minister will join I in commend their contribution to british food security and the dinsdale family for their innovative installation of an anaerobic digestion unit , which turn slurry into energy . could he look at what more can be do to encourage small - scale on - farm ad unit , which not only significantly cut methane emission but significantly cut cost and increase income for our hard - work family farmer ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and I join he in commend the Dinsdale family for the work they do . I have speak to a number of farmer who would very much like to do that . of course , there be significant cost involve , and we be work with farmer to try to get the circular economy that we all want to see . the depletion of soil health , the risk of disease and climate change threaten our food security for the long term , and yet we need biotechnology and science to ensure that we have a future in farming . would the Minister be willing to meet the BioYorkshire project , which bring together Fera Science , the University of York , Askham Bryan College and other , to ensure we have the research and the translation and scaling of that to protect the future of farming ? I assure my hon . friend that I have have numerous conversation with lead academic in her great city , and I would be happy to have further conversation along those line . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . in June , the Scottish Government make a very welcome commitment not to pursue a deliberate policy of reduce livestock number . despite that , livestock number in Scotland continue to fall and have fall by 15 % over 10 year , so that across the United Kingdom we now risk lose the critical mass we need to maintain the network of abattoir , haulier , vet and merchant . if food security genuinely be national security , be now the moment to consider include within the remit of the Climate Change Committee the maintenance of food security ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . we absolutely recognise that food security be national security . he be right about the decline in herd size , but of course , there be other aspect here : we have see high productivity and change genetic . it be a complicated picture , but I be happy to have further discussion with he on that . water Company executive : accountability what step he be take to help prevent financial reward for water company executive responsible for poor environmental performance . what step he be take to increase the accountability of water company executive . the previous Conservative Government quite disgracefully let water boss award themselves more than £ 112 million in bonus that they do not deserve . this government be put a stop to that . we have ban the payment of unfair bonus and bring in new jail sentence for pollution offence . the Tory era of profit from pollution be over . this weekend , for more than 30 hour , waste water from toilet , sink and drain flood the River Lea , affect local community and spread to east London , include the wetland in Stratford and Bow . Thames Water continue to dump sewage and waste water in our river at an alarming rate , all while company boss pay themselves million in bonus . may I thank the Secretary of State for the work that this Government be do to crack down on that appalling practice , and ask what he be do to ensure that the british public be not pay for that failure after receive rise water bill ? what be he do to secure the serious investment that be need for the health of our river ? my hon . friend be a great champion for her constituent in east London , on this matter as on many other . with her support , this Government have secure a record £ 104 billion to upgrade crumble pipe and build sewage treatment work across the country , so that we can cut sewage pollution . we have also ringfence customer ' money , so that it can never again be divert away from investment to pay for bonus and dividend while sewage pollution get bad . that , of course , include in the Lea valley . this summer it be report that the CEO of Yorkshire Water have receive an extra payment from a parent company , in spite of recent admission that it would not be appropriate to receive a bonus due to the company ' s poor performance . Yorkshire Water have commit to improve transparency , but that be of little comfort to my constituent who be face high bill . do the Secretary of State agree that it be wrong that those water boss receive financial reward , when my constituent be face high bill and a shocking performance ? as my hon . friend rightly say , that payment have outraged customer , and I have ask Ofwat to assess its legality as a matter of urgency . I will not tolerate any company attempt to circumvent this Government ' s ban on unfair bonus through exorbitant salary increase , secret bonus , payment through parent company , or any other deception . if Ofwat find that the rule have be break , company will face sanction , include fine impose at a level that will deter future abuse . state - own Scottish Water be responsible for the water supply across Scotland . last week , thousand of resident in the Scottish Borders be leave without water for day , and terrible communication by Scottish Water make matter bad . we be face a public health crisis , as well as an animal welfare crisis . do the Secretary of State agree that the Scottish Government should undertake a full investigation into what happen and ensure that Scottish Water executive be hold to account for their failure to act ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on raise that important issue , and I agree with the point he make . the SNP Government in Scotland should be take a much tough line against such situation , as it be not acceptable . level of pollution in England be bad enough , but under the SNP in Scotland they be even bad , and the SNP Government should be fully ashamed — [ interruption . ] order . let we carry on . I call Mr Joshua Reynolds . the public will have be pleased to hear recently about the bonus ban for water company boss , but they would have be equally surprised to hear that a water company boss in England be award a massive pay increase to £ 1 . 4 million , with the public being tell that that be not a bonus but a two - year long incentive plan . what further step can the Secretary of State put in place to ensure that water company be play fair , when those be the tactic that they use to circumvent the rule ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , which have be raise in the House before . that scheme be put in place and relate to year when the conservative party be in government . that scheme would not be allow today . Household Water Bills what step he be take to protect household from significant water bill increase . customer be hit with outrageous bill increase last year as a direct result of the previous Government ' s failure to ensure that water and sewage pipe be properly maintain over the long term . they deliberately impose a light - touch approach to regulation that let the system crumble , while investment funding be divert to line water boss ' pocket , leave customer to pay the price . our powerful new regulator will get a grip on the sector and ensure the regular maintenance of pipe , so that hard - work british family be never again leave to pay the price of under - investment and weak regulation . in Derby , the propose water bill increase of about 50 % will hit people really hard over the next five year . it be a bitter pill to swallow , because at the same time as hike bill , shareholder dividend be be increase and water company continue to pollute our waterway . what assurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that our Government will tackle such hypocrisy head on and , crucially , protect our resident from the water bill increase ? my hon . friend be right to advocate so strongly for his constituent in Derby at a time when they be experience the cost of living crisis , as other be . I thank he for his support in block the unfair , multimillion - pound bonus that be previously pay to water boss . by ensure that customer ' money be spend on upgrade the water system , rather than allow it to be divert to bonus and dividend , he be help to ensure that the bill hike that result from Tory failure will never happen again . unbelievably , the Secretary of State have just double down , in the House , on the falsehood that he advance on 21 July on " Channel 4 News " that pollution level be bad in Scotland than they be in England . I be sure that the Secretary of State do not want to mislead the House . will he take the opportunity to correct the record — order . " falsehood " be not a word we would use . I be sure more constructive wording could be use . thank you for your guidance , Mr Speaker . the Secretary of State have inadvertently advance the same argument that he do on 21 July on " Channel 4 News " . will he clarify that pollution level under publicly own Scottish Water be substantially well than those under privately own english water company ? will he recognise that scottish bill payer pay low bill and that Scottish Water ' s borrowing be sustainable and consistent with the value and quality of Scotland ' s water ? the hon . Gentleman be show why the problem persist — if the SNP do not recognise the problem , there be no way that it can fix it . I have publish the datum and I stand by it : pollution under the SNP in Scotland be even bad than it be under the Tories in England . he should be thoroughly ashamed of what he be do to the beautiful countryside of the country that he represent . I call the shadow Minister . the future of Thames Water be in sharp focus again , affect million of people and potentially the wide UK taxpayer . bizarrely , the third party — along the Benches to my left — lead legal action that could have sink the company . Reform UK be also happy for the company to go under , expose taxpayer to a cost of billion and push consumer water bill through the roof . this Labour Government , in the passing of the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , repeatedly block our conservative amendment that would have enable limit to be place on the amount of money that can be borrow by water company . as we reach a precipice with Thames Water , and give the Cunliffe review ' s clear call for improved financial responsibility , will the Government rethink their approach and adopt sensible measure to put water company on a more stable and secure financial footing to protect water , the environment and the british taxpayer ? the reason that Thames be in the state that it be in be the weak , so - call " light - touch " regulation that the Conservatives impose on the water company when they should have be get a grip . the point beyond that that the hon . Gentleman make be a sensible one , however , and our reform to water regulation and indeed to the regulator be intend to ensure that such problem can not happen again . in the case of Thames , we be of course keep a very close eye on what be go on with that company . at the moment , it remain viable , but we be ready for all eventuality , should they occur . Moorland Protection what step his Department be take to help protect moorland . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs work with other to protect moorland by restore peatland , manage graze and reduce practice that in some case can be harmful , such as burn . those step make peatland wetter to help reduce the impact of wildfire . we be review the exist protection and will announce the next step shortly . a devastating wildfire have be rage on the North York moor , between Scarborough and Whitby , cover about 10 square mile — it be a huge fire . I be sure that the Minister will want to join I in commend the incredible bravery of our firefighter , as well as the tireless service of farmer , water tanker driver , gamekeeper , landowner and all the other volunteer . will the Minister provide reassurance that he will look carefully at proposal to limit control burning and to change the prohibition of burn on peat over 40 cm deep to peat over 30 cm deep , in the light of this year ' s record number of uncontrolle fire , include the one on Langdale moor ? I thank my hon . friend for her powerful contribution . I join she in express sympathy for all those who have be affect and I thank all those involve in fight those fire . this be a cross - governmental issue . wildfire and fire and rescue service be the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , but my hon . friend will be aware that we have be consult on end locational burn to improve moorland resilience to wildfire . we know that restore peatland with diverse plant specie prevent the over - dominance of heather and molinia , which dry out peat and increase the risk of fire . frankly , recent wildfire show just how degrade our peatland have become . I join the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) in pay tribute to the firefighter , farmer , gamekeeper and everybody who have take part in fight the moorland fire in North Yorkshire , just over the border from my constituency . do the Minister agree about the huge importance of manage moorland ? manage burning of moorland not only improve the ecological status of the moorland , but reduce the threat of wildfire . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman and that be why the consultation have be take place . these be complicated issue , and sometimes controversial , but we all want to get those moorland into a state where we be not subject to these dreadful fire . I call the shadow Minister . the thank of Conservative Members go out to all the emergency service , our mighty farmer and gamekeeper who have be consistently fight the horrendous blaze on the North York moor . the Secretary of State be currently push a dangerous proposal to ban a vital conservation and land management measure through eliminate the use of control burning of heather on moorland , which manage fuel load and help to prevent out - of - control fire . do the Minister now recognise that if the Government ' s burn ban and deep peat change go ahead , they will be responsible for more uncontrollable and far more damaging wildfire that negatively impact wildlife , our precious peatland and rural business ? no , I do not agree with the shadow Minister . I have choose my word carefully : this be a complicated set of issue , we be consult and we will be come back with our proposal shortly . Dorset Coast : pollution what step he be take to help tackle water pollution on the Dorset coast . my hon . Friend show I the scale of pollution on the Dorset coast and I share his determination to put a stop to it . this government be fix the break sewage pipe that be responsible for this pollution , fund by £ 104 billion of private investment that we have help to secure . over the next five year , that will fund Wessex Water , in his area , to cut storm overflow spill by 43 % — a major milestone towards clean up for good beautiful place in his constituency , which I have the pleasure of visit with he , such as Bournemouth beach and Hengistbury . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer and for his two visit to Bournemouth . People still talk happily about his visit to the Hengistbury Head outdoors centre . I meet recently with constituent in Bournemouth East who be call for nationalisation as a way to improve accountability and investment in the water industry . how do the Secretary of State see a path towards nationalisation sit within his wide effort to protect our water ? nationalisation be not the answer , because it would require handing over more than £ 100 billion to water company owner that could only be raise through high taxation or cut to vital public service . it would also take year of legal wrangling that would see the brake slam on investment , cause pollution to get bad and , ultimately , lead to high bill for customer . this government be take the fast possible route towards clean water and fairer bill . we in North Dorset would love to be talk about ministerial visit from the DEFRA team , but , despite an invitation to the Farming Minister , none have cross the border to visit . North Dorset farmer and landowner wish to play their active and full part to ensure that , through nitrate neutrality and other farming mechanism , they be improve water quality to help the river that flow to the coast of Bournemouth , Christchurch , Poole and so on . will the Secretary of State ensure that body such as the Environment Agency and other that advise our farmer provide consistent advice in a timely fashion in order to maximise their enthusiasm ? adjournment debate require . I have enjoy visit Milton Abbas on many very happy occasion . I agree with the point that the hon . Gentleman make . we be work with farmer and landowner to ensure that they be get the support they need to take the kind of action that he talk about . the new regional tier propose by Sir Jon Cunliffe will give a place where farming and land manager can raise their voice and ensure that the outcome they can contribute to be deliver . bathing water : pollution what progress he have make on reduce pollution in bathing water . we have introduce a new era of accountability . we be reset , reform and revolutionise the water sector , put public health and the environment first and deliver the change rightly demand by the british people . with the most ambitious target on sewage water pollution in history , we will halve sewage water pollution by 2030 . over the summer , we see the announcement of a £ 50 million investment into Southport ' s waste water treatment work to reduce the number of sewage overflow to just three per bathing season , allow Southport to once again become the jewel in the crown of the north - west coast . do the Minister agree that that level of investment be very much need after more than a decade of Tory neglect of our waterway , and that it show the difference a town can see when it have a Labour MP , a Labour council , a Labour metro mayor and a Labour Government here in Westminster ? Minister , that be a tough one . unsurprisingly , I could not agree more . I thank my hon . friend for his work to champion his community here in Parliament . the previous Government oversaw record level of sewage pollution in our river , lake and sea , but this Government have secure £ 104 billion of private investment to upgrade crumble pipe and halve sewage pollution by 2030 , so that community can once again take pride in their river , lake and sea . as I have remind Ministers on a number of occasion , tackle pollution in our river and sea require we to address agricultural pollution as well as sewage pollution . I be disappointed not to hear the Minister mention that , but I like to come with solution . I recently visit the Wyescapes landscape recovery project in my constituency , which be an innovative farmer - lead project of 49 farmer protect soil , reduce pollution , restore nature and produce great - quality food . will the Minister , or perhaps her colleague the Farming Minister , come to visit this innovative project to see how we can tackle river pollution and protect nature and food production ? another Adjournment debate need . the hon . Lady raise a really important point . agricultural pollution be incredibly serious , and this Government recognise that . we have update the DEFRA statutory guidance for the farming rule for water , and I recently host a roundtable with farmer , environmental organisation and the water industry to bring the voice of stakeholder to the fore . we have commit to include a new regional element in the new regulator to ensure great involvement in water planning . by move to a catchment - base model for water system planning , we can tackle all source of pollution enter the waterway , include agricultural pollution . I have a very keen interest in the River Wye ; I go to see it last year , and it be absolutely beautiful . the hon . Lady will be well aware of the research project with £ 1 million of funding that we announce to look into all source of pollution and what we can do to clean up this beautiful place in our country . I welcome the fact that the rolling reporting of dry - day spill have become mandatory under our government , but it have unfortunately lay bare the track record of South West Water , which be among the bad offender on dry - day spill . what step be the Minister take to ensure that company such as South West Water feel the full force of the law with regard to dry - day spill ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to be angry about the state in which our river , lake and sea have be leave , and I recognise the trouble that a fail water company cause for his constituency . that be why we have commit to resetting , reform and revolutionise the water sector and why we be establish a new , single and powerful regulator that can fully hold all company to account and ensure that they be deliver for the british people and clean up our waterway for good . run - off from chicken manure be a particular problem in the bathing water and river in Shropshire . I have visit both Harper Adams University and LOHAS Fertiliser in my constituency , which have great new technology to deal with chicken manure , stabilise it and move that great fertiliser to other part of the country where it cause few problem . however , they can not scale up , so what step be the Minister take to enable the new technology that could deal with some of these problem to be scale up and use across the country ? the hon . Lady raise a really interesting point — it be perhaps worry how interested I be get in what we can do with manure and human waste to provide organic fertiliser in our country . she have give a brilliant example of what can be do , and I will make sure that the Minister who be responsible for the circular economy , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , get to hear about it and learn more . sustainable Farming Incentive what step he be take to increase access to the sustainable farming incentive for small and medium - sized farm . funding for the environmental land management scheme pay to farmer will increase by 150 % , from £ 800 million in 2023 - 24 to £ 2 billion by 2028 - 29 . sadly , though , we inherit a set of scheme that do not necessarily distribute fund fairly . we be work with farmer to reshape the SFI , and further information about our reform will be provide shortly . like the National Farmers Union , I welcome the protection for the agriculture budget in the recent spending review , include crucial funding for sustainable farming . on visit to farmer in my constituency , the difference this be make be clear : it be invest in our countryside and support nature - base farming . however , far too many farmer on small and medium - sized farm tell I that the scheme be far too difficult for they to access at the moment . those be exactly the farmer who be also likely to be lock out of private nature - base financing option , so how can we work with those farmer to reform the scheme and ensure that more of those small and medium - sized farm can benefit from this crucial funding ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I commend he on his interest and his insight . he be absolutely right , and we be learn from past SFI iteration and from what we be hear from farmer to improve the SFI for all farmer and to ensure we can give well guidance and that everyone can have a share of the pie . we be also look into a new local advice and collaboration offer , as well as consider how we can get the good environmental outcome from the money we be spend . after the elephant in the room that be the farm - destroy family farm tax , the no . 1 issue that be raise with I by Mid Buckinghamshire farmer — not least at the Bucks county show last week — be the uncertainty over the future of the SFI . I do not think it be go to cut it with farmer to say that further detail will be provide in due course . they need certainty and they need it now , so will the Minister come to the Dispatch Box and put a firm date on when farm will have that certainty , as well as assure they that the new SFI will have food production at its heart ? the hon . Gentleman will be pleased to know that we will be make announcement on this very shortly . [ interruption . ] we be pick up a disastrous mess inherit from the previous Government — this be absolutely true — who be quite cavalier about the way in which these scheme be run . we be have to clear up that mess , but I absolutely sympathise with farmer , who should not have be put in that position in the first place . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . give the Secretary of State ' s love of Dorset , I would love to invite he to Mid Dorset , where Goodens farm be do some really innovative thing on very small family farm , especially with manure . Mr Randall , who run that farm , join the sustainable farming incentive last year , which enable he to start grow a new crop — herbal ley . because climate change be make farming so tough , he be try everything he can to keep his business go . the SFI allow he to take that risk , but it be no long available to he . as he put it , we need farm security if we want food security , so what step be the Minister take to look after farmer on our very small farm , who be critical to food production ? there be a lot in that question . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that herbal ley have be very effective , and many people have see the impact they have have during the dry weather . it be also interesting that these scheme be now available to much small enterprise than they ever be under the previous scheme . there be much that can be do , and we be redesign the scheme to make they work towards achieve exactly the outcome that the hon . Lady be seek . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as we have hear , this summer have see wildfire burn across our countryside . I add my thank to the emergency service , who be out in force to battle those fire , but so too be farmer , gamekeeper and local volunteer who give up their time and resource to control the fire and help put they out . I pay tribute to all of they for their selfless bravery and community spirit . the fire come at the end of a long period of drought . visit farm this week and early in the summer , I see for myself how food production have be affect . it be clear that further work be require to support farmer to build on - farm reservoir and irrigation system that can sustain their business through dry period , and I have invite the NFU to work with I on that . I want to use this opportunity , though , to thank farmer for the outstanding work that they do to feed our country through thick and thin . as we move into autumn , flooding be once again on the mind of resident in Rossendale and Darwen . this Government have already make vital commitment to our flood defence , but recently some community have express concern that flood modelling be out of date and be either not fully identify risk area or identify risk area as high - risk that no long be . the Environment Agency be aware of that , so will the Secretary of State join I in urge it urgently to prioritise new modelling ? my hon . friend make an important and timely point . through the flood resilience taskforce , we be look at how we can update the modelling to make sure that all area that need protection will get the investment to do it , because far too many community be expose to the danger of flooding . that be why we be invest £ 4 . 2 billion between 2026 and 2029 to protect our community and well maintain our flood defence in England . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I join the Secretary of State and everyone across the Chamber in thank the fire service , farmer and rural community for their hard work and bravery in tackle the wildfire that we have see this summer ? I be hearten to discover the Secretary of State ' s new fondness for farmer . we will all be listen carefully to his answer to the next question . with 89 % of farmer say that they have pause or delay investment because of the Budget , and with food price rise , record farm closure under his watch , and labour ' s own think - tank admit that the family farm tax need change , will he finally do the right thing , put rural community above his own ambition and axe the family farm tax ? first , may I welcome the shadow Secretary of State back to the Chamber ? it be disappointing that she do not bother to turn up for the water statement ; I can only assume that she do not care much about the pollution that her party be responsible for across the country . when it come to farming , we be work with the farming sector on a road map to bring it back to profitability . that be the route to ensure that those business remain financially viable and successful into the future . it be her Government who leave so many farmer on the brink of bankruptcy , so it take only small problem to push they over the edge . some 12 , 000 farm close under the previous Government . we be work with the sector to make it profitable for the future . I hate to break it to the Secretary of State , but I suspect I have speak to far more farmer than he have in the past 12 month . they do not believe a word he say , because he betray what he say to they before the election about the family farm tax . as for this road map , if farm continue to close — more than half of farmer be think of give up in the next five year because of this Government ' s plan — it will be a road map to nowhere . yesterday , the Governor of the Bank of England tell the Treasury Committee that the rise in food price be due in part to measure in the last Budget place high cost on food business . in light of that and the terrible summer harvest , will the Secretary of State do farmer a favour for once and rule out a new wealth tax on farmland in the next Budget — yes or no ? the cause of food price inflation include rise global energy price , extreme weather event that have be affect harvest , as we have already hear , and global supply chain problem , include the russian invasion of Ukraine . those thing be affect food price right across the country . as part of the road map , we be work with farmer to ensure more supply chain fairness , so that the producer of origin get a fair share of the money that be make through the system for the food that they grow . that be the good way in which we can support farm to get their fair share of the revenue that come in for the food they produce . in my constituency , producer such as Longley farm exemplify british quality . its dairy product be globally renowned . what specific step be the Department take to prioritise the purchase and promotion of british produce , ensure support for domestic farmer , reduce food mile and strengthen the UK ' s food security and rural economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we should all be proud of high - quality british producer like Longley farm . that be why , back in July , I announce our food strategy , which will build pride in british food by ensure we have a food system that back british food , grow the economy , feed the nation , nourish individual and protect the planet — now and in the future . brit chew 4 billion piece of plastic chewing gum each year . a single piece release thousand of microplastic into the body that be link to cancer , diabete and stroke . will the Government consider commission independent research into the environmental and health implication of plastic chewing gum ? I thank the hon . Lady for her important question , and I share her concern about the risk that microplastic may pose to the environment and human health . that be why we be look at all source of pollution that enter our river , lake and sea , but there be obviously more work to be do to improve our understanding . the Environment Agency be collaborate with different sector , include the water industry and National Highways , to increase our evidence base and knowledge of these material . may I also express my disappointment about the global plastic treaty ? we be unable to reach an international agreement , but I reassure all member of the House that the Government remain committed to seek a global solution to the problem of plastic pollution that we all face . Erewash ' s industrial base be build on the Erewash canal , which be now a lovely leisure spot for my constituent . but abandon boat , like the two near Sandiacre lock that sit rot for over two year , pose serious risk to public safety and local wildlife . I be very glad to work recently with the Canal & River Trust to get those two boat remove . can the Minister advise how we can support the Canal & River Trust in the future with the tool that it need to get similar boat remove in a more timely manner ? I commend my hon . friend for his successful championing of this issue on behalf of his constituent . I know how much it mean to his community to have such boat remove . it be an important issue , and I be more than happy to follow up with the Canal & River Trust in order to understand if it need any additional tool to continue and complete this work around the country . I recently speak to David , who farm near the village of Berwick in my constituency . he tell I that he have recently give up raise livestock altogether due to the lack of local abattoir — his near option be well over an hour away . what action be the Government take to support new and exist abattoir , so that farmer across the country who be in a similar situation to David do not stop raise livestock too ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point , and I visit an abattoir last week . because of the change to the system over a number of year , we have see a concentration of these facility . we all want to see more small abattoir . the previous Government introduce a fund , but it prove difficult to get uptake . there be a whole range of serious issue . we be very aware of the problem , and we want to work with he and other to solve it . in the last few day , I have have a huge number of email from constituent about continued sewage discharge into our otherwise beautiful sea and the shocking record of Southern Water on this issue . I note early that the Secretary of State say he have be to Bournemouth a couple of time , but can he come a little far down the coast , visit my constituency , and set out what this government be do to clean up our water and hold Southern Water to account ? well , I be not far away a couple of week ago — I be down in Lewes . I congratulate my hon . friend on be such a powerful campaigner on issue relate to sewage in his constituency . he tell I that he have bring together a group of campaigner . I would be delighted to meet he and they to see some of the problem and talk about how we can start to fix the appalling problem with pollution that the conservative party have land we with . we be join in the Gallery by farmer from my constituency of Newbury . it be the fifth time they have come to the House with the intent of lobby individual labour mp to try to stop the family farm tax . will the Secretary of State agree to meet the farmer from my constituency or to attend the Berkshire county show in just a couple of week ' time , so that he can explain to they directly why the Government believe that have an inheritance tax on farm be the right way forward , rather than protect the rural economy ? I be always happy to meet farmer . that be why I have visit two farm already this week and sit down with a group of six farmer to talk about their concern . I be more than happy to make sure that the people the hon . Gentleman have visit get an appropriate meeting to discuss their concern . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — People smuggle what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people smuggler . what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people smuggler . what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people smuggler . anyone involve in the vile trade of people smuggling will be meet with the full force of the law . this year , 67 % more offence for facilitate illegal entry into the UK be prosecute . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that the Government ' s Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will allow for more prosecution , include by criminalise the creation of online material that facilitate a breach of UK immigration law . I welcome the Government ' s step to deter people smuggling and end the exploitation of vulnerable people . I also want to highlight the work that Wolverhampton City of Sanctuary do in my constituency to help refugee rebuild their life . as the Home Secretary confirm only this week , one of the Government ' s major reform be develop control and manage route for genuine refugee . do the Solicitor General agree that have safe and legal route for asylum seeker be a crucial step in undermine the business model of the people smuggle gang ? develop control and manage route for genuine refugee be important . this be one of a host of robust , concrete and practical measure that the Government be take to crack down on the vile activity of people smuggle gang . I contrast our approach with that of the conservative party , which leave we with this border crisis , and with that of Reform , which be happy to stoke anger but have absolutely no answer . to stop the small boat , it be crucial that the Labour Government provide global leadership to smash the criminal gang . can the Solicitor General set out the work that we be do with other country to secure our border and end this appalling trade in human life ? my hon . friend rightly highlight this Government ' s global leadership on these issue , which be part of our plan to fix the border crisis leave to we by the last government . we have agree a landmark deal with France , and we have increase co - operation with Germany and other country . we have remove 35 , 000 people with no right to be here , and increase the removal of fail asylum seeker by 30 % . we be give Border Security Command counter - terrorist - style power through our border Bill , which be a Bill that both Reform and the conservative party vote against . my constituent in Halesowen continue to be concern about the number of people cross to the UK on small boat . they be call for swift and tough action against the people smuggler responsible for these dangerous crossing , which be put the life of woman and child at risk . can the Solicitor General outline how she be support this action ? I have hear from Crown Prosecution Service prosecutor about the deplorable action that the smuggler take in not only facilitate very young child be aboard the boat , but even sedate they to ensure they be compliant during the crossing . my hon . friend be right that the danger face by people , particularly child , when they cross the channel be extremely grave . this Government be absolutely determined to break the business model of the people smuggler , so protect our border and stop life , include young life , be put in such danger . will the Solicitor General commit to work across Cabinet to publish the number of people smuggle case that have collapse before trial over the past five year , and the reason why they have collapse ? I think this be important to look at , and I want to highlight that the CPS be take considerable action to prosecute these offence . we have give the CPS extra funding to increase its capacity to work on Border Security Command case , and the money will allow the CPS to recruit additional staff in the area at the frontline of combat organise immigration crime . I thank the Solicitor General for what she be personally try to do , and indeed the rest of the Government . if we be to prosecute people smuggler effectively , we need global action . may I focus her attention on the Republic of Ireland ? we have a porous border between Northern Ireland and the Republic , and the people smuggle gang be use that without any inhibition whatsoever . what have be do with the Republic of Ireland to ensure that that do not happen ? I be more than happy to look at that , but the point the hon . Member make about international co - operation be extremely important . that be why I highlight our groundbreaking deal with France — it be a deal that the Conservatives be unable to do — which will be absolutely key to stop people cross the channel . I call the shadow Solicitor General . I completely disagree with what the Solicitor General have say about the previous Government ' s record in this area , and it be a bit rich in view of her Government ' s record over the past 12 month . report reveal that Ministers will soon replace immigration judge with professionally train adjudicator . we be tell that be to tackle the 51 , 000 case appeal backlog , which will of course involve case of people smuggler . can she please confirm how long it will take to put that in place and whether it will require primary legislation ? the Conservatives leave we with a border crisis , and we be fix it . the shadow Solicitor General say that we be set up a new independent body to clear appeal more quickly , and that be exactly what we be do . we have double the number of asylum decision already : we be sort out their mess . figure be go up and up and up , and the Solicitor General know that . can she confirm who these adjudicator will be — it would be lovely if she would answer the question — and will exist first - tier tribunal judge of the immigration and asylum chamber be eligible to apply ? as I say , we be set up a new independent body to clear appeal more quickly . we be clear up the Conservatives ' mess , and the Home Secretary will bring forward plan in the area that the hon . Lady mention . Grooming Gangs what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to prosecute people for groom gang offence . what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to prosecute people for groom gang offence . the grooming and sexual exploitation of young girl in this country be nothing short of sicken , and the Government be do everything in our power to secure justice for the victim and protect child from further harm . the Crown Prosecution Service have significantly increase prosecution for child sex offence and recently secure conviction against three offender for truly hideous crime go back to 1999 . from my time as Lancashire ' s police commissioner , I have see the fruit when the police , the Crown Prosecution Service and the court work together to prioritise the listing of case involve rape and serious sexual assault , as we know that victim and witness be less likely to continue with a prosecution the long it continue . can the Solicitor General update we on the work be do to ensure that those agency work together to support the victim and prioritise those case listing ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , list be a matter for the independent judiciary . however , I can tell he that certain area have pilot scheme of weekly list meeting across criminal justice partner to ensure — as he say — that we lessen victim attrition , which be unfortunately far too high as a result of the record court backlog . I welcome the fact that the backlog of those case will be examine again , and that historical case will be look at , but one of the challenge be that whistleblower in local authority be sack under non - disclosure agreement . what advice be the Crown Prosecution Service provide to ensure that those nda be remove so that we can get to the truth of what happen with those terrible crime against young girl ? the hon . Gentleman refer to a very important issue , which be why I be pleased to tell he that through our flagship Crime and Policing Bill we be work to implement the key recommendation from the Jay review , one of which be include long - overdue mandatory reporting duty for those work with child . it also include make groom an aggravate factor in sentencing and crucial change to address safeguard loophole . the Conservatives fail to implement a single recommendation from the report of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , despite hold more than 20 meeting , event and roundtable on the issue . Alexis Jay herself speak of the huge disappointment and anger at their response . what work be the Government do to implement these recommendation and those from the Casey review ? as we hear from the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , in the House this week , the Home Office be make important progress in implement those recommendation . thousand of case have be identify for formal review , and priority case — those involve an allegation of rape — be be review urgently . increase funding for the tackle exploitation programme will allow all police force to access cutting - edge technology to combat these horrific crime . alongside the failure to go after some of the evil perpetrator of these crime without fear or favour , another devastating failing of the grooming gang scandal be the criminalisation of some of the young people involve by a system that all too often fail to see they as child and victim first . how be the Solicitor General work with colleague right across Government to ensure that we can disregard those conviction as quickly as possible , and so that such key failing can not happen again ? I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that the CPS be work actively alongside the Government to ensure that the criminal conviction for victim of child sexual exploitation , with the offence in that case be prostitution , be be disregard , which be extremely important . Criminal Justice System : technology what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve efficiency in the criminal justice system through the use of technology . well use of technology be key to reform all our public service , include the criminal justice system , from the police and the CPS to our court , prison and probation service . this Government be absolutely determined to harness all the power and potential of new technology to the benefit of the public , those who work in our public service and , of course , the public purse . I thank the Solicitor General for that answer . the court system and all the associate IT have be leave in the most catastrophic state by the previous Conservative Government . it be shock that £ 2 billion be spend on a civil court it system that can not even handle litigation where there be more than one claimant or defendant , which be basic and normal . the particular issue that worry I today , though , be the Legal aid Agency and the state of its it system ; as she will know , it be the subject of a cyber - attack in the spring . could she update we on that situation and on any potential plan to build back well ? unfortunately , my hon . friend accurately describe the year of neglect of the justice system under the previous Government . she ask specifically about the Legal aid Agency . the Government take immediate action to bolster the security of the agency ' s system and an injunction be put in place to prohibit the sharing of any breach datum . we have put in place contingency plan to ensure that those most in need of legal support can continue to access the help that they need , and we be work at pace to restore service quickly and safely . support for Victims of Crime what step she have take with the Crown Prosecution Service to support victim of crime . what step she have take with the Crown Prosecution Service to support victim of crime . this Government be commit to restore confidence in the criminal justice system , which mean ensure that victim of crime be properly support through the justice process . the CPS be take a range of measure to well support victim , include by offer pre - trial meeting to adult victim of rape and serious sexual assault , recruit victim liaison officer to act as a consistent point of contact for victim , and deliver the groundbreake victim transformation programme . early this year , I visit Southend - on - Sea Rape Crisis centre , where we discuss how extended court delay put pressure on the third sector organisation that provide this vital support . under the previous Government , the total backlog of all court case soar , with 73 , 000 victim leave wait year for their day in court . now , we finally have a Government who be put victim first . our Labour Government have allocate the high number of sit day on record . how be the CPS play its role in get quick justice for victim ? my hon . friend rightly highlight the necessary and important action that this Government be take to address the crisis in our court . alongside that , the CPS be use every tool at its disposal to reduce the backlog , include by trialle new initiative to expedite domestic abuse trial and weekly list meeting with partner in the criminal justice system . I recently visit a Colchester organisation , the Centre for Action on rape and Abuse , or CARA , which offer vital support to victim of rape and sexual abuse . will the Solicitor General reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to support such organisation , which carry out so much of that vital frontline work , and will she reiterate what she be do to enhance the number of rape trial that actually proceed ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the important role that organisation such as CARA play in support victim of rape and serious sexual violence . support victim throughout the criminal justice process be a priority for this Government , and we be take a range of measure to do just that , include implement Raneem ' s law to embed dedicated domestic abuse team within 999 control room and introduce free independent legal adviser for victim of adult rape . as the Solicitor General know , I have be campaign to support victim of spike . I thank she for meet I before the recess , but unfortunately the correspondence from her office subsequent to that meeting seem to entirely miss the point and do not follow at all the conversation we have . give that it quote heavily the CPS , will she agree to meet again with I , and with representative from the CPS , to understand the loophole in the law that I have identify ? it would be a tragedy for the victim of spike if this be not deal with because of something as frustrating as a misunderstanding by people who be not in the room at the time . the hon . Member have do important work in this area . we meet previously to discuss the potential for reckless spiking , and I entirely understand why he be concerned about that . the correspondence that we send reflect that we have have discussion with the CPS who feel that the circumstance that he be concerned about be very unlikely to arise . however , I be more than happy to meet he again if he believe that there be issue that need to be far clarify . close follower of Parliament will know that I have raise on more than one occasion a case of stalk in my constituency . despite be report , arrest and charge continually by the police , he keep get release on bail . the police be frustrated , and my resident be be let down . what assurance can I provide she and other in the same position that the CPS take seriously repeat offender and that their repeat offending be take into account when they finally come to court ? the hon . member raise a very important point , and I acknowledge how damaging stalk can be to people ' s life , particularly when it come to repeat offender . we have set out new measure to tackle stalk , include statutory guidance to empower the police to release the identity of online stalker and a review of the stalk legislation to ensure that it be fit for purpose . Economic Crime what step her Department be take with the Serious Fraud Office to tackle economic crime . Fraud be the most common type of crime in the UK . it hurt individual and business and undermine everyone who play by the rule — and it undermine economic confidence too . that be why the Government have underline their commitment to tackle economic crime by provide the SFO with an £ 8 million boost as part of the spending review . that will bolster the SFO ' s intelligence capability so that it can proactively identify and prosecute the big and most complex economic crime . a businessman in my constituency have be defraud of £ 100 , 000 . local police lack the skill and resource to investigate , and the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau say that it can not identify a line of inquiry , even though my constituent have compile evidence himself . to his great credit , my constituent be more concerned about how many more victim there will be while such crime go uninvestigated and unpunished . will the Solicitor General meet I to discuss how we can ensure that this crime be properly investigate and these wretched fraudster be bring to justice ? I be very sorry to hear about the position that my hon . friend ' s constituent have be put in . I be sorry to say that it encapsulate perfectly why fraud be so damaging . the Government be do everything in our power to crack down on fraud and corruption and support victim of these crime . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to see what more might be do in this case . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the newly build Launceston primary school in my constituency be demolish and then rebuild , cost million of pound because of serious defect in the building . the contractor at fault go into administration . unfortunately , this be far from a stand - alone case ; it be happen across the country . individual developer be put their company into liquidation and then set up a new one , evade their obligation to finish vital infrastructure such as road and sewage work . such case often leave Government Departments , homeowner and the british taxpayer out of pocket . what step be the Serious Fraud Office take to tackle these all - too - common case , and will the Solicitor General please consider new legislation to prevent such developer from get away with such serious fraud ? I be sorry to hear about the position that the hon . member ' s constituent have be put in . it be a terrible example , which I be sure need to be look at much more closely . as he know , the Serious Fraud Office be operationally independent . as a highly specialist agency , it take on a number of complex economic crime case each year . the case he raise may be one for it ; it may also be one for Action Fraud . I be more than happy to examine it far and to raise it with the appropriate agency . Court Backlog what step she be take with the Crown Prosecution Service to help reduce the backlog of court case . the Government inherit a record court backlog in the Crown court . on take office , we take immediate action , include by fund a record high number of sit day . the CPS be play its part to help tackle these issue . that include set up a surge team , which have complete more than 12 , 000 pre - charge decision , contribute significantly to reduce the backlog . the Solicitor General confirm the horrendous backlog in the Crown court to we all . in one case in my constituency , one victim , Dani , will have to wait more than six year to get justice . Dani be just 21 and have be a victim of groom and sexual abuse . do the Solicitor General agree that for Dani and many other , justice delay be justice deny ? what far urgent step will the Government take to tackle the backlog ? I be extremely sorry to hear about Dani ' s case . the previous Government close over 260 court building , and the human cost of the delay as a result of the backlog be really considerable . victim be wait year for justice , and attrition in rape case in particular have more than double in the last five year . as I say , on take office we take immediate action , and not only in relation to sitting day . we have also commit to invest up to £ 92 million more a year in criminal legal aid , and we be take action to ensure that there be more specialist counsel available , too . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . last year , 446 Crown court trial be ineffective because the prosecutor fail to attend . give that the Government be get to grip with the backlog they inherit by increase sitting day and through Brian Leveson ' s proposal , be the Solicitor General concern that the CPS also need to step up to the plate ? what be she do to ensure that that happen ? the CPS be indeed step up to the plate to play its role in reduce the backlog . in line with the Government ' s manifesto commitment , the CPS be explore option for expand the role of non - legal resource to support the system . it have also set up the surge team that I refer to . I can also confirm that the CPS be work with the judiciary , his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service and other criminal justice system stakeholder on a range of local initiative , include a trial blitz , case resolution court and weekly list meeting . duty of Candour what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to introduce a duty of candour . I know how much work my hon . friend have be do to support justice for Hillsborough family and indeed to push for a Hillsborough law . as she know , I be unable by convention to disclose whether the Law officer be advise the government — nor , of course , the content of any advice — but I know that colleague be work to bring forward a Hillsborough law as soon as possible . the family have be campaign for a Hillsborough law for 36 year , and their demand have always be clear : a law with a duty of candour at its heart . there have be too many broken promise and miss deadline . can the Solicitor General tell I when the Government will bring forward the Hillsborough law ? will it honour the promise make to victim of state cover - up and finally deliver justice for the 97 ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she have be a resolute and steadfast champion for the Hillsborough family , and indeed for the justice she refer to . as she know , the Government , include the Prime Minister , have be work closely with the family , and I can confirm that the draft Bill will include a statutory duty of candour for public servant , with criminal sanction for those who do not comply , and measure to decisively tackle the disparity between the state and bereaved family at inquest . as to timing , I know that everyone be work extremely hard to get the legislation right . the Government hope to be in a position to introduce a Bill to Parliament very soon . International Law : compliance what step she be take to help ensure that the UK uphold international law . the hon . member will appreciate that as a Law Officer I can not talk about the specific of legal advice to Government . however , he will be aware of paragraph 1 . 6 of the ministerial code that acknowledge the overarching duty on all minister to comply with the law . that obligation be inherent in all the advice that the Law officer give to Government . by the end of September , more than 640 , 000 gazan be project to face catastrophic food insecurity , while the integrate food security phase classification predict that a further 43 , 000 palestinian child will be at severe risk of death from malnutrition by next year . the Government will have receive legal advice regard the famine in Gaza and Israel ' s role in it . will the Solicitor General commit to publish any advice that the Government have receive on whether breach of international law have occur in the conflict in Gaza ? the hon . member will appreciate that I can not comment on any legal advice that may or may not have be give or , indeed , whether it have be seek . what I can confirm to he be twofold . first , the Government take their legal obligation extremely seriously . secondly , the Government be very clear in our position that the horror take place in Gaza need to be bring to an end . business of the House will the Leader of the House give the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 8 September will include : Monday 8 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Renters ' Rights Bill . Tuesday 9 September — second reading of the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill . Wednesday 10 September — remain stage of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 11 September — general debate on regional transport inequality , follow by general debate on suicide prevention . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 12 September — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 15 September include : Monday 15 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Employment Rights Bill . Tuesday 16 September — second reading of the Sentencing Bill . the House will rise for the conference recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 16 September and return on Monday 13 October . hon . member will also wish to note the write statement make this week confirm that my right hon . friend the Chancellor will deliver her Budget statement on Wednesday 26 November . I call the shadow Leader of the House . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope you and everyone in this Chamber have a very good summer break , with just the right proportion of sun , sleep and family . if I may , let I start with a double round of congratulation : first , to the Prime Minister on his 63rd birthday this week , put he squarely in the prime of life ; and secondly , to my brilliant colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , who have just be appoint to the giddy height of shadow Deputy Leader of the House . that be the reshuffle that really matter . as befit a former lawyer at Freshfields , he will bring his forensic intellect to scrutinise the Government . I have be plan to talk about the Government ' s performance over the summer , take into account the escalate union demand for pay , the rise in inflation , unemployment and gilt yield , and the record number of small boat crossing in the first half of the year . I think it be fair to say that the past few week have be a total shamble for the Government . little wonder that the Prime Minister have undertake yet another of his performative government reset to distract the medium and the general public . he insist that everything be absolutely fine , which be doubtless why it be all be change round yet again . they can not blame these thing on the previous Government , though doubtless the Leader of the House will try . there can , however , be only one topic today , and that be tax . in the real world , it seem that those of we poor soul who actually do pay tax be about to be confront with a massive tax - raise Budget , perhaps with a particular focus , it have be rumour in the medium — or kite have be fly — on property taxis . last year , the Chancellor increase spending by £ 70 billion , fund half of that through taxis and half through increase borrowing . of course , it seem that the only person who will not be pay more tax be the Deputy Prime Minister . I like and rather admire the Deputy Prime Minister — uniquely among the Government , she at least have a policy of try to reduce taxis . we just hear the Solicitor General talk about Government take a strict line on fraud ; I do not hear so much about take a strict line on tax fraud — [ interruption . ] or potential tax fraud , but we now have a situation in which the Deputy Prime have try to dodge pay £ 40 , 000 in tax on her third home after demand that previous Ministers should resign over tax scandal . it appear that she fail even to look at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs guidance on the internet as to whether high rate stamp duty be payable . that guidance be readily available and be straightforward . it be hard to imagine that any qualified tax adviser — let alone any individual seek to question their own tax arrangement — would not have take a look or know about it . the Deputy Prime Minister sign a deed for what appear to be an off - the - shelf trust scheme from Shoosmiths , the solicitor . be that craft to avoid tax ? we need to know more about what disclosure she make to the civil service about her three home , what review be carry out and what advice she be offer . I hope the Prime Minister ' s adviser will look at those issue , in addition to all the other issue he be look at . do the Leader of the House believe that Cabinet Ministers — let alone the Deputy Prime Minister of this country — should be use scheme to dodge tax ? should the Secretary of State responsible for housing be flip her own main residence to avoid pay tax due on it ? do she concede that there be the appearance of very serious impropriety about these proceeding ? do she see how difficult they have make the situation for her colleague , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who be plan to put a Budget in front of this House that will include tax - raise measure , many of which will likely be focus on property ? above all , Labour — and every Labour Member stand by this — make a solemn commitment to maintain the " high standard " in office in its own general election manifesto . do the Leader of the House accept that this conduct by the Deputy Prime Minister massively fall short of that , and that it discredit both the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole ? I call the Leader of the House . welcome back to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the House staff . I join the shadow Leader of the House in wish the Prime Minister a happy birthday for early this week . this summer have be mark by some happy personal event here in the House — no , I be not talk about Taylor Swift ' s engagement to Travis Kelce , although I be sure we will all want to wish they a happy engagement . we have our very own power couple : my hon . friend the Members for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , who get married to each other over the summer recess . there be also my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) , who marry her long - term partner Ian , and my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who marry Kristiam this recess . the happy news do not stop there . my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) have her beautiful baby daughter . I be thrill for she and also for my hon . friend the Member for Leicester East ( Shivani Raja ) on the arrival of her new baby , too . there be new dad in the House as well : my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) and for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) , so that be dispatch for this week . we be very much more a family - friendly Parliament these day , and I be determined that modernisation will continue that trend . I join the shadow Leader of the House in welcome the new shadow deputy Leader of the House , the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , to his place . I hope that he will still on occasion ask I some question and invite I to his constituency from the Back Benches , which I be always happy to accept as he know . I be also pleased to announce that this first bumper Session of Parliament under the Labour Government will last until spring 2026 . by any measure , our legislative programme in this first Session be highly ambitious , deliver on the promise that we make in our manifesto and shift power and opportunity to work people . there be a few highlight , which I know that shadow Leader of the House be always happy to hear about . we be give the big boost to worker ' right in a generation , finally end no - fault eviction , stop water boss ' bonus , set up great British Energy to get bill down , bring back rail into public ownership , save British Steel job , seize and crush dangerous off - road vehicle , finally recriminalise shoplifting , ensure that bus be affordable and serve their community , and protect our much - love football club . we be take on the vested interest that hold this country back , and we still have much more to do in the rest of this Session . in contrast , the conservative really have show on whose side they stand in this session : on the side of landlord against the Renters ' Rights Bill ; on the side of criminal gang in vote against our Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill ; for the few , not the many , in education ; and , as ever , die in a ditch to save the hereditary peer in the other place . we know whose side they be on . the shadow Leader of the House choose to have another go on the issue of tax and property , which be , I notice , the subject of one of the Conservatives ' Opposition Day debate yesterday . they could not muster enough speaker for that debate to go the full three hour , so he be have another go today . I repeat that the Deputy Prime Minister have give a full account of her family circumstance and living arrangement . she make it clear that she be now rectify her mistake . she have refer herself to the independent adviser on ministerial standard , who be now look into it . I will not say any more on that matter because he be look into it . suffice it to say that the Deputy Prime Minister be a huge , huge asset to this Government . she be an incredibly effective Minister and she have be deliver , whether on our record investment in social housing , the flagship Employment Rights Bill , the big settlement for local government in many year , major planning reform to get more home build , or the delivery of devolution and community empowerment , among much more . the Conservatives have a go at she because she be so bloody good at her job . yet again , the shadow Leader of the House come here and talk about the economy and the Budget , but another year have go by and we have still have no apology from he or his front - Bench colleague for the state they leave the country ' s finance in . let we just remind ourselves about that . they leave a huge black hole in public spending , high level of debt and borrowing , and living standard that have , for the first time in history , fall during a Parliament . he be always very selective in his use of statistic ; he do not mention that the british economy have grow fast than all other G7 country in the first half of this year , or that mortgage be now at a five - year low . after a decade and a half of poor productivity because of a lack of investment , we be now power up this country and invest in the new job of the future around the country , with job come every day . the Chancellor will set out the Budget in the usual way , but she have make clear that most of the speculation be quite honestly damaging rubbish . let we not forget that we be now come up to the three - year anniversary of the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget . I think I remember that the shadow Leader of the House be the Financial Secretary to the Treasury at that Budget . when government lose confidence and take irresponsible decision , the poor in society pay the heavy price when the economy crash . we will take absolutely no lecture from the Conservatives . the shadow Leader of the House want to talk about the performance of the Government over the summer , but he do not . let we be honest : the Leader of the Opposition do not need a reset but a full - blow resuscitation — her party spend most of the summer check whether she have a pulse or not . the truth be that her leadership , like the future of the Conservative party , be , quite frankly , at death ' s door . the SNP - lead Glasgow city council be propose to introduce a car tax on East Renfrewshire motorist , so that every time my constituent enter Glasgow city , they would have to pay a fee . could she make time for a debate on the enormous level of waste by the SNP Government on thing like Barlinnie Prison , which be 10 time over budget , or the ferry that go nowhere , so that we can tell the SNP to stop waste our money and get out of the pocket of East Renfrewshire motorist ? I know what an issue parking charge can be in city centre , such as my own . my hon . friend be right : that would make a really good topic for a debate . let we have a look at the performance of the SNP Government in Scotland . they have have the big settlement ever in Scotland . what be they do with that money , and how be they serve the people of Scotland ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister tell the leader of my party , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , that the situation in Gaza be " horrify " and " a man - make famine " . we agree . More than 60 , 000 Palestinians be estimate to have be kill in the conflict . just yesterday , five adult and a child be report to have die of malnutrition , as a direct consequence of the israeli Government ' s man - make famine and illegal restriction on aid enter the strip . it have be the deadly war ever for journalist , with at least 192 kill by israeli force , accord to the Committee to protect Journalists , and 20 israeli hostage be still think to be alive and brutally hold by Hamas terrorist . across the House , we have beg the Government to do more to help end the conflict , to save the life of the hostage and Gaza ' s civilian . indeed , it be something that constituent write to I and undoubtedly all member about on a daily basis , yet action have be excruciatingly slow . in July , the Prime Minister set a deadline for further action . he say that " the UK will recognise the state of Palestine by the United Nations General Assembly in September unless the israeli government take substantive step to end the appalling situation in Gaza , agree to a ceasefire and commit to a long - term , sustainable peace " . that deadline be fast approach : the UN General Assembly convene in less than a week . the House should surely have the right to debate and vote on this important step . recognise that Parliament will break for conference recess in less than two week , will the Leader of the House grant a full debate in Government time before then to show the strength of support for the recognition of the state of Palestine in this House ? I welcome the hon . member back from summer recess and look forward to continue to work with she on the many Committees on which we both sit . I thank she for raise that very important issue . let we be under no illusion : the situation in Gaza be unimaginably bleak . it be truly horrific , and the horrifying image and account we be see daily be sear on all our mind as we go about our business . on top of everything else , after so many civilian death and so much destruction , we be now see a man - make and wholly avoidable famine and widespread starvation . the Government be lead international effort for a peace plan . that involve the release of hostage , a ceasefire and the huge humanitarian response need to prevent further death and destruction . the recognition of Palestine as a state be an important step towards that , which be why the Prime Minister set out those plan as we approach the UNGA later this month . I have personally long support the recognition of Palestine , include last time Parliament be ask to give a view on the matter . on Monday , in a two - hour statement to the House , the Foreign Secretary update Members on the step we be take to recognise the state of Palestine and make clear that unless the israeli Government take urgent step to end the appalling situation in Gaza and commit to a long - term peace , we will make that assessment before the leader meet at the UN in New York . we will , as ever , ensure that the House have a full opportunity to continue to discuss and scrutinise these very important decision . in February , my constituent ' s son , Paul Holborn , win the man ' s section of the 777 world marathon challenge . that be seven marathon in seven continent in seven day . he top that off by then run the north pole marathon in July , and achieve grand slam status . Paul be now prepare for his next challenge . he plan to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in January , and then to pull a sled for 293 mile across the Arctic freeze tundra in February . throughout his journey , Paul have raise thousand for local charity , include £ 4 , 000 for Age UK in Sunderland . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Paul on his bravery and determination , and in wish he the good of luck for his upcoming endeavour , where he will do not just the north - east proud , but the whole UK ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Paul on his extraordinary achievement . quite honestly , I be exhaust just listen to what he be do , let alone do it myself . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the Backbench Business for next week . she will know that 50 Back Benchers be frustrate on Monday that they be not able to debate transport inequality . obviously there be important statement — we understand that — but will she consider give that debate protect time next week , so that all those who wish to contribute can do so , rather than be confine to about 30 second each if the debate be squeeze in next week ? in addition to business in the Chamber , there will be a debate on the hydrogen supply chain next Tuesday in Westminster Hall . on Thursday 11 September , there will be two debate : one on improve regulation for non - surgical aesthetic and cosmetic treatment , and one on consumer affair . on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee , I ask for early notice of the business we will be allocate in the week when we come back after the conference season , so that we can allocate time for many of the debate that be wait . next week the London underground network be likely to grind to a halt , as the trade union be call out individual section throughout that week . the last time the union go on strike , the Labour Mayor of London have to find £ 30 million to buy they off . the Transport Secretary have long experience , have be Deputy Mayor for Transport in London , but as far as I be aware , she have not utter a single word about what will happen next week . will the Leader of the House encourage the Transport Secretary to come to the House and let we know what will happen in London next week if the strike go ahead ? I know we have transport question next Thursday , but frankly that be too late . I welcome the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee back after recess , and thank he for announce the forthcoming Backbench Business . I recognise the disruption to those who want to speak on Monday in the debate on transport inequality , which be sponsor by my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , and I be pleased that have be reschedule for Thursday . I be happy to look at protect time for that , so that member can be confident about their contribution in what be obviously a well - subscribe debate . on the tube strike , nobody want to see strike action in London . it be incredibly disruptive for commuter and business . as ever , the Government — and , I be sure , the Mayor of London — call on Transport for London and the union to get back round the table so that those strike do not go ahead next week . I be become increasingly concerned about the level of fraud face individual and business in the UK . fraud account for over 40 % of all crime , from online and push payment fraud , to phishe , vishe and smishe , to name just a few scheme . I have even see example of business in my constituency be hit by various Companies House scam . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to discuss how we can tackle these challenge move forward ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise such issue . fraud be increasingly prevalent across our country and economy . it be become increasingly sophisticated , especially give advance in technology such as AI . that be why the Government continue to focus on those issue . I think it would make a very good topic for a debate . in a week when the Liberal Democrat - run Arun district council have be find to have the bad possible grading for its social housing provision — include more than half of its home be without smoke alarm — it be allege that two senior director , include one responsible for housing , have leave the council with redundancy payment total £ 350 , 000 . can the Leader of the House advise I on how good to hold the council to account in this place for the benefit of taxpayer in my constituency ? I be sorry to hear about the issue that the hon . Lady have rightly raise on behalf of her constituent . I do not know about those specific allegation , but I assure she that we take standard in local government incredibly seriously , as we take standard across all our politic seriously . we will have further legislation at some stage in this Parliament . this summer have be busy in Southend . most importantly , this weekend we host City Jam , a jam - pack live street art festival . will the Leader of the House join I in commend all the organiser who take part in produce such an incredible event , solidify our flourish cultural scene , from Lazydays festival and Summer in Nashville to victory over Japan event in Rochford and Southend , and many more ? artwork from the UK ' s large street art festival , City Jam , will line our street for a few week yet . I invite the whole House to join I in admire Southend ' s culture , and perhaps we can arrange a large ministerial visit to Southend . that sound like a great visit . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend have such a sunny summer pack full of event in his constituency . I be delighted to join he in congratulate all the organiser . start a family be a huge milestone for any couple but , crucially , it come with a huge financial hit , as parent must scale back their work life in order to care for their newborn . Ben Barnes in Keighley , the winner of good butcher across the whole of Yorkshire , have see at first hand how , despite work extra hour , one of his employee be still bad off , because his partner be on maternity pay . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the merit of extend marriage allowance so that claimant can transfer a great proportion of their personal allowance , in order to help young people take that crucial step of start a family ? can I pass on my congratulation to that employee of local butcher Ben Barnes on the birth of his first child ? I be really pleased to hear the hon . Gentleman advocate so strongly for strong maternity and paternity leave and pay ; that have not always be what we have hear from the conservative party and some of his colleague . we be committed to strengthen right and support pay . just this week , we bring in the free childcare package , which will be worth £ 7 , 500 a year to family that qualify , and we be extend that far . I look forward to work with the hon . gentleman on strengthen it in the come month . More than 80 colleague be bob . unless member be short in their contribution , they be deny other the opportunity to get in . many parameter of the fair funding review will address social injustice in our community , but place like York will lose out significantly . it be already the lowest - fund unitary authority in the country , the Lib Dem council previously spend all the reserve and we can not afford to make further cut . will the Leader of the House ensure that local authority that be go to lose out under the fair funding review can meet the Minister and have discussion before the parameter be publish ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue around fair funding . I know this be a really important matter for a number of colleague . she will be aware that the Deputy Prime Minister have ensure a record local government funding settlement , but the hon . Lady be absolutely right : the devil be in the detail and we need to ensure that funding follow need . I will certainly arrange for she to have a meeting with the Minister . we all deal with Department for Work and Pensions casework through our team , but in North East Fife we be see a transition to universal credit that mean that vulnerable constituent — often those with dyslexia or learn disability — be really struggle . they be not be offer the enhanced support journey , and all be suffer due to department not communicate and miscalculation . can we have a debate in Government time on this issue , which I be sure affect mp from across the House ? I be sorry to hear about the case in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . I be sure the issue will be familiar to other hon . member , especially those represent constituency in Scotland . I be happy to facilitate a response from the Minister , so that we can make sure that the necessary step be in place to alleviate the situation . library be vital space for learning , inclusion and community . as Lindley library in my constituency mark 150 year , we celebrate its role in enrich life and preserve local heritage . I hope the Leader of the House will join I in wish the library a happy birthday and every success for its open day next week . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can well support library , like the one in Lindley , to grow and adapt for future generation ? library be vital to our community and high street , and they provide people with access to knowledge and information , as they have do in decade go by and will do in decade in the future . I support all my hon . friend ' s effort to support Lindley library in his constituency . a month ago , I meet Oliver Robinson from the British Trout Association . the association have produce an excellent report on the trout farming industry in the UK , but Oliver be struggle to get engagement from Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Ministers . I try to ask the Secretary of State about this in DEFRA question early , but it would be much appreciated if the Leader of the House could make representation and try to set up that vital conversation . I be happy to help facilitate a conversation with the relevant Minister about trout farm . under the Conservatives , 53 % of bus be cut in my constituency , include the SL1 tram link bus , leave many of my constituent unable to go to work or school in Sheffield . thank to our well bus Bill and the work do by our labour mayor , Oliver Coppard , our bus be be bring back under public control . will the Leader of the House advise I how I can work with Ministers , our labour mayor and Sheffield city council in order to reinstate the vital SL1 tram link bus ? I be sorry to hear that the SL1 route be scrap under the previous Government . my hon . friend make a very strong case for our bus Bill and all the action that we be take to ensure that bus serve their local community , and be affordable and reliable . when such power be use , we see a massive increase in the use of bus . as I have say many time in this place , at Dounreay we have a highly skilled workforce , a licensed nuclear site and a local population who support the nuclear industry . Rolls - Royce have tell I that it be very interested in place its prototype advanced modular reactor at Dounreay , and yet we know that the Scottish National party Government in Edinburgh will block that with their planning power . what advice do the Leader of the House have for I ? will she facilitate a meeting with Ministers to try to get rid of this roadblock ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman be a strong advocate for job and business in his constituency . he know that this Government be commit to new nuclear power and to the most ambitious nuclear programme in a generation . I be really sorry to hear that the SNP Government be , as ever , likely to set themselves against this new investment and against new job opportunity in Scotland . frankly , that be a pattern that we be see time after time , and I join he in call on they to look again . it be a very busy summer recess in Newcastle - under - Lyme , with 70 engagement in 34 day ; my office be delighted to put I on the train on Monday . one of the highlight be attend the 50th anniversary celebration of the Newcastle - under - Lyme branch of the Royal Air Forces Association . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the branch , its officer and its volunteer for the care and compassion that they show to our vet and their family , and send they a happy anniversary ? as someone who follow my hon . friend on social medium , I know that he have have a very busy recess , as have many colleague ; I have look on jealously at many of the visit that people have be do over the summer recess . I join he in congratulate the Royal Air Forces Association branch in his constituency on all that it do . I will be short , as I already be . can we have a debate about delay in obtain drive test ? there be a grow problem with unscrupulous operator use bot to sweep up month ' worth of test then sell they back to very frustrated parent and student at a profit . the Driving and Vehicle Standards Agency seem to be in denial about this issue . can we have a debate in Parliament and try to fix this problem ? as ever , the right hon . Gentleman be a very big presence with his short question . he raise a topic that I know we all get many email and complaint about . the Secretary of State for Transport have give an update to the House on these issue , and we be deliver 10 , 000 additional driving test . the right hon . Gentleman raise an important issue about how bot and other be use technology to secure those test , and I will ensure that he get a full response . will my right hon . friend join I in thank Tina Simpson and her team at the Loco Centre in Netherfield , as well as Nathan Kenney and Mapperley all Stars , for their brilliant work this summer in deliver the holiday activity and food programme in Gedling ? will she also welcome its very much - need extension for three year by this Labour Government ? that be the hon . member ' s first business question . that be my hon . friend ' s first business question ! I welcome he to the delight of business question . they be normally follow by a compliment to I and an invitation to the constituency — I be wait for that before I get up to reply . I will certainly join my hon . friend in thank Tina , Nathan and all those who provide such wonderful holiday facility for child . regardless of the fact that there be no legal requirement on the Government of the United Kingdom to transfer ownership of the British Indian Ocean Territories to Mauritius , the Government have challenge the Opposition ' s figure about the cost of that exercise . before the debate on Tuesday , will the Government place in the Library of the House of Commons detailed estimate of the cost to the british taxpayer ? as ever , alongside legislation we publish all the necessary document , include the costing , which we have be transparent about . I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that before the election his government embark on 11 round of negotiation ; they know that the Government need to resolve this issue in order to protect our defence and security for generation to come . I be pleased that we have manage to get that deal across the line . last weekend , a group of volunteer launch a fundraising activity to put on a new annual show host a hoedown in Epworth . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the rootin ' tootin ' team the good of luck in whip - crack away on future event to raise loot to put on the first Isle country show in the year - haw 2026 ? that be how it be do ! my hon . friend be once the master of Doncaster airport , and he be now the master of business question pun . I absolutely join he in wish the team the good of luck . I call Victoria Collins — follow that ! I be afraid I can not follow that , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have a grow number of constituent who have reach out with concern about cancer care , include one family in Berkhamsted in which the father , who have since sadly pass away , struggle to access consistent cancer care support and even find it hard to get hold of his consultant , while the mother - in - law , who live elsewhere , have access to Macmillan nurse who make a world of difference . will the Leader of the House help to secure a debate to address this postcode lottery in the national cancer plan ? this be not the first time that we have hear at business question about the postcode lottery that remain when it come to cancer care , particularly child ' s cancer care . I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue , and I will raise it with the Secretary of State . we have announce extra funding and will publish the national cancer plan later this year , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State come to the House to update we . I wonder whether my right hon . friend be as shocked as I be that a Member of this House go to another country and , in front of its Parliament , start to run this country down . what be the point of be elect to this place if member be not prepared to bring these issue to the Floor of the House and have they debate ? will my right hon . friend write to member and remind they of the opportunity they have to raise these important issue so that we can scrutinise they in a proper way , rather than scuttle off to another country and act in a totally unpatriotic way ? [ hon . member : " where be they ? " ] member ask , " where be they ? " I think Reform member be busy do each other ' s iron — I do not know whether people have see that . my hon . friend be absolutely right . for a Member of Parliament who claim to be act in the british interest to go to another country to suggest that tariff on this country be increase and that step be take to reduce job opportunity here be not just unpatriotic , but anti - british . follow on from that question , reform - lead Leicestershire county council and Harborough district council have make a series of highly controversial decision impact on the people of Lutterworth and the surround village . do the Leader of the House agree that Freedom of Information Act request that be make by constituent to public body should be answer , and will she help organise a meeting between I and the relevant Minister to discuss the lack of answer from those public body ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . we have see member of this House from the Reform party go around the world savage our right to free speech in this country , yet the council they run be not prepared to answer question on free speech . they be block local newspaper from scrutinise their work and , as the hon . Gentleman say , they be not open themselves up to freedom of information request . I will ensure he get a ministerial response . over the summer recess , I volunteer with the junior Parkrun in Desborough . it be fantastic to see child excited about exercise , and to be there to celebrate Rose and Luna get their half - marathon wristband . I be especially strike by the dedication of the volunteer who make it possible every week in Desborough and Kettering and across the whole country . will the Leader of the House join I in thank parkrun volunteer around the country , and provide time for a debate on community - lead initiative that promote physical activity ? the Parkrun and junior Parkrun initiative be fantastic at engage people in daily activity to keep they healthy and at bring they together , tackle other issue such as loneliness . I join my hon . friend in thank all the organiser for their involvement . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise Gretna Green in my constituency as not just the wedding capital of the UK , but the wedding capital of Europe ? it be particularly popular with couple from the north - west , and obviously , any MP who be still look to be we d would be make most welcome there . however , many of the rule and regulation around civil ceremony be arcane and bureaucratic . while there must always be proper check , surely simplicity , spontaneity , innovation and joy must also be important . as such , will the Leader of the House bring forward a debate on modernise marriage law ? I be not sure whether any of the couple I mention at the beginning of this question session get marry in Gretna Green — maybe they can declare it if they do — but we be all of course very familiar with it as the iconic place for wedding in this country . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about simplify some of the bureaucracy and make sure we remember what marriage be all about . I will get in touch with the relevant Minister on his behalf and see what we can do . next Wednesday be World Suicide Prevention Day . People can be nervous of talk about suicide , but it affect so many people in our community . this year , Samaritans be share this message : " if you think someone might be suicidal , take action , interrupt their thought and show they you care . " there be event take place across Parliament next week , but will the Leader of the House join I in encourage member to participate in next Thursday ' s debate on suicide prevention , which have be announce today by the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) ? my hon . friend be a passionate and long - stand campaigner around those issue , and she have raise they with I many time . I thank she for all the work she do raise the issue around suicide and suicide prevention . it be often an uncomfortable and difficult issue to talk about , and she lead from the front in make sure that people feel that they can do so . I certainly join she in encourage member to participate . Charlie Dodds from Driffield in my constituency be just one year old and suffer from a rare mitochondrial condition . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to his parent , Harrison and Ellie , for the £ 35 , 000 they have raise for research into this condition ? will she commit Government time to a debate on NHS funding for rare condition ? I certainly join the hon . member in congratulate and thank the parent of Charlie — Harrison and Ellie — for their phenomenal fundraising effort . rare disease such as the one he describe be so difficult to tackle . that be why we need focus on they and extra funding and research , and I will ensure that he get a full response . the Leader of the House might remember that back in March I inform the House about the search for funding and support for an incredible young man from Beckenham , Lucas De Gouveia . at just 14 , he be already represent Great Britain in wheelchair tennis . I be delighted to update the House today that , work together , we have secure sponsorship for Lucas from company include easyjet to help he with the additional cost of compete internationally . together , we meet the Sports Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , to raise the profile of wheelchair tennis and para - sport . yesterday , Lucas win the quarter - final in the US Open wheelchair single . he be the young competitor in the tournament . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the Lawn Tennis Association and everyone who have support Lucas , and wish he the very good of luck in the semi - final ? what a wonderful story . I know that raise that issue in business question help the hon . gentleman to secure that funding and that sponsorship , so that Lucas could go to the US Open and compete . what fantastic news that he win his quarter - final and will now be in the semi - final . I join the hon . gentleman in thank the Lawn Tennis Association , easyjet and all those who have make it possible . the Government ' s decision to proscribe Palestine Action have cause a grow legal , political and police crisis . a judicial review have be grant . the police be struggle to deal with the sheer volume of people be arrest , and the UK ' s reputation have be seriously harm . do the Leader of the House recognise that this rush proscription , and the cynical decision to bundle it together with two other clearly terrorist organisation , be bad politic and bad process ? we should have a chance to revisit the decision , learn from this debacle and seriously consider the important human right implication . there be an extremely high bar for proscribe any organisation , and that decision be not take lightly . it be take on very strong advice about the activity of Palestine Action . those activity be increasingly severe and , with increase frequency , incredibly damaging . that be not to say that people can not peacefully protest in support of Palestine or in support of many other organisation that support the palestinian cause . as I say early , I strongly support recognition of Palestine and support the palestinian cause , but that be not to say that we should support organisation that seek to cause real problem in this country . the return to school in Bury North have see the Derby and the Elton high school introduce smartphone ban . I congratulate the principal Helen Hubert and Jonathan Wilton on their leadership in do so . like many of my labour colleague , through my smartphone - free school campaign I have hear from hundred of parent , teacher and pupil . their overwhelming view be that smartphone use damage learning , concentration and behaviour while pile pressure on child to be permanently online . will my right hon . friend grant time to debate Government plan to help school manage smartphone , so that every child can learn free from distraction and in a happy state ? I thank my hon . friend and a number of other colleague for continue to campaign on and raise these important issue . as parent and constituency mp , we all see the damage that social medium and unmitigated use of smartphone can cause to teenager . he be absolutely right to highlight that school already have the power to confiscate smartphone , and I be really pleased to hear that a couple of school in his constituency have do so . we will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the guidance that we have issue , but I implore school and parent to take a much more proactive approach in monitor what child be up to on their smartphone . order . may I urge colleague to keep their question short , and the Leader of the House to keep her answer just as short ? the Leader of the House will be aware of the outrage across the country regard illegal immigration , asylum hotel and now the huge increase in the number of house in multiple occupation . this be happen on a large scale in Romford , with a massive boom in HMOs . my constituent want to see an end to illegal immigration and the housing of asylum seeker in local hotel . however , transfer the problem to road and neighbourhood , and put family and child at risk in residential street , be not acceptable . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate on the Floor of the House on the need to adopt an urgent strategy to end the use of hotel and hmo for this purpose ? I share the frustration , concern and indeed anger in many part about the huge use of asylum hotel , and now HMOs , in deal with the asylum backlog , which be leave by the hon . Gentleman ' s party after it be in power . indeed , I remember the shadow Home Secretary and the shadow Justice Secretary go round the country open these hotel and allow this to happen . they leave we with a huge backlog . we need to take all necessary step to bring down illegal migration , deal with these issue and close the hotel . that be what we want to do , but as the hon . Gentleman say , we can not just make the problem dissipate into other part of the community . that be why we be work to tackle it . do my right hon . friend agree that whereas the leader of Reform , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , be yet again in the United States — speak perhaps a little too freely about freedom of speech in this country , and do Britain down — this Government , lead by the Prime Minister , be build Britain up , include through a very welcome £ 10 billion deal to supply Norway with five Type 26 frigate ? will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the supply chain that will support it , include BAE Systems in Scotland , which will build the ship , and GE Vernova in Rugby , which will supply the hybrid - electric propulsion system , mean quality job all across our great country ? my hon . friend remind we that the effect of the huge contract with Norway to build frigate in this country will be dissipate right through our economy and into constituency such as my hon . friend ' s across the country . we should be celebrate the international agreement that we have , not go abroad and do this country down . I be disappoint that the Leader of the House , when she be celebrate summer moment , do not mention our Lionesses ' amazing victory in defend their european title . in a less positive moment over the summer , the Metropolitan police announce the closure of Twickenham police station ' s front counter as part of plan to close half of London ' s police counter and reduce hour at many other . this come despite Sadiq Khan ' s 2024 manifesto commitment to maintain a 24 - hour police counter in every borough , and Richmond borough will now be leave without one . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the Met police ' s funding for the forthcoming year and beyond , especially as the closure come on the back of the slashing of the Royal Parks police and our school police liaison officer ? I thank the hon . Lady for remind I about the brilliant Lionesses ' triumph in the Euros early in the summer . I take this opportunity to congratulate they on that . the hon . Lady raise the important issue of neighbourhood police . community policing have be hugely diminish over the last 10 to 15 year , and we be determined to fix it . the nature of how policing be do have change , but we be provide the funding and the additional police officer for community and neighbourhood police to flourish in constituency like her . Madam Deputy Speaker , I congratulate you on your very successful ice cream - inspire tour of your constituency during the recess . I recently meet a constituent of mine , Lou , who be part of a group that develop Turning Point and Learning Disability England ' s information pack on " do not attempt Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation " . we know from LeDeR — learn disability mortality review — report and other source that too many learning disabled and autistic people die with a " do not resuscitate " order in place . will the Leader of the House please arrange for the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to make a statement on the action that have be take to ensure that learn disabled people and their family be fully involve in and fully informed of any DNR decision ? my hon . friend rightly raise a really important issue , which she have explain well than I could , about the challenge of dnr , particularly for vulnerable people , and I hope that those involve will have listen to her question . I will ensure that she get a full ministerial response and that the issue be look at . in December 2021 , part of the roof of Kirkham bath be blow off during storm condition , leave Kirkham and all the surround rural area without access to public bath . since the operator be unable to fund the repair , Fylde council have recently step in to purchase the bath for £ 1 and be embark on a project to refurbish they . I be very grateful that the Leader of the House have agree to come to Fylde to have an ice cream and look at project in the St Annes area . I know I would be test her generosity too far if I invite she to Fylde for a swim together , so could we instead have a debate in Government time on how the £ 400 million of grassroot funding that the Government have announce can be use to support swimming bath in rural area ? I be very happy to have an ice cream , but I be not sure that the hon . member ' s constituent be quite ready to see I in a swimming costume just yet . I be pleased to hear that Kirkham bath have be save and will now be refurbish . that be exactly why we have put the money into grassroots sport , but it be also why we have give local government such a big settlement , because thing such as Kirkham bath be so important to our community . I call Apsana Begum . take your time . in ask my question , I will update the House on the extraordinary situation that I continue to face in relation to my safety and security . it be just over a year since my ex - husband stand against I at the general election , after he be expel from the Labour party last year for his treatment of I in a campaign of ongoing post - separation harassment and abuse — excuse I — with his stated aim of expose who I really be and get even with I . I continue to endure this on an ongoing basis , alongside the relentless attempt to unjustly remove I as an MP by a clique of his associate , who be still active and be seek to stand for office at next year ' s election . the impact of all this be devastating and the wall of institutional gaslighting be incredibly chilling . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on domestic abuse and public life to enable we to explore the duty of care that should be place on employer and political party to ensure that survivor of domestic abuse be not expose to further harassment in their role , include those of we undertake public service ? I have be work with mps from all political party to call for this . thank you . hear , hear . I thank the hon . member once again for her bravery and her powerful testimony . I know many of we continue to be appal by the experience she have have over a number of year in the campaign bring by her abusive ex - husband and what he have try to do in undermine her capacity to be an effective Member of Parliament , which she continue to be . I hear her call today for the step that need to be take to ensure that this can not happen again , and particularly that it can not happen again to she . we have an election Bill come to the House soon , which will look at issue such as the suitability of candidate and their behaviour towards other candidate , and I be sure there will be ample opportunity for we all to support she in raise some of these issue during the passage of that Bill . may I express my sympathy ? no woman in this place will not feel deeply horrified and touch by what we have just hear . I will not invite the Leader of the House to visit portal paper mill in my constituency , although she should because it be an amazing company that be 300 year old and manufacture security - grade paper . it produce passport for country across the world , but absurdly not our own , which be produce by a french company abroad . may we have a statement from the Home Office on the security implication if future contract do not require primary production and personalisation of UK passport to take place here in the UK ? I think we all remember when the previous Government give the contract for our passport production to a french company in the post - Brexit era . we all find it rather strange at the time . this Government be commit to buy british and to british procurement , and we will bring forward legislation and other mean of ensure that that can well happen . over the summer recess , two old Sikh taxi driver be attack outside Wolverhampton train station , one of whom be a constituent of mine . although I commend british Transport police for make arrest quickly , meet I and acknowledge that the attack be racially motivated , many people , include I , be shock and horrify by the nature of the attack , which have make the local community feel vulnerable , particularly in light of the far - right rhetoric that have recently be spread . will the Leader of the House arrange a meeting with the relevant Minister so that I can reassure my constituent that the Government treat hate crime with the utmost seriousness and will do all in their power to tackle racial prejudice and discrimination ? absolutely , and I thank my hon . friend for raise that awful case today . as he say , the Government take hate crime incredibly seriously . no one should ever be a victim of hatred because of their race or religion . we need to combat and stand up to rhetoric and campaign that can make people feel insecure in their community , and I look forward to work with he to that end . in December , I ask the Leader of the House for a debate on the Environment Agency ' s failure to adequately dredge Somerset ' s river and maintain our drainage network . the EA have now announce that it will withdraw entirely from main river maintenance in Somerset . my constituent be concerned that without proper maintenance we may see a repeat of the devastating 2013 - 14 flood . may I repeat my request to she to find Government time for a debate on the Environment Agency ' s failure to fulfil its duty ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue again . it be not the first time that I have hear of problem in the Environment Agency and about its not follow through on the commitment that it have give . I will ensure that he get a ministerial response , but we be determined that the Environment Agency and other should be hold to account for the action they take , and that they should take more responsibility for prevention . the passage of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 into law be a great achievement of the Government ' s first year , and the completion of the Employment Rights Bill will be another . as we get into the business of take the private rail franchise and their employee back into the public sector , it be vital that the transfer of undertaking process fully engage trade union , fully protect employment right and , as we bring in private franchise with vary term , level those up to a national gold standard . may we have a statement on how the Government be prepare for that transition ? my hon . friend be right to say that bring rail back into public ownership and our Employment Rights Bill be flagship policy of this Government , and I be particularly proud of they . we will ensure that as we take rail back into public ownership , it be do in the good interest of passenger and ensure that staff be well look after and do not take industrial action , as they do under the previous Government . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . after the insolvency of Allied Steel and Wire , money that worker pay into their pension scheme before April 1997 be not fully inflation - proof through the financial assistance scheme . the previous Work and Pensions Committee recommend that the UK Government legislate to provide pre - 1997 indexation . I have table two amendment to the Pension Schemes Bill to do exactly that . can the Leader of the House allow Government time to update the House on action to rectify that scandal and other , such as the British Coal staff superannuation scheme scandal ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise another important issue on behalf of her constituent . that Bill be currently on the Committee corridor ; when it return to this Chamber , she will be able to raise those important matter . in the meantime , I will ensure that she get a ministerial response . british passenger railway turn 200 this month , so let we give it the proper birthday present it deserve : european rail in the north . can we have a debate on use disuse High Speed 2 land for a Leeds to Lille line , which could transform the visitor economy in Leeds , Manchester , York and beyond ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on become a new dad early this summer . I thank he once again for be such a brilliant champion for proper investment in our northern rail and connectivity , which be absolutely vital to the rebirth of our region . Sea Palling in my constituency have little mobile signal , and its emergency siren be remove 16 year ago . ahead of the weekend ' s emergency alert test , I ask the Cabinet Office what it would do for community such as Sea Palling . we go back and forth three time , and I be really frustrated that the answer be to knock on door — in a rural , isolated community that be susceptible to rapid tidal flooding . will the Leader of the House convey to the Cabinet Office the sense from people in Sea Palling that in community such as theirs , the Government just do not get it ? I be sorry to hear about the response the hon . Gentleman have have . we be work with telecommunication company to reduce poor mobile signal — particularly in rural area , which be not an easy task — and we have the share rural network deal . however , I will ensure that he get a well ministerial response to his question . my constituent — like your , I be sure , Madam Deputy Speaker — want to have ready access to cash and banking facility , but when the Lloyds bank in Stoke town close its door later this year , the town will have no banking facility . the Link assessment have determine that the three sub - post office just under a mile from the town centre be sufficient to provide service . may we have a debate in Government time , or a statement from the relevant Minister , on the criterion for access to banking hub so that , as the Government roll out more , we can ensure that they hit urban community as well as rural one ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue , which be raise with I all the time in business question . I know that there be nothing more concern to a local community than the closure of a bank or post office on the high street or in the town centre , know what that will mean for access cash . I will ensure that my she get a full response about the roll - out of banking hub . over the summer , a constituent who be a mortgage adviser come to I with concern about so - call conditional selling by estate agent , where prospective home buyer feel pressurised to take the estate agent ' s in - house mortgage rather than risk lose out on a house . this practice breach the Estate Agents Act 1979 . it have be raise in investigation by the Financial Times and " Panorama " , which suggest that the practice be common . could the Leader of the House point I to the Minister responsible so that we can have a discussion ? perhaps we could have a debate on this matter in Government time . I will certainly ensure that the hon . Lady get a discussion with the relevant Minister on the issue of conditional selling , which sound like something that should concern we all . this Labour Government have commit £ 13 million to tackle food poverty , support by an expansion of free school meal and a drive to get fresh produce from farm to family ' table . after 14 year of tory economic failure , too many family be still struggle and food bank remain indispensable . in Leyton and Wanstead , a much - love food bank , pl84u , recently face eviction , but thank to the swift action of Waltham Forest council , especially Councillors Grace Williams and Ahsan Khan , it have a new home — I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) will be pleased to invite the Leader of the House to visit Saira and her team . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on how we support food bank and community aid to secure premise while this government get on with the work to tackle the Tory failure that mean they must remain ? order . we need much short question , please . food poverty remain a huge blight on our country . this Government be absolutely committed to tackle it , which be why we have extend free breakfast club and introduce this huge expansion in free school meal , which be something I be sure we can all be proud of . I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . in the month of August alone , across our country mosque as well as woman , child and family have be subject to unacceptable level of Islamophobic abuse and attack — from a young muslim mother with her young child be abuse in a park in Yorkshire for simply wear a niqab , to a young autistic man in Manchester be threaten to have his throat slit and tell to go to his mosque . do the Leader of the House agree that some language and rhetoric use by some member both in this Chamber and in some medium outlet fuel this hatred on the street ? give the ever - increase number of attack , will she remind member of our responsibility in our use of language , and will she urge the Government to expediate the ongoing consultation and urgently adopt a robust definition of Islamophobia ? the rise in Islamophobia , which we have all see in our constituency — I know I have see it in mine — be absolutely unacceptable . hate crime itself be unacceptable , and we need to call it out and root it out . we have the independent working group , which be soon to advise Ministers on the definition of Islamophobia , and we have a wide action plan to tackle the issue . the hon . member be right to say that we should all be mindful of the language we use and the impact it might have . at the peak of summer this year , at the height of tourism season , beach in Kinghorn and Burntisland be close because sewage spill make the water unsafe to enter . my constituent have be let down by the SNP Government ' s failure to invest in our sewerage network and by publicly own Scottish Water , whose chief executive say — astonishingly — that concern should not be overblown . do the Leader of the House agree that clean water be the least that the people of Fife deserve , and will she make time for a debate on this subject ? I be really sorry to hear that the beach in the hon . member ' s constituency have be close . it be unacceptable that sewage have be flow into the sea around her constituency . as she say , the Scottish Government be responsible for Scottish Water . they should get their act together and follow what we have be do in England . yet again this summer the stunning Dorset heathland in my constituency be devastate by a fire at Holt Heath . the National Fire Chiefs Council say that before this and the devastating North York moor fire , this year ' s number be 668 % high than last year , and 33 % high than the high year . I have write to all 17 fire service that come to our aid . we can not carry on like this , so will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on emergency resilience against climate - relate crisis ? the hon . member be right to highlight that , as the climate change rapidly , unfortunately we be go to see more wildfire in the summer and more flooding in the winter . we be fund a national resilience wildfire adviser and look at how we can work with stakeholder and everybody else to tackle this issue and build our resilience . for 16 year , people in Burntwood in my constituency have have to visit their gp in portacabin in the car park of a leisure centre . the site be close in March 2024 , but there be no replacement and 5 , 000 patient be distribute to other surgery . no one agree with that decision , but we be tell that all would be well because the Conservative - control county council would have a replacement build and ready to operate by the end of this year . that council fail , and now the Reform - control county council be fail too . it have not even submit a planning application , and there be no chance that it will keep its promise to the people of Burntwood and open the centre this year . will you join I in tell that council to get their thumb out and get this do ? no , I will not be join you . obviously you mean the Leader of the House . I be happy to join my hon . friend in tell Staffordshire county council — which I hear a lot of complaint about in business question , I have to say — to get its act together and get this new GP surgery open so it can serve his constituent . the people of Whitchurch in my constituency will be quite pleased to see the response to my write question regard the Access for all railway fund , which show that £ 280 million have be allocate for the spending review period , but they will be really keen to know when we be get step - free access at Whitchurch station . may we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Transport to outline how this money will be spend and , critically , where and when ? if the Leader of the House would like to come to Whitchurch from her own constituency , she could experience the footbridge and lack of step - free access herself . I thank the hon . member for raise the issue of step - free access at her local station — this issue be raise with I all the time at business question . I be sure that a debate on the topic would be very well subscribe , if she want one , but I will ensure that she get a ministerial response . I be pleased to hear about her write question . it be fantastic to see Derby buzzing over the summer when over three day 40 , 000 visitor be in the city visit the great gathering as we bring together the world ' s large ever collection of historical and modern rolling stock . will my right hon . friend join I in acknowledge the huge effort make by volunteer not just from Derby but from all over the UK to pull off that spectacular event ? do she agree that , with the arrival of great British Railways ' headquarters in Derby , we can build on this great heritage and look for a bright future in rail manufacturing ? it might not be quite an oasis concert , but I be sure that the railway gathering in Derby that my hon . friend describe be a fantastic event to champion the rail industry in his constituency . I be really pleased that great British Railways will be base in Derby so that we can continue to provide the job of the future . last Sunday I visit the River Snail , a chalk stream in my constituency , and be horrify to see not a river but a dried and crack river bed . our chalk stream , which be a really important part of our biodiversity , be under increase threat from climate change . could the Leader of the House make Government time available for a debate on how we will protect our precious chalk stream ? I know how important chalk stream be to our biodiversity and to many of our rural community . we will bring forward further plan about how we can secure our waterway in all their form , and I will ensure that the hon . member get an update from the relevant Minister . whether they be about the much need eastern link road , the rail link to Milton Keynes or the many traffic hotspot , so many of the conversation I have with my resident come back to the same issue of our poor infrastructure and the impact it have on people ' s quality of life . the Government ' s announcement this week of £ 1 . 4 million of investment into transport funding for Buckinghamshire be therefore hugely welcome , open up the potential to decrease congestion , improve pedestrian safety and much more . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome that funding ? will she urge Buckinghamshire council to use it to give Aylesbury the boost we need ? I join my hon . friend in welcome that extra funding for Buckinghamshire and in her call for the council to use it wisely to decrease congestion and support commuter in her constituency . during recess , at an event to promote the new Avon and Somerset victim service , concern be raise with I about the delay in publish a new hate crime action plan for England and Wales to replace the one that expire in 2020 . will the Leader of the House tell we when a new plan will be publish ? if not , will she agree to raise that with the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention as a matter of urgency ? we be determined to tackle all form of hatred and division and to take action on hate crime . it have be a topic for much discussion in our Crime and Policing Bill , but I will ensure that the hon . member get a ministerial response about the timeliness of the new action plan . over the summer recess , I meet the Shore collective : a group of hospitality business in my constituency that have come together — it include Tapa , which recently win the good local restaurant award in the Scotsman ' s 2025 scran award . many business like Tapa be struggle with rise energy and raw ingredient cost . will the Leader of the House join I in go to Tapa — obviously — and congratulate it ? will she outline what work minister be do together across the Government to support such business ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate that collective in her constituency , and I be always happy to get an invitation to a hospitality venue . I be well aware of the challenge for the hospitality sector relate to rise cost , access to staff , still deal with covid repayment and so on . that be why the Government be support hospitality by take action on business rate and on skill as well as in many other way . I be sure that would make a good topic for a debate . the Environment Agency have issue notice of its permanent withdrawal from main river maintenance to riparian owner in Somerset and North Somerset . the Leader of the House and Ministers in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will recall the devastation cause by flood in 2012 , 2013 and 2014 . regular maintenance be essential to allow floodwater to escape from what be a man - make landscape in the Somerset level and moor . will she ask the DEFRA Secretary to insist that the Environment Agency rescind its withdrawal notice until such a time as locally all the flood risk management group , the internal drainage board , the South West Association of Drainage Authorities and every interested party have a chance at least to meet , discuss and plan a sustainable and funded solution for the future , and that , importantly , it carry on maintain the main river in the meantime ? winter be come , and rainfall with it . this be about the third complaint about the Environment Agency in today ' s session , so perhaps colleague should get together to try and get a broad debate on those issue . we have announce the large programme on flood in history , and we have our flood resilience taskforce , but the hon . Lady be right to say that all partner need to play their part . I will ensure she receive a proper response . over the course of the summer , like many in the House , I have have a chance to meet so many of the volunteer across my constituency , from organisation such as North Tyneside Disability Forum , Seghill Food Hub , Rape Crisis Tyneside and Northumberland , Age UK and Forward Assist , every one of they improve and change life every single day . will the Leader of the House join I in thank they , and may we have a debate in Government time to recognise the importance of volunteer and the difference that they make ? I know how busy my hon . friend have be over the recess , meet many of her constituent and celebrate the volunteer and the community that she represent . I join she in do that this morning . over the summer , elderly and frail constituent in village across my North Cornwall constituency raise with I how difficult it be to travel to their near district hospital . they rely on infrequent public transport and can face journey of more than three hour to Treliske , three and a half hour to Derriford and up to six hour to Barnstaple hospital . will the Leader of the House please commit to a debate in Government time on establish more district hospital in area , such as Bodmin , that really need they ? the hon . Gentleman raise an issue about not only health service and where they be locate , but access in constituency such as his to affordable and reliable bus and transportation . this government be tackle both of those after year of devastation in our health service and our bus . after 14 year of the Conservatives , I hope that his constituent will start to feel the benefit soon . I pay tribute to the firefighter , farmer , volunteer and all the business , such as Woodsmith , that have come together to tackle the fire in North Yorkshire . will the Leader of the House join I in give thank to everyone who have come out to tackle those blaze ? what support can be provide to those who have come together to do so ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those who have come together to tackle the wildfire in Yorkshire that we have all be hear about . as our climate change every day , we will see more wildfire and more flooding . that be why we have set up the national resilience wildfire adviser and will take further step on that . I look forward to work with my hon . friend in the come month . recently , I have have meeting with AI technology company and medical professional , see how AI can help speed up cancer diagnosis and make the NHS workforce much more efficient , ultimately save life . however , hospital system and staff be not yet ready to start utilise new AI system in diagnostic , so will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time so we can discuss a framework that hospital manager can adopt to implement AI diagnosis effectively and help save life ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the huge opportunity that AI and technology present , especially in term of diagnostic and healthcare service . he be also right to highlight that the real challenge to that be adoption and diffusion through our health system . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be commit to deliver that by work across Government , and I be sure he will continue to keep the House update . I recently meet Vicki Quarton from Touchstones child bereavement service in Cookhill in my constituency and hear about the incredible work that she and her team be do to support young people who have lose a love one — often a parent . will the Leader of the House consider a debate in Government time on how we can ensure that local group such as Touchstones get the support they need to continue to help child affect by loss , especially when so many fall victim to violence against woman and girl ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Touchstones and all its work for bereaved child and especially those who be bereave due to domestic violence . its work be vital in support child through probably the most difficult time of their life and I thank he for raise that . I sit on the Joint Committee on Human Rights . one of the issue concern I be what scrutiny and accountability the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s new code of practice and guidance will have from this House . my understanding be that it will be lay before the House as a negative statutory instrument , mean that unless the Leader of the Opposition push for time and scrutiny , there may be none . will the Leader of the House outline what opportunitie member will get to scrutinise that guidance when it be publish ? I know the new guidance from the ehrc be of great interest to many member across this House ; it be something that I get many email and correspondence about myself . a parliamentary process will sit alongside that , but I will absolutely ensure that there be appropriate time to debate and discuss these issue , which I know be important to the House . local community councillor in Cathcart have long campaign for step - free access to Cathcart train station . I welcome the investment in the spending review , but I would like to see some of that money come to Cathcart station . do the Leader of the House agree that we should have a debate on train station accessibility , and would she help facilitate a meeting with the Minister ? train station accessibility be an important issue to many member . I be sure that if he join together with some of the Opposition Members who have raise that issue with I today , it would attract the interest of the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . I wish to raise concern report of an increase in Taliban crackdown on woman in Afghanistan . those include widespread instance of violent beating , arbitrary arrest for so - call non - compliance with extreme dress code , total ban on woman ' s education and the forced closure of woman - lead business . will the Leader of the House urge the Minister responsible to make a statement outline what concrete step the Government be take to ensure the lifting of restriction on afghan woman and girl and their human right ? I welcome back the hon . gentleman after the recess . he have not miss one of my business question . I notice that he have speak the most in Parliament of any Member — apart from I , actually . I now have a new title , which be that I have speak more than the hon . member for Strangford — long may that continue . he raise an important issue around the treatment of woman and girl in Afghanistan , and this Government continue to condemn the appalling action there . we will do all we can to ensure that our view be hear . church across the country be struggle to manage their estate , with many building go up for sale . last Sunday , I attend a service of union , with the Bo ' ness Old Kirk and St Andrew ' s parish church unite to form the new Bo ' ness parish church . while there can be sadness at leave a church behind , there be much hope and faith as the parishioner move forward together . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the congregation and the minister , wish they the very good in this new chapter ? I know how hard it be for people to see church go in their area and to transition to go to a new church . she raise an important issue , and I will ensure that she get a response . the Sycamore adventure centre in Upper Gornal have be a lifeline for child , include those with special educational need and disability , for over 15 year . yet despite pledge funding for it for five year in April in a public Q & A , the Conservative - lead council be now force it to be privatise , with uncapped entry cost , reduce play area and hour , and no proper consultation . child face lose vital access to this centre . do the Leader of the House share my outrage and will she grant time for a debate on protect community asset ? I be sorry to hear of the action of her conservative council in her area in relation to the Sycamore adventure centre . we have the second reading of the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill this week , and we will give more local community like hers the power to take over such provision as she describe . last month , I join the staff and student of Worden academy in Leyland as the GCSE result be announce . ten year ago , that school face a challenging future . this year , it just deliver its good ever set of GCSE result , give those young people the good possible start in life . will the Leader of the House join I in send our heartfelt congratulation to the headmaster Mr Alan Hammersley , the chair of governor Mrs Maureen Woodall , and all its staff and student ? they should be supremely proud of what they have all achieve . I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those who get their GCSE result this summer , in his constituency and around the country , on all their hard work , particularly those at Worden academy . the headteacher and leadership team there have turn that school around and be get fantastic result this year . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Rabi Maharajan and his team at D é Buddha restaurant in my constituency on their incredible achievement of " good dining experience " at the scottish hospitality award ? I urge member across the House to come and sample the excellent nepalese cuisine at D é Buddha in Johnstone . D é Buddha sound like a fantastic restaurant . I congratulate its staff on win the " good dining experience " award . maybe an invitation will follow . as the Leader of the House well know , Rossendale be the only local authority area in the north without a commuter rail link . Rossendale council ' s city - to - valley proposal would have finally address that by link we up with Manchester . the idea be repeatedly shoot down by the previous Government , but this Government ' s increase regional transport fund mean that we finally have a chance to get a fair hearing . however , challenge remain in get the project deliver into the investment pipeline , particularly as it cross local authority border . will she agree to a debate on how we can get vital project such as Rossendale ' s city - to - valley rail over the line ? as ever , my hon . friend raise the issue of connectivity and transport in his Rossendale and Darwen constituency . as a nearby MP , I know all too well the real need for a rail link between Rossendale , Darwen and Manchester , and I look forward to work with he to ensure that this Labour Government deliver on that . Kidsgrove post office have be close for over six month now , and resident have be leave without vital service . the Post Office will not tell resident why it be close so suddenly or when it may reopen . do the Leader of the House agree that the Post Office must be more open with resident about what be happen ? this have be go on for far too long . I join my hon . friend in that call . when post office close , especially at short notice , it cause huge consternation in local community . I call on he and other Members of Parliament to stand up against the Post Office on those decision and get the good for their constituent . I be aware that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House enjoy a tipple on occasion , so she will be pleased to know that the 46th Peterborough beer festival , which be entirely run by volunteer , be hold last month . over 21 , 000 visitor come to the festival this year , and over 58 , 000 pint of cask ale be serve . I be pleased that Green Devil , by our very own Oakham Ales , be crown the campaign for Real Ale beer of the festival . will she join I in thank Mike Lane for organise his 39th beer festival in the city , as well as all the other volunteer , and will she make time in the House for a debate on the importance of volunteer to such community festival ? in the interest of set the record straight , I must say to the House that I be a complete lightweight these day and much prefer zero - alcohol beer over anything else . I be sure that there be some fantastic zero beer at the festival in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I join he in congratulate Mike Lane and all the other on serve 58 , 000 pint there . over the summer , hundred of Telford resident join I in demand that the conservative police and crime commissioner scrap his 8 pm cap on police community support officer patrol the street of Telford . will the Leader of the House arrange a debate on the importance of neighbourhood police so that we can send the commissioner a clear message : " the Government be provide you with money for community police , so you should keep police officer and pcso on the street of Telford " ? I join my hon . friend in that call . we want more neighbourhood police officer patrol our street , particularly at the time of day when crime be most likely to be commit and people want to feel safe . I recently meet grassroots football team , include King Park Dynamos , Generation Elite Academy , Queens Park lady and the AFC Bournemouth community sport trust Minikickers . they want more football pitch in Bournemouth , and king park would be the perfect place , but the athletic track need fix , the master plan update and the playground enhancing , and king park nursery should be bring into use again . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on access to grassroots sport ? I join my hon . friend in say that Bournemouth need more football pitch . that be why we be invest more in grassroots sport and have give more money to local government . it be vital that those sort of facility be there for community and young people to keep healthy and fit . a book by investigative journalist Nick Davies be out today . it reveal the true scale of the deletion of million of email and evidence essential to Parliament , the police and the court in uncover the truth about phone hacking by Rupert Murdoch employee . might we have a debate on the reality of two - tier justice — cover - up , corruption and contempt of law — in which oligarchs place themselves above scrutiny ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . I be aware that that book be out today , but I have not have a chance to look at it . I be clear that Parliament need to play its role in scrutinise those type of institution , and any attempt to silence member of Parliament be completely unacceptable . I look forward to work with she and other member on take that forward . resident of Overseal in my constituency wake up over the August bank holiday weekend to find a Traveller site be construct behind their home without plan permission and with complete disregard for due process , ignore a stop order that have be secure by local councillor Amy Wheelton and officer of the council . that present derbyshire district council with a potentially costly and lengthy legal process , and deny local people any opportunity for consultation and comment . a member of my team have meet resident , and I will meet they this weekend at my early opportunity . will the Leader of the House make a statement on the measure that we can take in this place to help constituent such as mine ? I be sorry to hear of the trouble that my hon . friend be have in her constituency and of the challenge in support her council and police to take action . we keep power under constant review to ensure they be effective in tackle unauthorised encampment . I will keep she update on that . Blooming Bairns , a group of community volunteer commit to see Falkirk town centre flourish , have put in a marathon effort in service of our community . their planting on Newmarket Street , Vicar Street and the High Street have breathe new life into our town centre . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Blooming Bairns for their 1 , 900 - plus hour of community volunteering and congratulate they on their recent one - year anniversary ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Blooming Bairns on their community work over the past year . yesterday the Tory Mayor of Tees Valley take to social medium to claim falsely that Venator , a brilliant company operate in my constituency , have go into administration , and that UK tax policy be to blame . I speak to the company yesterday afternoon , and it make it clear that that be not true . the UK operation be solvent and healthy , and nothing that be happen to its international hold company have anything to do with UK tax policy . it be a strong and successful company , and we must work to secure its long - term future . these be people ' s job ; these be people ' s life . my constituent be not political football for Ben Houchen to kick around . will the Leader of the House join I in correct the record , offer our support to that brilliant Hartlepool company and its workforce , and encourage the Mayor of Tees Valley to stop play politic , grow up and apologise ? I be sorry to hear that false claim have be make on social medium . my hon . friend have just outline how irresponsible that can be and the devastating impact that it can have on job and investment in constituency such as his . I be sure that Mayor Houchen have hear his question and will rectify the situation . have recently marry — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] — I have elect to change my surname . despite have be warn in advance , I be horrify by the sheer number of body , organisation , Departments and agency that I need to inform . will the Leader of the House update we on whether any consideration of digital ID will include make it far easy for people in my position , or who have change their surname for other reason , to do so quickly and easily ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her marriage over recess . she look absolutely beautiful and incredibly happy on her wedding day . I be sorry to hear of the multifaceted challenge that she face in change her name everywhere . I be sure that , be it to be develop , digital ID would address some of those issue . I be happy to ensure that those issue be look into . firefighter tackle the huge blaze on the North York Moors face incredibly difficult condition , include explode munition from an old tank training base near RAF Fylingdales . will the Leader of the House join I in commend the bravery and service of North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service and thank other fire service across the country who be support we through national resilience ? absolutely . we all hear about the incident in my hon . friend ' s constituency and join she in thank all those who work with the North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service and the volunteer who help to get the situation under control for the bravery they show . I think we do need more of a debate about future resilience in term of wildfire . in January , the sewer on Church Street in Northborough , a village in my constituency , collapse . after several attempt by Anglian Water , it still have not be fix eight month later . this mean a risk of contamination , and because of road closure , it be cause huge pothole on surround road . householder on Church Street be even report crack in their home . do the Leader of the House agree that we should have a debate in Parliament on significant infrastructure damage by water company and the impact that that have on resident ? anglian Water need to sort out the situation with the sewer in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I will raise that for he with Ministers at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . the SNP Government have award public contract to China , Turkey and Poland to build scottish ferry and bus . do my right hon . friend agree that the SNP Government should accept the offer from the UK Government to rewrite scottish procurement rule — as they have previously in a range of other area , include regulation around the sale of vape and keep ScotRail in public hand — and that those change should get on to the statute book as soon as possible , to stop the disadvantaging of local firm , boost the scottish economy and protect thousand of scottish job ? absolutely . we be take step in England to ensure that local community have more of a say over their local area — we invest in our high street and local community — and I implore the Scottish Government to do the same in Scotland . the current drafting of national planning policy be allow developer to ride roughshod over local democracy , impose completely inappropriate bolt - on estate to market town such as Buntingford and Royston , while wholly fail to deliver the genuinely affordable housing that we need . it be difficult to imagine a system and state of affair more likely to erode public support for the Government ' s house building ambition . can we have a debate in Government time to ensure the presumption in favour of sustainable development achieve what it be intend to , rather than the current farce ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue . we be unashamedly pro house building as a Government , but as he say , that do not mean we be pro developer get away with poor development . that be why community need to continue to have a say in what they be do . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be in the House of Lords at the moment and will come back to this place soon for further debate . Wales ' s old city , Bangor , celebrate its 1 , 500th anniversary this year . I would like to invite everyone to the Bangor day that I be hold in Parliament next week , to meet some of the people shape the future of that amazing city ; and I hope the Leader of the House will consider pop in for five minute after business question . there be no well champion for Bangor than my hon . friend . it be a fantastic Welsh city . it be almost a Cinderella — a forgotten but brilliant city with huge potential and a great history . I would be delighted to pop along there sometime soon . in Shrewsbury , we be delighted to see the extra Government investment in our local police force , which have enable we to reopen our town centre police hub this week . it be essential to keep our town centre safe and reduce response time . can we have a debate on how important it be to have police hub in the town centre in place like Shrewsbury ? I be really pleased to hear that the police hub in Shrewsbury have reopen . that be exactly the kind of action we want to see . that be why we be invest so heavily in neighbourhood policing and we have our neighbourhood policing guarantee , and I look forward to hear more about it in the future . my constituent in Horwich be gravely concerned about unsuitable family home be repurpose into house in multiple occupation with little transparency about who be be house there and when . to my immense frustration as the local Member of Parliament , I often hear about such proposal on social medium , which all too often run rife with false information . will the Leader of the House allow Government time for a debate on why company such as Serco do not proactively tell member of this House where individual , include asylum seeker , be be place , so that instead of conjecture , the truth can prevail . I know it be of great concern to many member across the House when they see property become hmo and they do not have any recourse over that , particularly where they see Government agency such as Serco go in and undermine the need of local community . we be look at this , and I will ensure the House be keep update . Cody Townend and Zoe Ward be two mum from Leeds who tragically lose baby in different circumstance . Cody lose Macie - Mae early this year , and Zoe lose Bleu four year ago . they both go to the same funeral director who , to their horror , keep their baby ' body in her private home without their consent and do not treat they with the respect and dignity they deserve . the BBC reveal more shocking detail about this case last week , which I will not repeat now . give that the police find nothing actionable in either case because there be no regulation of the funeral industry , mean that anyone — anyone — can be a funeral director , will the Leader of the House grant an urgent debate in Government time on the need to regulate the funeral industry , so that no one have to experience what Cody and Zoe do ever again ? this be a truly shocking case , and my thought be with Cody , Zoe and the many other who have experience truly appalling action like this . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the regulation of funeral director ; we have see a number of shocking case in recent month . I will ensure he get a ministerial response , but I think this would make an incredibly important and powerful debate in this House . I be wear a ribbon to commemorate the life of Norma Symonds , a former conservative councillor and town mayor of Bishop ' s Stortford . determined , courageous and kind , Norma dedicate her life to support those who need help and serve our community , give a voice to the voiceless . she set an example to the rest of we that , beyond party and politic , what matter most be help other . will the Leader of the House , and indeed the whole House , join I in pay tribute to the life of a remarkable woman and send good wish to her family , friend and colleague ? what a powerful testimony that my hon . friend have choose to raise Norma Symonds , who be a former conservative councillor in his constituency . she sound like a remarkable woman , and I thank he for take the opportunity to raise that today . next Saturday , Kielder be host the 75th annual leek show in the Kielder Tavern . we be all familiar with leak in this place , but will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the stellar effort of the Kielder community , and can we have a debate in Government time on community initiative — particularly in rural area — which contribute so much to the culture of Northumberland and other rural county ? as ever , my hon . friend raise important activity happen in his constituency . he be a powerful advocate for community empowerment in his constituency . I join he in thank those behind such initiative , which we will have ample opportunity to discuss in the come month . the infected blood scandal have have a devastating impact on family across the country , include my 82 - year - old constituent Jean Campbell , who tragically lose she much - love husband . spouse who have lose those dearest to they have also , in many case , live restrict life , yet they be still have to fight for compensation . I greatly welcome the announcement in July , but can my right hon . friend secure time for a statement or debate , to provide reassurance to those like Jean that they will not have to wait year for compensation , particularly give the age of some of the victim of this scandal ? the victim of this scandal , like Jean , have suffer terribly for many year , as my hon . friend describe . I be sure he will agree that no amount of compensation can make up for that , but that be not to say we should not continue , as this Government have , to ensure compensation be deliver swiftly , fairly and substantively to people like Jean . he will be aware that the Minister for the Cabinet Office update the House in July . he have be very forthcoming with his update to the House , and I will make sure my hon . friend and other colleague be keep update on this matter . early Education and Childcare with permission , I will make a statement to update the House on this Government ' s vital work to give every child the good start in life . within month of take office we publish our plan for change , a promise to improve the life of work people and break down barrier to opportunity for people in this country . that plan set a target that a record proportion of child will start school ready to learn . why ? because the foundation of the strong society that we want to build must be lay down from the very beginning of child ' s life . in July , we publish our " give every child the good start in life " strategy , set out how we will achieve that target , and the Government ' s vision for the future of the early education and childcare sector . we have hear the call of family and provider . education begin long before primary school , and this step change will give our child the focus and priority that they deserve during their critical early year . we will help our young child by increase the availability of childcare , improve the quality of early education and boost support for family , build on the good of sure start by roll out good Start family hub in every local authority in England . take together , those three approach will make the difference to family and set up child for success in education and in life . it be yet another example of this Government work , with promise make , and promise keep . we promise to make childcare more affordable for parent and more accessible across the country . today we be deliver on that promise , with hundred of thousand of parent now get 30 hour of fund childcare each week , from when their child turn nine month until they start school . for too long , family have struggle to get childcare place that match their individual need , and provision have be either unavailable or unaffordable . the least well - off part of our country often have far few childcare place per person than the most affluent , but wide provision of high - quality childcare and early education make a huge difference to many life . it help parent by give they the flexibility to balance work and family life , and it help business and the economy by help parent return to work and grow the childcare sector and employment . this mark a fundamental shift in how we support family right from the start : reduce cost , increase choice , and help parent to balance work with family . those make full use of the offer will save , on average , around £ 7 , 500 a year . for Victoria in Gloucester , the 30 hour be help she to balance be a single mother and an educator . she work five day a week , and the extended Government - fund childcare hour will save she around £ 600 a month . they also mean that she can continue her career . as Victoria say : " this roll - out be a significant step forward in woman ' s right and workplace participation . " we be on track to reach over half a million child who will benefit from the scheme this term , already exceed initial estimate for delivery , and the roll - out be a major step forward in our ambition to give every child the good start in life . we know that that ambition be share by our brilliant and dedicated early year and childminder staff who work hard day in , day out to make it possible for family . private , voluntary and independent nursery , as well as childminder , have help the Government to reach this important milestone , and they have grow their capacity in response to increase demand for childcare place . More provider be deliver the entitlement , with the number up by 5 , 800 private provider . the sector play a vital role in support family and nurture young child , so we must ensure that its provision be available where it be most need . that be why we be also deliver ten of thousand more childcare place via new and expand school - base nursery . school have report that 110 nursery from phase 1 of the programme open this week at the start of term , and they be provide 2 , 500 place for family in part of the country where provision be need . those nursery join a diverse childcare market that offer family different choice to meet their need . school - base nursery can strengthen tie between parent and school , and ease the transition into reception . for family with child of different age , they offer easy drop - off and pick - up . school - base nursery also play a key role in inclusion by care for proportionally more young child with special educational need and operate in disadvantaged area . we have already fund around 300 new and expand school - base nursery , and thank to the hard work of school , they be on track to deliver up to 6 , 000 new nursery place . we be lay the foundation of success for ten of thousand of young child , and today I be proud to tell the House that we be launch phase 2 of the school - base nursery programme . back by £ 45 million , it will deliver 300 more new or expand school - base nursery . it will focus on disadvantaged area where place be need , and where they can make a big impact . we will build on the success of the first phase of the programme , and as before , school can apply to establish new nursery in partnership with private , voluntary and independent provider and childminder . last week I have the pleasure of visit Cinnamon Brow Church of England primary school in Warrington . it have collaborate with an exist local private nursery to refurbish an unused mobile unit , create a new nursery on the school site . I be so pleased and impress by the partnership between everyone involve . it be a great example of how school can work with establish nursery to expand childcare provision and break down barrier to opportunity . the programme be already make a difference to family in 66 local authority , and we be look ahead to far grow provision for future generation . phase 3 of the school - base nursery programme will launch in early 2026 , and will focus on meet the long - term need of local community . local authority will be invite to develop multi - year funding proposal , in collaboration with school and childcare provider . back by over £ 400 million , the programme will deliver on our manifesto commitment to parent of more place in school - base nursery , and more affordable childcare for parent . family know that childcare need do not stop when child start school . that be why we recently extend the holiday activity and food programme , invest over £ 600 million in young people ' s future . the programme provide nutritious meal and enrich activity for child from low - income household , it help to close the development gap between those child and their peer , and it ease the financial pressure on parent during the school holiday . the holiday activity and food programme have already reach half a million child in the past year , and during that time it have save family over £ 300 each . it be another part of our mission to break down barrier to opportunity , so that every child can get the good start in life . our " good start in life " strategy set out how we will support this country ' s child to thrive as they grow up . alongside the £ 9 billion that this Government will be invest in early year , we will spend nearly £ 1 . 5 billion over the next three year to strengthen the childcare sector and revitalise family service . by expand fund childcare and grow provision where it be need via school - base nursery , more child will arrive in reception ready to learn and succeed in education . the measure I have set out today reflect this Government ' s deep commitment to ensure that every family can access high - quality childcare and early education , and that all child can reach a good level of development and start school ready to learn . that will help family to save money , earn more and give child the good possible start in life . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Education Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and it be a pleasure to be at the Dispatch Box for the very first time as shadow Education Minister . education be the great enabler of success and opportunity in this country . all member of the House regularly visit our local school , college and university , and we see at first hand the power of a good education . Britain have some exceptionally talented young people . I look forward to work constructively with the Minister to help drive up educational standard across the country , so that those young people can get the very good start in life . of course , when we be in government , we be rank fourth in the world for reading , and top in the western world for math . it be fantastic news that , from this week , parent will benefit from 30 hour of fund childcare a week for child age from nine month to four year . I be proud that this conservative plan — our policy — be have its final roll - out to provide childcare for work parent , which be what they need and deserve . this conservative policy will save parent £ 7 , 500 a year per child . I also welcome the extension of the holiday activity and food programme , after its long - term future have remain unclear for many month . it be fantastic to see how enthusiastic the Education Minister be about the plan . I remind the House that only two year ago when we announce our childcare policy — the policy that be have their final roll - out announce now — the Secretary of State for Education herself label our childcare plan " break " and a " total mess " . only one year ago , she refuse to commit to roll out our childcare plan altogether , so I be grateful for the change of heart and that she have put party politic aside to deliver the support that work parent need . our child should always come first . we welcome the expansion of childcare , but the announcement mean little when the industry itself be crumble as a result of the action take by this Labour Government , most notably the damaging job tax . early this week , 27 lead organisation represent child , parent and childcare provider write to the Education Secretary call for urgent action follow the hike in national insurance contribution . without such action , the sector have warn that it will not be able to provide the final roll - out of childcare , with one in 10 childcare provider say that they will face closure within the next two year without help , leave the sector at risk of collapse . the Early Education and Childcare Coalition state that the hike in national insurance have create a " perfect storm " , leave many provider in a position where offer childcare be simply unviable . instead of listen to the expert and organisation task with look after our child , the Department ' s shameful response be to label the claim as lie and " utter nonsense " . how disrespectful to parent , child and the childcare sector . what be utter nonsense be the fact that the Minister expect childcare provider to absorb the national insurance increase without the financial support need , while keep fee the same . we need to be clear : it be not just the sector that will be punish because of the Minister ' s lack of coherent planning ; hard - work parent and their child across the country will suffer too . will the Minister outline what engagement he have have with the sector to ensure that provider be not force to shut their door or reduce the hour they provide ? will he finally admit how damaging the job tax have be to the childcare sector , and what the impact and cost will be ? will he update the House on the impact of the job tax on childcare provision , and how he will continue to monitor its impact ? on the detail of the Minister ' s announcement , will he clarify how the Department be identify the most disadvantaged area , and how he plan to make the big impact ? will he put parent up and down the country at ease and confirm that the Chancellor will not fill she £ 50 billion black hole with the education budget ? while we welcome the expansion of childcare , the reality be that Labour ' s decision be make childcare less accessible and more expensive . the Education Secretary say she be stand up for hard - work parent , but they be the one who will suffer as a result of this Labour Government — our child will suffer , too . it be time for she to stop make broken promise and to ensure that early year provision be her no . 1 priority . I start by welcome the shadow Minister to his place on the Opposition Front Bench , but it be shocking that even now the Conservatives can not bring themselves to recognise the significance of Labour ' s childcare expansion , nor can they celebrate the new school - base nursery that make more affordable childcare place available across the country . despite the Conservatives ' scaremongere , nine in 10 parent have one of their first choice childcare place . this Labour Government inherit a pledge without a plan but , once again , we be deliver for family , give parent more choice and set child up with the good start in life . the people of this country be well aware of what happen when Conservative member make pledge ahead of election , such as 40 new hospital or level up , and of the reality that Liz Truss crash pension and mortgage . what do Conservative member do ? they cheer she on . let I spell it out to they and tell they a truth that the british public be keen to ensure that the Conservatives hear at the election last year : when they will not even take the blame for the thing that they do , they certainly will not get the credit for the thing that they do not do . over 14 year , they dismantle the support for family . More than 1 , 000 sure Start centre , which boost early learning , provide healthcare and build community , be rip away from community across our country . it be no wonder that the Conservatives do not want to admit that what we be rebuild , they destroy . this government be deliver on our promise of change : thousand of new nursery place , expand childcare hour , best start breakfast club in every primary school across our country and support throughout the school holiday . labour be deliver on our promise to parent . we be save family thousand of pound , give parent work choice and improve child ' s life chance . that be what the country expect and that be what I be proud this Labour Government be deliver . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I welcome the Minister ' s statement : the expansion of funded childcare hour this week ; the future expansion of school - base nursery ; and confirmation of a further three year of funding for the holiday activity and food programme . my Committee be today launch an inquiry on the early year . we will examine in detail the Government ' s work in this area , look at the sustainability of the workforce , family ' access to service across the country and the quality of outcome for child . may I therefore ask the Minister what additional work he believe be need to ensure that child in family who be not in work — who often have the most to gain from high - quality early year education — be not leave behind by the expansion of funded hour for work family ? how confident be he that the significant problem in recruitment and retention of early year practitioner will be address to secure the workforce need to deliver on the Government ' s commitment ? finally , will the Minister join I in pay tribute to everyone in my constituency and across the country who have spend the past six week run holiday activity and food programme ? I know they be utterly exhaust this week , but they should know that their hard work have help to tackle poverty and disadvantage , and to provide vital opportunity that keep child and young people safe and help they to thrive . the Chair of the Select Committee be a real champion for maintain nursery across the country , and I know that she share the Government ' s vision of ensure that every child get the good start in life and have the chance to succeed and thrive . as she know , we set out our vision for early education in our landmark strategy in July . I look forward to receive formal notice of her Committee ' s inquiry and to work with she and the Committee in a constructive manner , put the need of child and young people first . I pay tribute to all those who work over the summer to deliver for child and young people . as a former playworker , I see the huge value of the HAF programme . I commend all those who work so hard over the summer holiday . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . high - quality early year education be the well possible investment we can make in our future . whether we be serious about tackle the SEND crisis or the attainment gap , or be simply concerned to give every child the good start in life , proper investment in the early year be one of the strong lever we have . we all know that for far too long the previous Conservative Government neglect the early year sector , leave a legacy of sky - high fee and childcare desert in their wake , particularly in disadvantaged area . we Liberal Democrats therefore welcome the Government ' s announcement of more school - base nursery , alongside the extension of fund childcare hour — but let we not forget the deep problem face the private and voluntary sector . without address the massive financial strain on those nursery and childcare provider , we can never hope to deliver for family . their survival be absolutely central to support family up and down the country to thrive . the Government ' s job tax , I be afraid , have only add fuel to the fire . the financial pressure of underfunded hour , the national insurance contribution rise , and inflation have leave many provider on the brink . indeed , some nursery be already tell parent that they may be unable to sign the new contract due to financial pressure . early this week , in a letter publish by the Early Years Alliance , a survey of more than 800 provider find that 44 % could not meet demand this September , while one in six have already cut funded place . that be couple with a crisis in recruitment and training of staff in the sector ; if the provider and the staff be not there , how can the Minister expect his expansion to deliver for parent up and down the country ? will the Minister commit to urgently review the funding rate , so that they reflect the real cost of deliver high - quality early education ? at the same time , will he work with his colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to ensure that we extend and fully fund parental right so that familie up and down the country have a real choice between whether they want to stay at home for a long period in the early month , or go out to work full time ? I thank the hon . Lady for welcome our expansion of childcare . I note again that nine in 10 parent receive one of their first choice childcare place . we be determined that our childcare expansion will deliver safe , quality care for child . I know that the whole House agree that the safety and wellbeing of child be of paramount importance . that be why alongside this expansion , which will support hard - work family , we be increase the frequency of ofsted inspection and enhance recruitment check to prevent unsuitable individual from work with child , alongside new whistleblowing requirement . the strengthened safeguarding requirement have be add to the statutory framework from this month , give parent great confidence that as we expand childcare access , it will be of high quality . the hon . Lady make a number of point about the challenge face by the sector . the number of people work in the sector have increase by 18 , 000 , and as I mention in my statement , there be now 5 , 800 new private provider deliver the entitlement . we will review funding distribution later in this academic year . I welcome the opportunity to continue to work with the hon . Lady on these issue , as we continue to increase access to high - quality education across our country . I look forward to meet she in due course . I welcome the Minister ' s recognition of the impact of this policy on equality . he will know that this Monday be Mums ' Equal Pay Day . mum earn 33 % less than dad , so from 1 September , mum in this country basically work for free . affordable childcare be critical to close that gap . as new organisation Growth Spurt point out , a third of woman who be not in work at the moment say that it be care responsibility that stop they from work . will the Minister meet I and Growth Spurt to look at how we can get jobcentre , which do not routinely tell parent about tax - free childcare and the funded hour process , to help in this respect , so that together we can end the motherhood penalty ? my hon . friend be a real champion for mother , and I commend she for all her hard work in this place over the year . in our " give every child the good start in life " strategy , publish in July , we set out that we plan to make the process simple for parent , and we will be work across Government to ensure that issue be address so that all child be able to access the entitlement offer . I would be delighted to meet she to discuss these issue far . there be five major expansion of early year education and childcare entitlement under the last government ; what the Minister have announce today would have be our sixth . but since we form this policy , the new Government have make a massive increase in the tax on job . when will Ministers next publish their assessment of the economic of run a nursery and of how they ensure that there will continue to be adequate supply of high - quality place , in place like Alton , Petersfield and Horndean ? as I mention early , we inherit a pledge without a plan . I commend the hard work of early year provider and local authority to deliver this key milestone for work family across the country this week . this year alone , we plan to provide over £ 8 billion for early year entitlement , rise to £ 9 billion next year . we announce the large ever increase in the early year pupil premium , and a £ 75 million early year expansion grant have deliver support to the sector to increase the place and workforce that be need . on top of that , we will review funding rate during the course of the next academic year . listen to the Conservative Front Bench spokesperson , one would think that everything be fine and rosy in education before the previous election , and that everything would have be fine if only the Conservatives have be give one more chance . compare and contrast that with what we have deliver in our first year in government : 30 hour of free childcare , actually fund ; free breakfast club ; cheap school uniform on the way ; good start family hub ; and of course — order . Mr Sewards , do you have an actual question ? if so , go for it ! will the Minister join I in encourage parent in my constituency of Leeds South West and Morley to take advantage of everything this Government have do to make the life of parent and child easy ? well , I thank my hon . friend for that very good question ! it be a real privilege to visit his constituency and to see the brilliant work that childcare provider be do in his patch , ensure that every child get the good start in life . he be a real voice on these issue , and will be work closely with I and the team to deliver further change for our country . after that tough question , may I ask an easy one ? can the Minister explain to the House what the funding level be for the new place , and in particular whether it fully compensate for an average £ 18 , 000 increase in the bill that nursery have to face as a result in the rise in national insurance contribution ? as I mention early , £ 8 billion will be spend on the entitlement offer this year , increase to £ 9 billion next year . the core funding rate do include forecast around earning , inflation and increase to the national living wage , but as I mention , we will review the funding distribution in due course and will consult on that formally . I thank the Minister for his statement . as school and early year provider start the new term across Southampton this week , we have two new nursery — at St Mary ' s Church of England primary school and at Valentine primary school — which will add to that provision thank to the investment of this Labour Government . that be go to make an enormous difference to family in an area where one in four child be grow up in low - income family . will the Minister join I in thank everyone work across all Southampton early year setting to give child the good start in life , and in urge parent to ensure that they take this support and all the other support that have be mention that be also be deliver by this Government ? I thank my hon . friend from along the south coast for his question . I know that Portsmouth football club be very much look forward to play Southampton this season . we promise to make childcare more affordable and we be deliver on that . I pay tribute to he and the work that he do in local government , and be now do in this place , to ensure that childcare be more affordable and accessible for child in his constituency . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to and recognition of the importance of early year provision , and the support for school - base nursery , like the new little thinker at Kings Ash academy and the nursery at Furzeham primary school . however , like other , I be deeply concerned about recruitment in the sector . Daisy and Rainbow Childcare say to I this morning : " our big difficulty be manage the drop off in funding as the child get old , while negotiate a 37 % increase in enic , ongoing increase in minimum wage and a rate for three and four - year - old that have never keep pace . be it any wonder that practitioner be vote with their foot and leave the sector to take their skill elsewhere ? we ' ve be advertise for a qualified practitioner now for three month with zero application . " will the Minister explain what the Government be go to do to ensure that recruitment in the sector be maintain ? the early year workforce be at the heart of our Government ' s mission to give every child the good start in life . I mention early that we have see an uplift in the number of people work in the sector by 18 , 000 this year . our good start in life strategy set out a range of measure that we will take to encourage more people to work in the sector . I be proud that we have the " do something big " campaign — a real effort to increase the number of people work in the sector — which be make a real difference across our country . back in the early 2000 , I work for Labour ' s incredible sure Start child ' s centre in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . with Labour back in office , we have the roll - out of breakfast club at Greenways and Milton primary academy , a new school - base nursery at Smallthorne , extended family hub and extend funded place . do the Minister agree that it be only with a Labour Government that family really get on and that young people get the good start in life ? my hon . friend have just remind we of the value of vote Labour at the last election , and why it be so important to have people like he speak up for work family across the country . as he mention , the childcare entitlement , the investment in free breakfast club and make more child eligible for free school meal can make a real difference and help to ensure that every child get the good start in life . today be my young child ' s first day at school , so may I put on record my thank to Chearsley and Haddenham under Fives for provide exceptional early year education to both my son , Charlie and Rupert , over recent decade ? I mean year — it feel like decade ! there be much to genuinely welcome from the expansion of the childcare revolution that the Minister have outline today , which be start by the previous Government . however , coalface report from provider like the Big Top Nursery , which have site in Waddesdon and Berryfields in my constituency , say that Government funding only just cover or do not quite cover the full cost of they provide the exceptional care and education that they do . the double whammy of the national insurance job tax increase make that all the more difficult , so may I urge the Minister , who have meet I before to discuss this subject , to really look at the true cost of provide exceptional education to child in Mid Buckinghamshire , and make the case to the Treasury that the funding need to be high ? I wish the hon . Gentleman ' s child good luck as they start school this week . as I mention early , in this financial year alone we plan to provide more than £ 8 billion for early year entitlement — an increase of more than 30 % compare with the last financial year . we have also announce the large increase in the early year pupil premium since its introduction , which be a significant boost , and investment in target support for the most disadvantaged in our community . as I mention early , we will review funding rate in due course , and I be very happy to meet the hon . member to discuss these issue . while the leader of Reform UK , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , be off in America encourage they to ruin the livelihood of family in Bishop Auckland , I be really pleased that this Government be save my constituent thousand of pound in childcare , but this be not just about childcare . we know that the age of nought to five be the most important in decide a person ' s outcome later in life , which include the intervention in the Best Start family hub . the previous Government close 13 sure Start centre in my constituency ; this Government be make a good start , but we will still only really have one hub . will the Minister meet I to discuss some of our goal locally to open a couple more centre and see how we can support that good start for child in our area ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . the 1 , 000 good Start family hub that we have be roll out across the country will make a huge difference , ensure that every child get the good start in life , alongside the parent hub that we launch early this week , which will provide practical support to parent on breastfeed , access to childcare and other issue . I note that no Reform Members be in the House today , and I know the public will note that too . I thank the Minister for his statement . maintain nursery such as Chichester nursery school provide bespoke support for child , especially those with special educational need and disability , but less than 400 maintain nursery remain open . will he outline what step he be take to ensure long - term financial stability for those nursery so that they can keep the light on and continue support the child they care for in their critical early year ? we aim to ensure that every child with developmental difference and special educational need be support at the start of their life . the hon . Lady will know that we will publish a White Paper on those issue later this year . I commend the work of maintain nursery ; they provide a unique role in community across the country , and I hope they have a bright future ahead of they in the light of the ambition we set out in the " good start in life " strategy in July . I thank the Minister for all the work he have do in bring we so far , so quickly . I have three school nursery opening in my constituency this year , which will mean dozen of family and score of child be give the very good start . can he advise I on how good I can remind those parent that while we hear platitude from Opposition party , they have either vote against or fail to support all the measure we be take to fund this provision ? the Minister mention a plan without a pledge ; it be this Government who be deliver on a plan for that pledge . I can tell from my hon . friend ' s question how passionate he be about these issue . this Government want to break down the barrier to opportunity to ensure that every child succeed and thrive . I have already set out a number of measure that we be undertake to deliver that , and I really look forward to work with he to ensure that every child in his constituency get the good start in life , whatever their background . I welcome the positive step towards provide affordable childcare . Coppice Valley primary school in my constituency be part of phase 1 of the scheme that the Minister outline . however , it worry I that what he have outline might come at the expense of private and voluntary sector provider , which deliver the majority of early year place . the new early year funding contract be put huge strain on such provider , which be have to pass the unaffordable cost on to parent . the Minister have say that there will be a review of the funding in due course , but can he give we some more specific date and timeline ? nursery and parent can not afford this issue in the meantime . it be really important that early year education be deliver in a way that be fair and affordable for parent . as a key part of the strategy we publish early this year , I be very pleased that there be school in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency that will deliver the school - base nursery programme . as I mention in my statement , I visit one in Warrington last week that be a really good partnership between the school and a private provider . I really encourage he to look at that model to see how that could work in his constituency . rise — Order . I remind member that we be finish this statement at 1 . 30 pm . can we keep question very succinct ? this September , Poppleton Road primary school will be open its nursery for the little people of York , lift family out of poverty and give they the good start . will the Minister say how he will evaluate this programme ? it be really important that we be able to prove the case that the investment in early year make a difference to people ' s life chance . we will in due course set out more detail on how we will evaluate the programme , but we have already learn lesson from the first phase on how we want to receive and evaluate application . I really encourage the hon . member to meet I to look at the detail , and I be very happy to discuss these issue far . the work I do this year with Mandu Reid , the former leader of the Women ' s Equality party , find a continue crisis among the provider of childcare . our call be for broad investment in pay , condition and training , to mitigate national insurance contribution burden and to take real action on morale . how will the £ 45 million announce today really help those exist childcare worker who be right on the verge of leave the sector ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right about the valuable role that childminder play in the childcare we be deliver across our country . we have see the number of childminder halve in recent year , which be why we be invest in their workforce . they be key to our plan for change , and we be commit to work with the sector to deliver the change that we set out at the election . I think the whole House can welcome the investment that have be announce today . we know that go through early education make young people more ready for school , and close the school readiness gap also close the attainment gap later on in education setting . when I visit primary school across Stoke - on - Trent Central , the one thing they tell I be that they be burst at the seam — they be full . will the Minister set out what conversation he have have , either inside the Department or between his Department and the Treasury , about identify the capital funding necessary to ensure that school have the high - quality physical space in which these nursery will be base ? I know my hon . friend be a real champion for encourage child to learn and to engage in their local community , and I have meet he to discuss the work we be do on literacy , and I be very happy to take away the point he raise . we be invest in the school - base nursery programme and in school capital funding . if he have particular example that he want I to follow up on in the Department , I be very happy to do so . I visit a nursery in Staines in my constituency , and the head there report to I that , because of the charge regime and what they can and can not charge for , every Saturday morning she end up do many hour of work on education , health and care plan , for which she can not pass on the cost . do the Minister recognise that phenomenon ? if so , be it widespread ? the hon . Member make a number of point with regard to charge . it be worth say that we update the statutory guidance on government - fund entitlement so that it give additional information to parent on what they can and can not be charge for . that be about bring transparency to the system so that parent can access more information on what they can and can not expect , and it confirm the ruling from the High Court judgment early this year on what provider can and can not charge for . I mention early that we be review the broken SEND system that we inherit from the Conservatives . we be get on and deliver a system that be fair and ensure that confidence and trust be rebuild with parent . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s announcement today . will he say a little more about the wide range of potential benefit to family , to child , in term of their educational development , and to the wide economy as a result of help parent to get back to work ? my hon . friend be a real champion on these issue in his constituency . what we be announce today will give more choice and convenience to parent , help to cut the double drop - off and make daily life easy for they . More family will save money with fund childcare worth up to £ 7 , 500 a year , and more child will start school ready to learn , with high - quality early year provision in their community . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for early education and childcare , I speak frequently to representative of the private and voluntary childcare sector , who tell I that they be in crisis . staffing shortage and an unsustainable funding model mean that they do not know how they will deliver the very laudable aim outline in the Government ' s statement . do the Minister understand that those aim be unachievable without the support of the private and voluntary sector ? will he agree to attend a meeting of our APPG to hear directly from key voice in the sector ? I know that the hon . Member will have listen closely to my statement . I commend the hard work of the sector across the country in deliver the milestone that we have meet today — an increase in those provide the entitlement offer by 5 , 800 and an uplift in the workforce of 18 , 000 . we will be spend £ 9 billion on early education next year , and I be really keen to continue my work with the sector to bring about the change that people vote for at the election last year . as a mother who at one point have three child under four and have to take time out of the workplace , I welcome the great stride make by this Labour Government to support parent and child . in Scotland , parent have access to 1 , 140 fund hour , but for too many parent — particularly those who want to work in the hospitality , retail and care sector — that just do not work , due to the inflexible nature of those hour . will the Minister commit to learn the lesson from Scotland and consider flexible hour go forward ? I remind member that a lot of people want to get in . please keep your question short . I thank my hon . friend for her question . of course , these issue be devolve , but I look forward to hear her thought and view on they . I encourage she to write to I , and I can certainly raise her point with the relevant team across the Department and across Government . I know that minister be probably sick of hear about national insurance increase and my repeat call for business rate exemption , as they have in Scotland . however , the strain of cost be lead to practice that be affect family — for example , a nursery chain in my constituency that have numerous branch only allow family to take their fund hour in the afternoon , force they to pay for the morning that they actually need . those family be now bad off than when they have few hour . what be the Minister go to do to help such family ? I have mention the investment that we be put into early education — £ 8 billion this year and £ 9 billion next year . we have announce the large ever increase in the early year pupil premium , and case study from across the country be demonstrate the difference that this programme be make . however , as I mention , we want to make the process simple for parent and learn lesson from the past , and we will set that out in due course as part of our wide reform agenda . I be look forward to visit Bloemfontein primary school in my constituency , where a new school - base nursery be about to open . can the Minister outline what the measure announce today will mean for hard - work parent in North Durham who be try to juggle work and family life ? as I mention early , there will be more choice and convenience for parent , help to cut the double drop - off at school and make daily life easy . More family will save money through fund childcare worth up to £ 7 , 500 a year , and more child will start school ready to learn . it be a huge programme of work that I know will make a huge difference in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I wish to declare that I have two young child under the age of four . while the expansion of free childcare be welcome news for parent in England , do the Minister recognise that family in Wales be be leave at a serious disadvantage because his colleague in Cardiff Bay have refuse to match that offer , leave Welsh family with the least generous childcare provision in Britain ? will he join I in urge the Welsh Labour Government to stop hold Welsh family back , and to commit instead to deliver 30 hour of government - fund childcare from nine month to four year old , which be something the Welsh Liberal Democrats have long campaign for ? as the hon . Member will know , these be devolve matter and it would therefore be appropriate for he to put his question to Wales Office colleague . we be a Government who be committed to break down the barrier to opportunity , and we will be set out a UK - wide child poverty strategy later this year , to ensure that every child get the good start in life . our amazing school play a central role in give every child the good possible start in life . will the Minister join I in congratulate Mrs Toner and her entire team at the good Shepherd Catholic primary academy on their recent and incredibly well - deserve outstanding Ofsted report ? that be fantastic news to hear . my hon . friend regularly engage with school and nursery across his constituency to make sure he be aware of the issue and challenge they be face , and he work really closely with those school and nursery to ensure that we bring about the change that people vote for last July . nursery fee be crippling , run to thousand of pound per child per month after the expansion of funded hour . parent be make reproductive choice solely on the basis of the cost of childcare — be it any wonder that the total fertility rate in this country have plummet ? do the Minister consider this to be " job do " , or will he commit to radically reduce the cost of childcare ? this be absolutely not " job do " — it be the start of the next journey of change , to make sure that every child get the good start in life . we want to make life easy for parent across the country . the thing I be announce today will make a difference , but there be more for this Government to do . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to break down barrier to opportunity , as well as their investment in Fairchildes and Monks Orchard primary school in my constituency so that they can expand their nursery provision . can the Minister outline the role that school - base nursery play in Labour ' s best Start strategy , and will he join I in urge parent in Croydon East to visit beststartinlife . gov . uk to see the support that be available to they thank to this Labour Government ? I know that my hon . friend be really passionate about these issue and want to make life so much easy for family in her constituency . school - base nursery will help drive quality in early education and ensure good - quality access for parent . I mention the double drop - off that many parent face ; access a school - base nursery and then drop off their old child at primary school be a much simple and more convenient approach . I be very happy to follow up on my hon . friend ' s point to ensure that this scheme be a success in her constituency . I thank the Minister for the way in which he have engage with my constituent John and Katie , who be run a campaign to make our nursery safe follow the tragic death of their daughter Gigi . a key part of that campaign be introduce safe sleeping guidance in our nursery , and I understand that the Government be consider plan to update the early year framework on that . can the Minister give I an idea of the timeline by which those plan will come before Parliament ? it be vital that we make our nursery safe with that safe sleep guidance . I thank the hon . member for his question and for his engagement on these extremely important issue . I pay tribute to the family he represent . I have meet with they personally to understand the change they be keen to see . the safety of our young child be of the utmost importance to my Department . I be keen to continue to engage with the hon . member as we hear the family ' s concern and bring about the change that they expect . I be delighted to hear recently from headteacher Mrs Solomon and school legend Lynne Purcell , who be excited about roll out their school - base nursery this week and the difference it will make to community across Telford . I have also speak to Mrs McQuiggin and school business manager Sarah Nicholls at Lawley primary school , which serve Telford , about the difference that their breakfast club be make to parent and child . Minister , when can we have some more in Telford ? my hon . friend like to lobby I on these issue , and I pay tribute to his hard work in deliver for his constituency . I also thank those who work in nursery and school across his constituency , who we have work really hard to rebuild the relationship with after the failure of the previous Government . I thank the Minister for his very positive statement . he work very closely with the Minister in Northern Ireland , who announce back in May a package of measure worth some £ 55 million for the same purpose . the uptake have be huge , and have demonstrate the need for work family to receive help and for child to have support . however , more grandparent be have to work later in life , which mean that childcare be at a premium . have the Minister have the opportunity to discuss that problem with the relevant Minister in the Northern Ireland Assembly , to share idea and help all region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to work together ? the hon . Member will know that I have prioritise get to know the Minister responsible in Northern Ireland in order to discuss these issue , and I be really pleased that the Northern Ireland Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , be sit next to I . I will continue to engage with the Government in Northern Ireland on the issue of workforce and sufficiency , and where we can , I be very keen to support the community in deal with the challenge they face . the late figure show that Dartford have see the second large rise in family with child of any area in the country , so my constituent will hugely welcome the additional free childcare hour and the new school nursery that will result from this week ' s announcement . do the Minister agree that not only will these change give Dartford child the good start in life , they will help Dartford parent get into and sustain work ? today ' s milestone moment be deliver real change for family across the country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we be really pleased by the milestone we have meet today , but there be much more to come to make sure we break down the barrier to opportunity for every child in every part of the country . " Paw Patrol " lunchbox in hand , my son Robin start at a new preschool yesterday , and I can tell the House that I be so proud of he . will my hon . friend join I in thank the staff at York ' s preschool and nursery for their work in expand free childcare ? as a relatively new dad , my hon . friend have be a real champion on these issue in this House , and it be a real pleasure to meet he early this year to discuss some of the issue he face . I pay tribute to those who work in the early year sector in his constituency — they be work day in , day out to ensure every child get the good start in life . I welcome today ' s announcement that this Government be again expand school - base nursery . that programme be already benefit my constituent with the expansion of Uplands school nursery in Sandhurst . this summer , I also have the real pleasure of visit Horseshoe Lake in Sandhurst to meet child try out sailing and paddleboarde through the holiday activity and food programme . do my hon . friend agree that the £ 600 million expansion of that programme demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to every child ? I thank my hon . friend for visit the HAF programme in his constituency , where he see first - hand what a brilliant scheme it be , provide healthy meal , enriching activity and government - fund childcare place for child from low - income family . that be exactly what this Labour Government want to invest in , and we be . I warmly welcome the statement . family in Dudley be now benefit from 30 hour of government - fund childcare , include new place in school - base nursery such as at Beechwood Church of England primary school in St Thomas ' s , one of the most deprived ward in the borough . can the Minister set out how this expansion , alongside more support for parent and investment in early year staff , will help child to start school ready to learn and succeed in the future ? it be a real privilege to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to see at first hand the hard work she be undertake with school staff and nursery setting . she be absolutely right : our investment in early year will make a huge difference to child ' s life by allow they to socialise and to develop the skill they need to succeed in life , as well as deliver real benefit for parent across the country , save they on average £ 7 , 500 a year . in just one year , up to 2 , 970 more child will receive free school meal in Exeter . we have receive capital investment for Newtown and St Gabriel ' s primary school . three primary school in my constituency — Whipton Barton junior and infant and St Sidwell ' s — be in the roll - out of breakfast club . this week , we have a new school - base nursery at Exwick Heights primary school . can the Minister set out how that all help we to achieve our aim to reduce child poverty in Exeter and across the country ? this Government have a clear mission to break down the barrier to opportunity and to remove the stain of child poverty on our society . that be why I be so pleased to announce in the House early this year that the down payment on the child poverty strategy will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and ensure that half a million more child can access free school meal from September next year . child and parent at Allenby primary school in my constituency of Ealing Southall be already set to benefit from a newly modernise and expand nursery as a result of funding from this Labour Government . can I pass on directly to the Minister the thank of Mr Hickman , the headteacher , who say that the investment be a fantastic opportunity that the local community be truly grateful for ? do the Minister agree that today ' s announcement of 300 more nursery in school like Allenby will save thousand of family money on childcare and help they to manage the challenging job of parenting and work ? I thank Mr Hickman for that feedback . we be absolutely committed to deliver on our commitment to create ten of thousand more place through new and expand school - base nursery , back by more than £ 400 million of investment . that will help more family access Government - fund childcare and ensure that every child get the good start in life . over the summer , thank to this Labour Government , empty classroom and underutilised space have be turn into high - quality , school - base nursery provision at Matchborough first school in Redditch in my constituency . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s focus on the early year can and will make the big difference to child ' s live in my constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . phase 2 of the school - base nursery programme , with a strong focus on support family in disadvantaged area , will make a huge difference . from 22 September this year , school can apply for up to £ 150 , 000 from a £ 45 million fund , enable at least another 300 school - base nursery across the country . I recently visit Leaps and Bounds nursery in Winton , and it be clear that the woman who work there strive to create a safe and enriching environment for all the young people , so that they be ready to start school when they go . can the Minister tell I how this Labour Government be make early year education — this critical time in a young person ' s life — more accessible and affordable for parent in Bournemouth West ? my sister have work in the early year sector for 30 year , and the early year workforce be at the heart of our Government ' s plan for change to ensure that every child get the good start in life . we be committed to make childcare more affordable and accessible for family . this week , a key milestone have be meet , but there be more to do , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend to make sure that every child , whatever their background , can succeed and thrive through good - quality early education . it be so gratifying to see the school - base nursery programme go from an idea to a reality . I place on record an appreciation of the positive role that the trade union movement , and in particular the GMB , have play in nurture that idea in response to the problem of fall roll . will the Minister please set out a bit more information for school in my constituency that may wish to apply for phase 2 funding on the step they should take next ? I thank all those who have contribute to the key milestone that have be meet today . my hon . Friend mention the valuable role of trade union , and I agree with he . today , we be launch phase 2 of the school - base nursery programme , with a strong focus on support family in disadvantaged area . the application window for school to apply will open on 22 September , and I know he will be keen to encourage school in his constituency to apply for this exciting opportunity . sure Start be one of the proud legacy of the last Labour Government . we must be grateful to Tessa Jowell for her contribution in make that happen . I be pleased that we be recapture the spirit of sure start through such initiative as free breakfast club , include at Morley primary school in my constituency . can the Minister say a little more about what today ' s announcement will mean for parent and child in Mid Derbyshire ? my hon . friend be right to flag the significance of free breakfast club in primary school , which we be roll out across every primary school in the country . that be on top of what we have deliver today with our fund childcare , with 30 hour of support each week . that will save parent on average £ 7 , 500 a year . we be a Government who take seriously support for child and family across the country , ease some of the pressure they face , but also ensure that every child get the good start in life . I be so glad to see the extension of the holiday activity and food programme . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the work of Jo Haydon and all the staff and volunteer at the 4 Community Trust in Hateley Heath — one of the area of high child poverty in my constituency — and their delivery of the HAF programme this year ? I pay tribute to all those who have help deliver the holiday activity and food programme in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country . we have have 5 million day deliver this year alone . that be a huge investment in our child ' s future and make sure they have access to good - quality enrichment activity , hot food and opportunity that they might not ordinarily get at school or at home . I attend the inaugural meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on play this week , chair ably by my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , and hear more about the importance of play . I be glad that be reference several time in the Government ' s excellent strategy . have the Government look at the approach take by Finland in ensure that play form a central part of early education — specifically play facilitate by educational professional aim at prepare child for learn ? my hon . friend will know that our landmark strategy set out our first step towards deliver a decade of national renewal and strengthen family service . we be always keen to learn from other country , because in order to achieve our ambition as a country , we need to learn from elsewhere . he will know the value I place , as a former playworker , on play provision , and I be happy to discuss these issue far with he . finally , I call Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you be still a national treasure to I . I thank the Minister for his important statement , which will make a huge difference to young people and family in my constituency . over recess , I hold a roundtable for parent of SEND child in Harlow . the no . 1 thing that they say would support their child be early intervention to ensure they have the good possible start in life , which will support they in school and later in employment . will the Minister guarantee that this early intervention — this proactive approach to childcare and education — will be a golden thread that run through this Labour Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his proactivity in bring parent together to hear their thought and view . we be a Government who be listen to what parent tell we , and we want to act to ensure that every child get the good start in life . he be absolutely right that invest in early education and support early intervention around any additional need that child have be vital in ensure that every child get the good possible outcome and life chance . I know that he will continue to work with we to make sure that happen in his constituency and across the country . that conclude the statement . I thank the Minister and Members for help each other out and keep question and answer succinct . point of order : Rectification Procedure I call Clive Lewis on a point of order in connection with the code of conduct , to rectify a failure to declare . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to apologise to the House for fail to declare an interest when make speak contribution on 8 March 2023 , 14 November 2023 and 16 June 2025 . when I make these contribution , I inadvertently fail to declare an interest : I be the chair of the British Caribbean Association . this be a breach of the rule , and I apologise to the House for this error . I would also like to apologise to the House for fail to declare an interest when table write parliamentary question to the Home Office on 1 February 2024 and 5 March 2025 , and when table a write question to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office on 17 July 2024 . when I table these question , I inadvertently fail to declare an interest : I be the chair of the British Caribbean Association . this be in breach of the rule , and I apologise to the House for this error . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . there will be no further point of order on this issue . privilege the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) have table a motion for debate on a matter of privilege , which Mr Speaker have agree should take precedence today . I beg to move , that — ( 1 ) there be lay before this House the report of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration propose to be lay under section 10 ( 3 ) of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 concern the step take by the Charity Commission to implement recommendation contain in two report issue by the Commissioner in respect of " Miss A " and " Mr U " ; ( 2 ) the matter of the action of the Charity Commission in bring legal proceeding that would prevent the laying of a report before this House be refer to the Committee of Privileges . I be grateful to Mr Speaker for grant this request . the House will be delighted to know that on the first week back after a longish summer recess , the five hour allocate for this debate will not be take up — I will only take four hour and 50 minute . [ laughter . ] no , do not worry . I know the House want to get on to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . the motion before the House be , I hope , clear . I believe it will command support across all party in the House , but I think it be important to put on the record why it have be table . we have too often allow the privilege of this House and our parliamentary process to be slightly nibble and chip away at , and sometimes we have be reluctant to defend robustly those privilege , which be important for Parliament to function as our constituent expect . I be delighted that my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , who chair both the Committee on Standards and the Committee of Privileges , be alongside I this afternoon . the House of Commons ' role use to be describe as the " grand inquest of the nation " . it mean that one of our great function be to consider and debate everything that we think matter . in a famous case , one of the Law Lords recognise the key importance of " the need to ensure that the legislature can exercise its power freely on behalf of its elector , with access to all relevant information " . this be a case about the ability of the House to receive information , which the House have always take very seriously . " Erskine May " have an entire section on obstruct witness and other . it state boldly : " any conduct calculate to deter prospective witness from give evidence before either House or a committee be a contempt . " the circumstance here be slightly different , because this be about a prospective case against the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . I have table the motion for two reason , which I shall set out briefly , but they be explain in the motion itself . the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , also know as the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , be technically an officer of the House — a Crown appointment appoint by resolution of the House . they have a duty to respond to complaint from all our constituent , where there be validity in do so , in come to report , make observation and suggestion , and submit those report to Parliament . as reference in the motion , there be the case of " Miss A " and " Mr U " . I have no idea who Miss A and Mr U be , and I have no idea what complaint about the Charity Commission be set out before the commissioner , but the Charity Commission have clearly take umbrage or offence at what the PHSO have be seek to do . the Charity Commission be bring legal proceeding deliberately to prevent the laying of two report before this House . that completely undermine the linkage between the ombudsman and this place , and , as I say at the start , it undermine our opportunity and decision to look at any information that we deem to be of importance , or that matter to we , in order to allow we to advance policy . the motion be a very simple one . if approve , it will compel the commissioner to lay before the House the report that they have undertake with regard to the complaint of Miss A and Mr U . I have table the motion as Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , which be responsible for the PHSO . we will look at those report and advise accordingly , if necessary . I make no prior judgment of whether the PHSO or the Charity Commission have get it right in this instance , because we have not see the report . however , it fundamentally undermine the right and privilege of this place , and all of we as Members , when we be prevent from see report that have be produce follow due diligence and proper investigation and inquiry by a statutory body and the ombudsman , who be a servant of the House . because there be concern , which I share , that the Charity Commission have act perversely in bring legal proceeding that would prevent the laying of the report , the second part of the motion seek to refer that action to the Committee of Privileges so that it can take a look . in the general scheme of thing , this may seem a very small element of parliamentary life , but the court have hitherto always take the standpoint that Parliament can and should see what it want and need to see , and that the court should take no role in interfere with or obstruct that channel of communication . we be all familiar with Mr Speaker give advice from the Chair about the sub judice rule , for example , but it do not mean that we can not talk about thing . we do so know full well that privilege entail both right and responsibility . I hope the House be with we on this matter , which be important . it be time for we to robustly reassert our right under the idea of privilege and have access to information . I remain to be convince that the Charity Commission have act advisedly in bring the action . even yesterday , the commission try to put pressure on I to withdraw the motion , believe still that it be in the right . I decide not to do so , and I think it be an abuse of the commission to ask we to do that . the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee will undertake an inquiry on arm ' s length body , of which the commission be part , and a number of right hon . and hon . member from across the House have privately raise with I concern about decision that the commission be take . it be appear to do so in a slightly abstract or perverse way , without any degree of accountability . that matter be separate from this motion , but it be important for all our arm ' s length body , and particularly the Charity Commission , to understand that this House will not be bully by arm ' s length body seek recourse to the court to stop we do our job properly , efficiently and professionally on behalf of all our constituent . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , and I thank he for be so generous in leave so much time for other to speak . we absolutely support the motion that he have bring before the House . we be deeply concerned that anyone , least of all a public body , should be seek to prevent the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration from lay report before this House . as my hon . friend have set out with admirable clarity , we have a long - stand and absolute right to be able to gather and examine relevant information for our inquiry and our work . the linkage between the ombudsman and the House be well - establish and long - standing , and nothing should impede it . legal proceeding should not be seek to prevent the laying of a report before this House , so we strongly support that this House should reassert its ancient right to request and require paper and evidence . I be grateful to the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for bring forward this matter , as well as for speak so powerfully and so concisely on the issue , and to Mr Speaker for grant a debate on this important principle . the Government recognise and value the critical role that Parliament play in scrutinise our work . should the House agree to the motion , the Government will await the work of the Committee of Privileges with interest . question put and agree to . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the Order of 15 October 2024 ( House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 1 , 2 , 3 , 8 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 9 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment King ' s consent signify . clause 1 - exclusion of remain hereditary peer I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 2 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 3 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 8 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 4 to 7 and 9 . this House send the second Chamber a Bill that have a simple and direct objective outline in this Government ' s manifesto , but I have to report to the House that something very strange have happen since then . People say that the Conservatives be in some sort of hibernation since the general election , but it would appear they have find an issue that have awaken they from their slumber . on the order of their whip , some hundred of conservative politician , finally muster the strength to make their mark in Parliament and ready to take action for what the 2025 Conservative party believe in , have find their crusade . what be it ? keep hereditary Lords in the job they access by accident of birth . I have to say that it be a tale as old as time — the Tories block progress . who know it ? this be an opportune moment for I to mention my summer reading list and the first Labour Government in 1924 . even at that time , there be talk about reform of the House of Lords , so this be very much a tale as old as time itself . in fact , look back in historical Hansard , it go much far back than 1924 , so be it not good that this Labour Government be finally get on with deal with it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . whether we go back to 1924 or even far back — and I will during my speech — we find conservative in this House protect their friend bear into position of power . this Bill will finally remove such an archaic right . just as the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) — he be overseas at the moment , I understand — want to send people , certainly in Wales , back down the coalmine , the Leader of the Opposition be stick in the politic of the past . before I turn to the amendment send back from the other place , I want to draw attention to comment make by the noble Lord Strathclyde . he say of this Bill that " inevitably , there will be repercussion . they " — the Government — " be store up huge problem for themselves . " the Conservatives have not only complain that the Government be remove hereditary peer while offer " nothing in return " ; more sinisterly , they have threaten to use delay tactic on this Government ' s agenda . we only have to look at their behaviour in debate in the upper House , to see that they have be try to hold the Government hostage on the Football Governance Bill , the Employment Rights Bill and the Renters ' right Bill — all to protect the hereditary principle . we know that the conservative party be in no fit state to take action on very much , but where be their energy be direct at present ? it be be direct at the self - preservation of hereditary peer in the House of Lords . that be unacceptable and , frankly , it deserve to be highlight . as I say , the Bill have return to the House amend by the other place . Most of the amendment serve to undermine the core purpose of the Bill , or go well beyond the Bill ' s intend remit . lord amendment 1 have to be read with its consequential amendment — Lords amendment 8 . it seek to end the system of hereditary peer by - election while retain the current cohort of hereditary peer . the Government can not endorse those amendment , which fundamentally undermine the core purpose of the Bill . the Government have a manifesto commitment to bring about an immediate reform by remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . lord amendment 1 would allow exist hereditary peer , the young of whom be 39 , to remain in the other place for decade to come . that therefore block an immediate reform . the Minister will be aware that the reason hereditarie still sit in the House of Lords be the deal do in 1999 . the promise make by the then Labour Government be that hereditarie would remain until the House of Lords be properly reform . the Minister be aware that he be remove the hereditarie but give no assurance about when full reform of the House of Lords will take place . what assurance can he give this Chamber about when the Government will make proper proposal to reform the upper Chamber ? as the Leader of the House of Lords have set out in the other place , immediately this Bill be on the statute book a Select Committee will be create to look at those issue of retirement and participation . the hon . Gentleman be talk about politic as they stand in 1999 . this Government be elect on a manifesto that deliver 411 mp in 2024 , and this Government be follow that manifesto . across both this House and the other place , there have be broad consensus that the hereditary route to the House of Lords should end . I also make it clear , as Ministers have from this Dispatch Box and Labour peer have in the other place , that this be not a judgment on individual . it be not a judgment on the work and contribution of individual hereditary peer ; it be a judgment on the principle . let I also say that there be no barrier to any hereditary peer — in the case of the conservative party , through a party list — be nominate as life peer , should the Leader of the Opposition , for example , wish to do that . the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) mention the very long period of time that his party have be anxious for and agitate about reform of the House of Lords . be the creation of a future Select Committee really the sum of all that anger and agitation ? as my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) have say , we could have see a full picture of a modernised , reform and accountable House of Lords that work to deliver bicameral scrutiny , but we do not have that . the Minister be ask we to vest hope in the creation of a Select Committee , with no timeframe attach to when it would report and no promise of future legislation . surely , he must be as disappointed and unhappy with that situation as I be . it be great to see that the hon . Gentleman be disappoint that House of Lords reform be not go far enough . if he want to talk about the 20th century and the length of time that his party be in power , I would say that it have every opportunity to bring about full reform of the House of Lords . not only do the Conservatives bring about minimal reform , at good , but they block every attempt at major reform . it be difficult , therefore , to take their 2025 position seriously . the point about the Select Committee be that we have have on the one hand accusation that the Government be act in a party political way and , on the other , request for the Government to do thing cross - party . that be precisely what the Select Committee will do : it will give the opportunity to consider issue such as retirement age and participation . the debate in the upper House cover those matter across different party . the Select Committee will be establish within three month of Royal Assent . the hon . Gentleman ask about deadline , and I can tell he that the Committee will issue its finding by next summer . I , for one , be perplexed . we have hear Opposition member say that they want we to go fast and far in reform the House of Lords , and we have hear they chuntere about the divine right of whoever and whatever in that place . do the Minister agree that the opposition seem to be rather confused about this , which perhaps stand as testament to the ability of the Leader of the Opposition to lead her party ? the word " confused " sum up the opposition , whether on this Bill or any other . I do not purport to speak on behalf of my party , but rather as an individual who have long have an interest in the positive role that the Lords play in revise legislation , which any elected and strongly whip House would not be able to do . the Minister partly anticipate the point I want to make , when he mention the ability to appoint some of what would otherwise be outgo hereditary peer to life peerage . that may be a way forward for people of good will to pursue , but give the quite high number of people who find themselves in quite responsible position in the Lords , what sort of number do he have in mind to allow the party that will lose a large number of hereditary peer to appoint as life peer ? the right hon . Gentleman always make an individual contribution , to his great credit , not only in this debate but in other . I will not be draw on number , which be always a matter for the Prime Minister and the usual channel . as in every Parliament , the Leader of the Opposition of whatever party will have the opportunity to nominate . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will make a persuasive case to she about some member of the upper House . I do not expect the Minister to be specific about number , but can he at least tell the House whether he accept the principle that a considerably large one - off tranche would be need to cater for this unique situation ? there will be the usual period in this Parliament when there will be an opportunity , and I repeat that there be no barrier to someone who serve as a hereditary peer be appoint as a life peer . opposition Members seem to want lot of reassurance for the people who feel they be bear to rule . can the Minister tell I what reassurance the Government can give my constituent and young people in Kinson and West Howe that they will have equal right to be part of this legislative body ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . she speak powerfully about her constituent , and I want my constituent in Blaenavon , Pontypool and Cwmbran to be able to aspire to be member of Parliament , include in the upper House , and that place be not reserve for people through accident of birth — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister chunter from a sedentary position . if he be in favour of the hereditary position , let he tell we , instead of hide behind the smokescreen of pretend he be in favour of full reform . let we hear he say from the Dispatch Box that he believe in the hereditary principle , if he do . we have say from the outset that we want this Bill on the statute book before turn to the next phase of reform . delay this legislation mean delay the establishment of the Select Committee and delay further reform . as my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) mention , the reality be that since we last reform the Lords , the outside world have change . our Parliament should always be a place where talent be recognise and merit count . it should never be a gallery of old boy ' network , nor a place where title , many of which be hand out century ago , hold veto power over the will of the people . do the Minister recognise the irony that , give these issue be discuss in 1924 , we be probably now discuss the hereditary peer who be the grandchild of the hereditary peer they be talk about get rid of 100 year ago ? my hon . friend be right . one would think that the 1924 debate about bloodline and pedigree as a basis for participation would no long have any advocate , but it appear that a number of such advocate be leave , a century later . from the Parliament Act 1911 to the House of Lords Act 1999 , the history of Lords reform be litter with example of individual member strain every sinew and make every different argument to try to resist reform . in 1911 , Lord Curzon coin the term " the ditcher " — the unionist peer who be to fight into the last ditch over the then Parliament Bill and whose effort have act as an effective block on further change . today ' s ditcher all sit on the Opposition Benches — will the Minister give way ? I will give way to hear from one of the 2025 ditcher . I guarantee to the Minister that , as a council estate boy from Lewisham , I be not someone who ever think that my bloodline would get into the House of Lords — [ interruption . ] one day ! I want to challenge the Minister about the point he have make about future reform . his party have a majority of 170 , and we know that it win the general election . why be he claim that we be try to block reform , which be completely untrue , while the Government be so lacking in ambition and do not have the courage or political will to bring a full package of reform to the House , which the opposition might well support ? what we be ask be why he be tinker at the edge and then attack we for not be in favour of reform , when he have refuse to bring reform in the first place . in respect of the hon . Gentleman ' s bloodline get to the House of Lords , I be sure it be only a matter of time before we see that . in term of the antic of the opposition , I do not know whether the Conservative parliamentary party in the Commons speak to peer , but it should talk to they about their behaviour on the Bill and other Bills that they have block and block and block . I understand that the Leader of the Opposition be apparently spend time to come up with credible policy — no one will believe that the conservative party be in favour of wholesale reform of the House of Lords . it have be more than 25 year since Parliament agree to end the hereditary route , with a supposedly temporary arrangement to retain 92 hereditary peer . it be almost 200 year since the Great Reform Act 1832 , which take away the hold of the great aristocratic family , open up the franchise and take their presence in electoral politic from monopoly to anomaly . nonetheless , the hereditary principle remain in our Parliament : sometimes as symbol of tradition , sometimes as obstacle to real reform — as conservative peer have recently demonstrate . there be a real opportunity today for the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . he have protest several time about newly find passion for wholesale Lords reform — no I haven ' t . I be glad to hear that — there be the real voice of the conservative party . we have also therefore hear a lot of protestation that there be no attempt from the conservative party to block this — we will see in the voting Lobby in due course whether the Conservatives actually seek to block further progress again . we talk about history and nostalgia , but this have in a real sense be use in the upper House to block Bills with a democratic mandate since last year . for the completeness of history , it be 115 year since the Labour party promise to abolish the House of Lords , and I think we will be wait another 100 before it even get close to that . the Minister be absolutely right that the public can not stand the hereditarie — it be something they be bitterly opposed to — but they be also oppose to prime ministerial patronage . it be almost as unpopular as the House of Lords . now , 57 new peer have go into the House of Lords since Labour come to power , and the Guardian have report that dozen more be set to follow . be we just go to be replace the old nobility with new Labour nobility ? absolutely not , because the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom be a Member of Parliament who enjoy the confidence of this House . that be entirely different from the situation of have place in the House of Lords on the basis of an accident of birth . I should say , though , because I do not want to just criticise the conservative party today , that I do appreciate that should the hereditary Lords finally be give leave , the title of " the most ancient and outdated relic " will then be award to the modern - day conservative party , so I guess self - preservation be the Conservatives ' real motive . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) speak about our majority — we will not allow the conservative party to block this change . if the hereditary principle be so wrong , where do that leave the principle of an hereditary monarchy , which have infinitely more influence than any hereditary peer ? we have a modern constitutional monarchy that enjoy very wide popular support . it be a completely different matter . I do not think a monarch have block an Act of Parliament since Queen Anne in 1714 , so I would say that the monarchy play a very different role in our constitution from that of the hereditary peer in the House of Lords . the Government be determined to deliver this reform to rectify this historic wrong and move we close to a fair , more equitable Parliament . I therefore urge the House to reject Lords amendment 1 and 8 . I do need to deal with other amendment now . lord amendment 2 would prohibit future unpaid Ministers from be eligible for membership of the House of Lords . I understand the strength of feeling express in the debate on this amendment in the other place , and I should make it clear that I be proud of the work of all Ministers across Government — I know that ministerial colleague in the other place work incredibly hard . in this House , both Ministers and shadow Ministers be able to focus on our departmental portfolio — with the honourable exception of the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , who , as far as I can make out , seem to be about a third of the shadow Cabinet with his various role . in fairness , he carry out his public duty , as ever , with great dedication . in fact , the situation that the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster find himself in be quite regular in the House of Lords , where Front bencher cover a number of different portfolio , which they do with skill and dedication . however , I have to say that although I understand the motive behind this amendment , it would do little to address the problem it seek to resolve . it would not result in all current Lords Ministers receive a salary , and would instead mean that the number of Lords Ministers would in future be reduce . ministerial salary be determine by the Ministerial and Other Salaries Act 1975 , which set a maximum of 109 ministerial post across both Houses , and the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 , which limit the number of Ministers in the House of Commons — pay or unpaid — to 95 . the reality be that any meaningful change to the number of Ministers or ministerial salary would have to amend that legislation . it be for the Prime Minister of the day to advise the sovereign on the appointment , dismissal and acceptance of resignation of other Ministers in line with those legislative limit . the amendment would therefore have the effect of place a further restriction on that prerogative power and reduce the ability of the Prime Minister to choose the good people to serve in their government . the Bill should clearly not be use as a vehicle to address change to those act , and I therefore urge the House to reject Lords amendment 2 . lord amendment 3 would create a new form of statutory life peerage and seek to create a two - tier peerage system that distinguish between the honour of a peerage and membership of the House of Lords . under this system , individual could receive the title of a peerage but not be entitle to sit and vote in the House of Lords . I wonder whether the Minister could help I out , because I feel that I might be have a dream about some strange alternative reality where the hill that the modern conservative party be prepared to die on be give unelected peer who be no long peer the name and title Lord , as if that be the most important issue of the day in 2025 . can he help I — be that actually what be happen ? be I awake or not at this point ? I can help the hon . gentleman out on one issue : I can reassure he that he be most definitely awake ; this be most definitely reality . where I be afraid I will fail be in explain the priority on the conservative Benches . the hon . Gentleman be quite right to draw attention to that . I thank the Minister genuinely for give way again ; he be courteous and gentlemanly in do so . I promise that this will be my last intervention . could I just ask he about the difference between the problem he be discuss and what the Bill will enact , where a hereditary peer be not give membership of the House of Lords , but be still give the title and privilege of be a peer of the realm ? quite simply , the amendment be try to create the title as an honour without the actual membership . that be the difference . I have an exchange early about there be no barrier to life peerage ; that be not say no barrier to the title . the life peerage , if grant , obviously confer both the title and the participation . that be the difference between the two . on the point about the amendment be unnecessary , as my noble Friend Baroness Anderson of Stoke - on - Trent state in the other place — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] family connection exist on the Government Benches , as well . the UK already have an extensive and long - stand honours system , which recognise and promote the outstanding contribution make by individual the length and breadth of the country and from all section of society . as have be say , be appoint as a peer be an honour , but it also bring the responsibility to contribute to the work of the second Chamber . the Government have a manifesto commitment to introduce a participation requirement to ensure that all peer contribute to the work of the other place — an approach that have receive widespread support from peer . I certainly do not think that create another layer to that system to provide for the statutory creation of non - sit peer be in keep with the mood of either House . I therefore urge the House to reject Lords amendment 3 . I turn finally to an issue on which I hope there will be cross - party consensus , which be resignation by power of attorney . lord amendment 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 9 would allow the House of Lords to set out arrangement for resignation from the other place where a peer lack capacity , include when someone be act under a lasting power of attorney . during the passage of the Bill in the other place , it become clear that there be considerable support to address in legislation the long - stand concern that member who lack capacity be unable to resign from the House of Lords , and the Government have listen and act . follow discussion with peer across the House of Lords , the Leader of the House of Lords bring forward these amendment to address the matter . what they make clear be that a notice to resign from the other place may be give and sign by a person act on behalf of a peer who lack capacity , provide that it be do in accordance with the Standing Orders of the House . the amendment relate to resignation would come into force on Royal Assent to ensure that family who wish to avail themselves of these new arrangement do not have to wait until the end of a parliamentary session to do so . it seek to provide certainty to peer who have raise this issue . it be a solution that have receive unanimous cross - party support in the other place , and I hope that the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will confirm the support for that amendment . this a short and focus Bill . it deliver on a manifesto commitment to immediately remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . it be not personal , and nor be it a comment on the contribution that hereditary peer have make . the Government be grateful for their service in the other place , and I stress again that there be no bar on they return as life peer if their party leader wish to nominate they . however , the time have now come to deliver this immediate reform , so that we can move on to further reform of the other place , as set out in our manifesto , and deliver on what be promise in July last year . I therefore urge the House to support the Government ' s position . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . it be a pleasure to debate this historic piece of legislation on an historic day ; my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) remind I that it be the 1 , 100th anniversary of Athelstan be crown King at Kingston , and I know there be a great many celebration go on there today . the monarchy live on — even if his Majesty ' s Government be make change to our ancient Parliament . the Paymaster General accuse the Conservatives of have be in hibernation , but it must be the Paymaster General who have be in hibernation , for he seem to have forget the fact that we be fight a desperate rearguard action against the disastrous decision that his Government have make — against the enormous damage that his party have do to our country in the short month it have be in power , and the bad budget that we have see in a very long time , which have cause 30 - year borrowing to be at a high rate than it ever be under the previous Government , or indeed the Government before . it be a truly terrible state of affair , and economic expert say that we be head towards an economic crash . it be already cost job in the constituency of all the hon . gentleman across the Chamber every month . it be a serious issue — one that this opposition call out at the Budget and will continue to call out . I hope that the Government see sense before disaster strike . before I move on to the specific of the Bill , I want to pay tribute to the quality of debate , first in this Chamber at the outset of the legislation and then the sheer quality of debate in the Lords . it reflect just how significant our upper House be to our constitution in its ability to strengthen legislation through scrutiny . I particularly want to pay tribute to my noble Friend Lord True , who have do so much to hold the Government to account as they have push these measure through . the Paymaster General have talk about the Conservatives seek to block legislation in the Lords . I be absolutely delighted that we have be try to block their terrible legislation , and I be very pleased that the Lords have send the Bill back with a number of improve amendment that speak of the decent scrutiny that be be do in the other place . I agree with the Paymaster General at the outset that we accept the Government ' s concession on power of attorney . it be a sensible change , and I be glad that there be at least one issue on which we can find agreement . we be pleased that during the course of the debate the Labour party have make a number of significant and historic clarification to its position . it seem finally that the Labour party have agree that an elect upper House would be a bad idea . I personally welcome that ; I think an elect upper Chamber would totally disrupt the balance of our constitution . it would take away from the primacy of this House and often lead to constitutional deadlock . it have take the Labour party about 100 year to reach that conclusion , but I welcome it join the side of right . I be also very pleased that Gordon Brown ' s disastrous plan for constitutional reform , which be publish during the last Parliament , have be do away with . they would have cause utter mayhem have they be push through by this government , so I commend those on the Front Bench for kick Gordon Brown ' s terrible idea into touch . I be pleased to see that the Government have renege on their manifesto commitment to kick out peer who be over 80 . it be a terrible idea , and I be very pleased that they have see good sense . there be a lot of excellent peer who be over 80 , such as Lord Dubs and , by the end of this Parliament , Lord Blunkett , Lord Clarke , and Lord Heseltine — people who have add to the richness of the House , who bring their experience and who should not be bar on the ground of age . I congratulate the Labour Government on have admit their terrible mistake . I turn now to Lords amendment 1 . the House of Lords have , understandably , introduce an amendment that would keep the exist hereditary peer in place . we have hear already from my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) how the Labour party have renege on the deal that it strike in the late ' 90 that be go to keep a small number of hereditary peer in place until such a time as it bring forward a comprehensive constitutional reform package , which this clearly be not . this be a fascinating return to the ' 90 — like much about the conservative party — but I think the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have miss the fact that there be an election last year in which the Labour party clearly win a mandate to deliver the removal of hereditary peer . what may or may not have be discuss in the 1990s be for the bird . there be an election . we win that election . we say we be go to do this . let ' s get on with it . I fully accept that the Labour party have change its mind , but in do so it have renege on the deal that it strike in the late ' 90 . let we be clear about what be happen . the Labour Government be now seek to remove a whole group of public servant who have do nothing wrong — will the hon . member give way ? sit down . those public servant be in the Lords because the last Labour Government put they there as part of the deal that it strike on long - term constitutional change . I obviously declare an interest as my wife be a Member of the House of Lords — and a salaried Minister , for good fortune . the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster recognise that the Labour party win an election but be talk about deal that go back far . do he not realise that he risk undermine the Salisbury - Addison convention , which say that manifesto commitment should pass through the other place without hindrance ? I know that the hon . Gentleman aspire to be back in government one day . do he not recognise that by do down that convention , he risk his own future legislative programme should the Conservatives ever get back into power in future ? the hon . Gentleman will understand that this legislation be not be block but improve . that be what Parliament do , and that be how the process of scrutiny work . he will see very clearly that the amendment make significant improvement to the faulty legislation that his party bring forward . I thank the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his indulgence . he say that Lords amendment 1 make a significant improvement to the Bill . why , then , when it be bring forward in the other place by Lord Grocott as a private Member ' s Bill and in this place by David , now Lord , Hanson , do the Conservatives block it and say that it be a terrible idea ? I do not recall we say that it be a terrible idea . I distinctly remember many conservative peer speak in favour of it actually , but that be part of the joy of the independence of the upper House , which , as I will shortly explain , risk be undermine by this legislation . what the Government be now try to do be remove a group of public servant who have do nothing wrong and who have simply serve their country and continue to do so . the reason they be be remove be very clear : the Government can not rely on their vote . consequently , they be attempt to take a group of opponent out of Parliament by Act of Parliament . this be simply cromwellian . I be not suggest that the Prime Minister be a second Cromwell . Cromwell be a great man — a " brave , bad man " as Clarendon say — while the Prime Minister be just a man . I do not believe that the Government have cromwellian intent . they be do something clumsy and foolish , but — I mean this seriously — what they be do will set a precedent . I do not believe it be a route that the Paymaster General would follow , but the people who come after he may be much more like Cromwell than he . [ interruption . ] there be laughter from behind the Paymaster General , but I want we to think seriously about what future parliament might look like . if the precedent be set that political opponent can be remove by Act of Parliament , someone in the future , even if maybe not tomorrow , in two year or in 10 year , will point back to this — I guarantee it . it do not need to happen this way . we have a group of people already in the House of Lords and already do a job . take Viscount Stansgate , who be an excellent member of the House of Lords and Deputy Speaker . as I be sure hon . member know , there be 65 hereditary peer who sit on parliamentary Committees , so this change will be enormously and unnecessarily disruptive to the working of the House . it would be much well to leave they in place and let they do their job . on that point , I think of peer such as Patrick Courtown , the Opposition Deputy Chief Whip , who have serve in the other House since 1975 in a number of ministerial capacity . that be because of where he be bear , but there be a risk in see member laugh about rich and privileged hereditary peer . this be not " Downton Abbey " any more , and many of these people have give their life to this Parliament . do my hon . friend agree that should the Government get their way this afternoon , there need to be an urgent conversation about support for those hereditary peer who may suffer after lose their position in the other House ? the Minister raise his eyebrow , but many peer in that House be not stately home owner but people who have give their life and position to this Parliament , and they will need support go forward . I be interested in my hon . friend ' s excellent point , and I hope the Minister will respond to that in his closing remark . what we will see be the removal of a group of public servant to make way for Labour placeman and labour stooge — a huge act of patronage . I do not think anybody here believe that will improve scrutiny . it be just a number game . it be simply an attempt to give the Government a more compliant majority in the House of Lords , which they do not need . the Government will be able to get their business through the House of Lords anyway , so this be an unnecessary change that , despite the comment of the Paymaster General , belittle the contribution of the peer who already sit . it belittle their service , and it do not need to be do . I turn to Lords amendment 2 , on pay . I be interested by the Paymaster General ' s response and listen closely to the detail he set out . there be an important principle here . we ask people to serve as Ministers of the Crown , and I think most of our constituent would agree that those Ministers should be pay . member of the House of Lords be on no salary . they can collect their £ 361 a day if they turn up , but let we assume that one such Member be an unpaid Minister in the Home Office . they will find that on many work day they will be expect to travel — perhaps to Northern Ireland , Scotland or the north of England — and they will not be able to collect their allowance . on top of that , for take on that important , unpaid job , they will also , for understandable reason , have to give up their outside interest . that mean simply that many people in the House of Lords can afford to take ministerial job only if they be already of considerable mean . I just do not think that the Paymaster General , in his heart of heart , want to see the perpetuation of that . if he do not agree with the Lords amendment , will he confirm whether the Government intend to bring forward comprehensive plan on that ? I will correct the Paymaster General on one small point of fact . he say that if Ministers in the House of Lords be pay , we would need to reduce the number of Ministers in the House of Lords as only a certain number of Ministers can be pay . rise — I will let the Paymaster General intervene if he want to provide clarity on that technical point . it be a consequence of the interaction between the exist statute and this statute . I be not argue for that ; I be say that that would be the effect of the Lords amendment . with the amendment , what the Government could do be reduce the number of pay Ministers in the Commons and have more pay Ministers in the Lords . that would be possible under the Lords amendment . do the shadow Minister honestly think that I could go back to my constituent in Lichfield , Burntwood and the village and say that by support the amendment , as he be encourage I to do , there would be more Ministers from the other place and few from the Commons ? how do he think that would go down on a doorstep ? I have be punch in the face , and it be not great . I be not sure whether his voter would be that impressed by the Ministers in the Commons at the moment , to be honest . the point of principle still stand : if somebody be a Minister of the Crown , it be perfectly reasonable that they should be pay for do that job . I would be interested to know what the Government ' s plan be to right that wrong . finally , on Lords amendment 3 , which cover a new status of peer , it be unfortunate to hear some hon . member belittle the idea , include the sleepy , dreamy hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) from the Liberal Democrats . [ hon . member : " Dreamy ? " ] I appreciate how that come out , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I do not wish — [ interruption . ] if the shadow Minister wish to correct the record , please , feel free . [ laughter . ] well , I don ' t know — he look like he have make an effort today , and he be look at I in a particular sort of way . there be a suggestion that everyone be bust a gut to create a new status of peerage when it be unnecessary . let we put it this way . I think a lot of people in our country recognise that get a peerage be one of the high recognition for service to the country , but there be also a good many people whom I come across when I be a Minister deal with the honours process who be either late in age — in their 80 or 90 — or infirm and would not want to commit to serve on the red Benches because of that . it seem a bit silly that such a small change should deny they the opportunity of recognition , which cost no one anything but enable we to reward good people who have do the right thing by their country . do the shadow Minister think that the Order of the Garter , the Order of the Thistle and the order of the British Empire be not sufficient to recognise such people ? the House of Lords should be a work Chamber shape our public life . the hon . Gentleman make a good point — there be other type of honour — but we already have peer who have stand down , and they get to keep their title . they be call member of the Lords but do not sit in the Lords , so the disjuncture already exist . [ interruption . ] would the Paymaster General mind pass I the water ? I have get a terrible throat . we already have peerage that work the other way round . we be suggest that it ought to be possible for somebody who be perhaps in advanced year or not well to accept a peerage without feel that they be under an obligation to go and sit on the red Benches . that be a perfectly reasonable request . rise — go on — one more time . I thank the shadow Minister for give way to I for a third time . I presume what he be suggest be more about the title and the style than about a seat in the legislature . he will know that under the 2011 royal warrant that grant the justice of the Supreme Court the style and title of Lord , that do not come with any connection whatsoever to the legislature . so there be a way of do what he suggest that do not require the Lords amendment : it can be do via royal warrant through an order in Council . the hon . Gentleman be very well informed , and he be exactly right . this amendment , as be discuss in the Lords , would add clarity to the process and mean that it would become more routine than occasional . in that , however , he be entirely right . I will conclude by say that good amendment have be send back by their Lordships ; amendment that improve this Bill in more way than one and which would keep the considerable skill and expertise of the hereditary peer on the red Benches for a little time long . they would not prevent the Labour Government from bring in more peer if they want to and they also raise important question about ministerial pay and how we use our title . I be very pleased that we have reach common ground on the issue of advocate power , and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . lord amendment 1 seek to gradually reduce to zero the number of excepted hereditary peer in the other place by end the election by which they be replace . our rich constitutional democracy have benefit from century of gradual evolution , and our democracy have thrive because power be not concentrate in the hand of too few people , which have mitigate the risk of overreach . even though frustration be frequently express , our parliamentary system be rightly admire around the world . several current excepted hereditary peer reside in my constituency . along with other excepted hereditary peer , they make a valuable contribution and be motivate by public service . when I stand for election to this place and promise I would campaign for local job , I be not think about the hereditary peer of Mid Derbyshire necessarily , but here we be today . reform of the House of Lords have be on the agenda for a very long time and there be broad consensus that it should happen . indeed , it be tell that the last Conservative Government do not seek to undo the reform make by the previous Labour Government in 1999 . from its origin in the 11th century , the House of Lords have undergo numerous change , include a period when the Lords Spiritual be remove between 1642 and 1661 and the 11 year during which the other place be abolish altogether , from 1649 until the restoration of the monarchy in 1660 . More change follow , include when legislation be pass in 1958 to create life peerage for people with specific skill and expertise to enhance our democratic process , and that include admit woman for the first time . that spirit of reform be further by the last Labour Government in 1999 when the number of hereditary peer be limit to 92 , free seat for people with a range of different experience and expertise , regardless of their lineage . the principle of the reform the Government be push through today be not necessarily controversial , and Lords amendment 1 do not seek to block the principle of end the involvement of excepted hereditary peer . instead , it ask for the conclusion of their participation to be undertake more gradually , and I believe there be some small merit in what that amendment seek to do . I have be lucky to work with some exceptional excepted hereditary peer on joint Committees and all - party parliamentary group . to end their involvement at the end of the Session , rather than perhaps at the end of the Parliament , risk destabilise some of the good work that be ongoing through some of those parliamentary vehicle . will the Minister therefore explain in his sum up whether he have consider different way of manage that transition ? for instance , we could seek to end the involvement of the excepted hereditary peer at the end of this Parliament , rather than just ahead of the next King ' s speech . that might ensure that the professional relationship we have foster with our colleague in the other place , and the piece of work we conduct together with they , continue to be fruitful , conclude with a natural cadence at the end of the Parliament . although I know the Bill have be tightly draft to deal with the role of excepted hereditary peer only , the Government have plan for wide constitutional reform of the House of Lords , which may come before we at a later stage . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to introduce a participation requirement . it be not right that people should use the other place as a social club or a facility that they can use . it be a work Chamber , and people should be in there do the job to which they have be appoint . the Government have also say that they seek to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation . even though it be key that the other place represent the rich social and geographical diversity of the United Kingdom , it be also essential that the House of Commons remain the principal forum where issue be consider through the lens of locality . the House of Lords , certainly since the introduction of life peerage in the 1950 , have be a vehicle to include the voice and perspective of expert across a wide range of field , rather than a focus on locality . I encourage my colleague to reflect before introduce such a fundamental change to that relationship . the manifesto that the Government and I be elect on include a commitment to introduce mandatory retirement from the House of Lords at the age of 80 . I would welcome clarification from the Dispatch Box as to whether that remain the case . although it be necessary to get more young voice into the House of Lords to enhance its ability to represent and serve the nation , the proposal that peer should retire at 80 would mean we would lose the contribution of Lord Kinnock , who be 83 , Lord Dubs , who be 92 , and Baroness Beckett , who be give a peerage by this Government age 81 . a peer may reach their 80th birthday while work on a piece of essential legislation or lead a Committee . the House could therefore benefit from further clarity , if we be to pursue this , about how a mandatory retirement age could affect disruption to business and risk lose essential knowledge and expertise . will the Minister also share any information , either in his sum up or in the very near future , about how the Government ' s plan for constitutional reform see the future of the Lords Spiritual , one of whom be also my constituent , in any further shake up of the other place ? my advice to the Government , as they rightly seek to make the House of Lords more representative and effective , be that they should tread carefully to avoid unintended consequence . our precious democracy deserve no less . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats welcome the Bill as a first step to give the House of Lords a great democratic mandate and entrench its valuable role within the constitution and legislature of the United Kingdom . our democracy rely on a Parliament that equally represent all citizen of the United Kingdom , and that be why the abolition of hereditary privilege in our second Chamber be a long - stand policy of the Liberal Democrats . we have call for this reform for decade and be pleased that the Government be take step to address this issue . for too long , Parliament ' s second Chamber have lack the democratic mandate that would give it real impact within our legislature . inherit membership of the Lords only weaken our democratic institution and decrease public trust in our system . furthermore , it reinforce the gender imbalance in the second Chamber . as I note in previous debate on this bill , not a single one of the hereditary peer currently sit in the Lords be woman . actually , I be take a quick look around and I think I be the only woman here , so it fall to I — [ interruption . ] that be apart from Madam Deputy Speaker ; I beg your pardon . it fall to I to underline how important the democratic role of woman in both our Houses of Parliament be . I also note that this reform be not about invalidate our tradition , nor discredit the contribution of many hereditary peer over previous decade . it be about improve democracy and restore public trust in politic by make Parliament more representative . many hereditary peer have expertise and skill that they have give to our political system and to our legislative process . as I turn to today ' s Lords amendment , it be disappointing yet perhaps unsurprise that after year of delay and resistance from successive conservative government , they continue to resist meaningful electoral reform . their propose amendment would only water down the Bill or waste further time prolong the existence of a flawed system . I therefore wish to speak against Lords amendment 1 , which would dilute the Bill and continue the system of hereditary peer . instead of meaningful reform , it opt for an underwhelming ban on by - election for hereditary peerage . in practice , that would have the effect of leave all current hereditary peer in place indefinitely , thus continue this antique system for many year to come . for year , cross - party effort have attempt to end the by - election system for hereditary peer , despite successive conservative Governments resist this vital reform . now there be an opportunity to end the entire system of hereditary peerage , and the Conservatives once again continue to resist change . the Bill and the amendment be consider today highlight that the will of Parliament be to end the hereditary system in the Lords . there have be enough delay ; it be time to be decisive and to end hereditary peerage in entirety , here and now . we have the will , the power and the mean to end this anomaly before we today . there be no need for the amendment . I also wish to speak against Lords amendment 2 . as outline by Lord True , 14 Conservative Government - appoint unsalaried Ministers and Whips be in the Lords at the end of the previous Parliament , and Commons Library research confirm that since 2015 there have be at least 30 unsalaried Ministers and Whips in the Lords . today , the very same party that appoint they seek to champion the end of such appointment , as if they have not have the power to effect this change themselves on many occasion over the past decade . I draw member ' attention to the point eloquently raise by my excellent colleague the Lord Wallace of Saltaire in the other place regard potential anomaly that the amendment could allow . I want to focus on Lord True , who , in introduce the amendment in the other place , say that it would not apply to any exist member but only to future ministerial appointment in the Lords . give that all hereditary peer be current member of the Lords , I fail to understand what relevance the amendment have to the legislation in front of we . unusually , I happen to agree with Lord True that all minister should be properly remunerate , but I struggle to understand why a piece of legislation that aim to scrap the principle of hereditary peer be the appropriate vehicle to enshrine that point . the Lord True speak movingly of his shame and anger at be unable to provide remuneration to his fellow conservative during the last Parliament — I be not sure I completely sympathise . remuneration of Lords Ministers be an issue for another occasion . liberal Democrats believe that the solution to the issue of democratic accountability and proper remuneration of our Ministers do not lie in this poorly draft amendment . instead , we must push for wholesale reform of the House of Lords and our democratic system more widely , include devolve power so that the decision that affect people ' s life be make close to the place where they be put into effect . we therefore urge member to reject the amendment and instead work with the Liberal Democrats to introduce proper reform of the House of Lords and give it the democratic mandate it need . I also wish to speak against Lords amendment 3 . when the Bill come to the House , it represent an opportunity for a first step towards meaningful reform of the second Chamber . that be why I originally table new clause 7 , which would have commit the Government to future legislation on reform the second Chamber , and new clause 8 , which would have increase transparency in the second Chamber by strengthen the power of the House of Lords Appointments Commission . however , the Conservatives have demonstrate no interest in strengthen or improve our democratic and legislative institution . instead , their amendment create yet another type of peerage . it be an unnecessary amendment that do nothing to strengthen democracy or transparency . since Lords amendment 3 before we specifically call for a new type of peerage , it follow that it be not relevant to legislation that specifically and exclusively deal with the legacy of hereditary peer . if the Conservatives have proposal that could meaningfully improve our second Chamber , they should support liberal Democrat call for further reform of the House of Lords . I look forward to their support for our call to change the opaque appointment process for peer and to reduce the inflated size of our second Chamber . if the Government could update we today on their proposal for legislation for further reform of the House of Lords , then the Conservatives could put forward their proposal for new category of peerage . this House should look to be ambitious on political reform of the second Chamber . they should not look to expand a democratically flawed system with time - waste amendment . the Liberal Democrats will therefore be vote to reject this amendment . we welcome Lords amendment 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 9 , which be modest but important change that will improve how the House of Lords function . the amendment aim to support those peer who may lack capacity to fulfil their duty . last power of attorney have be effective in support individual ’ freedom and dignity , and it be only right that peer be not exclude from those freedom . we welcome those amendment and will support their introduction into this legislation . return to the Bill as a whole , liberal Democrats welcome its aim . however , we be concerned that by pass this Bill , the Government will believe that their effort can end here . let I be clear : this Bill be a welcome step towards a well democracy , but it should not be the final step . the 2017 Burns report recommend a decrease in the size of our second Chamber , which the Liberal Democrats support . the process of prime ministerial appointment entrench patronage and elitism within our politic , and the Liberal Democrats support move away from that system . labour ' s own manifesto commit to a retirement age for peer — another change that we would support . there continue to be so many opportunity to improve the functioning of our democratic institution . the Government should now look into those further measure , include what be the most overdue and important change when it come to the Lords : finally give it a proper democratic mandate . I urge hon . and right hon . member to oppose Lords amendment 1 , 2 and 3 , which would water down the Bill . the Liberal Democrats will support this once - in - a - generation opportunity to fix part of our broken political system and use it to strengthen democracy in our Parliament and begin rebuild trust in our politic . lord amendment 1 fly in the face of the intention of the Government and this House to immediately reform the House of Lords by remove the last 91 peer who sit in Parliament base solely on their bloodline entitlement . I start with the premise that the last 91 hereditary peer sit in the other place as a result of a compromise in 1999 , when more than 660 hereditary peer be remove . I take the view that the other place , and indeed this Parliament , be no less effective as a result . the very architect of that compromise , the Marquess of Salisbury , say himself that the arrangement be suppose to last for around six month . the final 91 have have an effective notice period of 26 year already — a notice period that any worker in the real economy would no doubt welcome . it be now time to complete this reform . for those seek to support the amendment , I ask , " where have you be ? " one of my predecessor as MP for Telford , my right hon . friend the noble Lord Grocott have continue to campaign on this issue for decade and have be vindicate at long last . he propose exactly the measure outline in the amendment — end the by - election to phase out hereditary peer — in four private member ' Bills over the last 26 year . each and every Bill be block by conservative peer and conservative Governments , so I do not believe that this amendment have be table in good faith . instead , the opposition be clutch at straw to prevent progress because they fear change . in a recent speech on the Bill , the noble Lord Grocott use the word " gestate " to describe the reform he try to introduce over the last 30 year or so . that be the right word : the opponent of these change know in the 1990 that they have lose the argument and that the good they could do be to slow down the inevitable — bog down reform with procedure and compromise . I agree with Lord Grocott that almost 30 year of gestation be far too long for anyone . this government ' s decision to finally lance the boil and remove the remain hereditary peer be long overdue , but it should be no surprise whatsoever that we face exactly the same kind of resistance now that our predecessor face 26 year ago . first , the Conservatives try to defeat the Bill ; when that fail , they try to compromise . back then , it be , " well , just keep a few hereditary peer . phase they out so the change isn ' t too sudden . " now they say , " you must keep the hereditary peer . phase they out so the change isn ' t too sudden . " somehow what be only ever intend as an interim solution be be replace by another interim solution . we have have 26 year to phase out the hereditary peer , and they be still there . frankly , the 92 remain hereditary peer have have 26 year of borrow time . in fact , we have hear from a Tory hereditary peer about the " repercussion " for this Bill — a threat that they will use obstruction and delay to get what they want . if that sound familiar to the House , that be because in 1998 that be exactly the same threat make to the then Government and the then Parliament . the Marquess of Salisbury say : " my whole tactic be to make their flesh creep " . we must resist this fearmongering , these underhand tactic , this opposition at all cost to the democratic process . those who have table Lords amendment 1 might say , " well , unlike the last compromise , this one will eventually see hereditary peer leave the other place . " but when ? they have already delay the inevitable by 25 year . will we have to wait another 25 , 26 or 30 year ? the youngest sit hereditary peer be just 39 year of age . I wish he a long and happy life — of course , I do — and if he survive to the age of the old sit hereditary peer , which be 93 , that would be another 54 year until the end of the interim solution that be agree 26 year ago . that be 11 general election from now . a Telford constituent bear the day the Bill become law — the day we start phase out hereditary peer — would be 80 year old by the time the last hereditary peer retire . that be enough time for that constituent to have retire from this House themselves . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . the work that Lord Grocott do on this in the other place be commendable , but it be sadly block time and again by the Conservatives . on my hon . friend ' s point about the young hereditary peer and the number of general election that may have pass before he will have see himself out , by no long be a Member of the House of Lords he would regain his right to vote and stand in general election , so if he wish to return to Parliament , there would be plenty of place in this House that he could try for . my hon . friend make a valid point . a point that have be make by other member , include from the Opposition Benches , be that there be nothing stop the Leader of the Opposition put forward any hereditary peer for life peerage . the hon . Gentleman say that the Leader of the opposition could give those peerage , but he will be aware that that be organise through the usual channel , in conjunction with the Prime Minister and member of the govern party . we would be a lot more comfortable talk about the replacement of hereditary peer if the Minister have come with any clarity on the condition that may be set go forward , but we have have none of that . I challenge the Minister to say that hereditary peer can be put in as life peer . we would like some more information on what we be get . the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point . this be about priority and choice . the Leader of the Opposition will be able to nominate people this year and next year — and maybe the year after , if she be still in place . she can make a decision on whether to put forward a hereditary peer or someone else during that spell . I be sorry to intervene again , but this be an important point . since the general election , there have be 21 nominee to the other place . that would have count for half the entire hereditary peerage group of the Conservative party , have the Leader of the opposition take the opportunity to promote they to life peerage . by not do so , the Conservatives have choose to keep those hereditary peer out . the Leader of the Opposition have a number of tough choice ahead of she , and those choice will no doubt be execute use her good political judgment . to conclude , to right hon . and hon . member from different side of the Chamber who say that we need more reform of Parliament , the House of Lords , the constitution and the way in which the country work , I say — as a moderniser and the MP for an area for which the current system do not work — that I could not agree more . but this modest change — this slender Bill — have take around 10 hour in this place and 40 in the other place , with more than 180 amendment table , so imagine how a large and more far - reach Bill would be treat . as the Minister have state , many member from across the political spectrum in the other place have call for a cross - party approach , and that be exactly what the Government be do through the establishment of a Select Committee . let I close on this thought . we have hear for many decade the promise of future reform . I support and will vote with the Government today on the basis that those future reform will come through . I hope that the Government will be true to their word , and constituent like mine , who have see themselves lock out of this place for far too long , will have the opportunity to serve it . well , here we be again . the House of Commons and the House of Lords love debate reform of the Lords — we have be do it for over 120 year . but we have make a bit of progress : at least , after all this time , we seem finally to have kill off the idea that the House of Lords should be elect . that be a great step forward , and I congratulate the Minister on his wisdom in realise that that would just replicate the sort of system that they have in Washington and make it virtually impossible to have coherent government . I say well do ; I think that we should give credit where it be due . the poor old Liberals have be dream about reform with election for 100 year , but I be afraid that it be not go to happen . I will , though , take issue with the Minister for be a bit cruel about the Conservative party when he accuse we of have be relentlessly negative for all these year . he seem to have forget that in the 1920 — we have hear about 1924 — the conservative party lead the debate on make the House of Lords a genuine Parliament of the Commonwealth , and very innovative idea be come out of the conservative party . he blame the Conservatives for endlessly block reform , but it be actually the unholy alliance of Michael Foot and Enoch Powell during the Wilson year that block the last real attempt at House of Lords reform . the Father of the House mention conservative party policy in the 1920 and 1960 . maybe he can recall well than I , but I do not believe there be any mention of House of Lords reform in the conservative party general election manifesto last year . will he illuminate the House on conservative policy on reform the other place ? our policy be very sensible : gradual evolution and reform . that be what the conservative party be all about . this be an historic day , and it be a rather sad one . after the Crown , the House of Lords be the most ancient part of Parliament , and the hereditary peer be the most ancient part of the House of Lords Chamber . one can laugh at history and say , " this be all old hat , " but history be important . this all evolve from the Magnum Concilium , or Great Council , of England . the come together of England into a single realm be through the witan assemble by the King , comprise noble and prelate . bishop , abbot , ealdorman and thegn come from across the land . it be not just their privilege but their feudal duty — it be all about duty — to give the King counsel and consent . it slowly evolve so that some peer sit in Parliament by their office , such as the Bishop of Lincoln , or by their hereditary title , such as the Earl of Arundel . I repeat this point : I can not understand the contempt and hatred for people just because they have their office by virtue of heredity . the hereditary peer be the only people in the House of Lords who be actually elect by anybody . this be not about individual ; it be about the principle . do the Father of the House agree that it be the principle we should be talk about today , not the individual , however good they may be at serve in the other place ? frankly , I do not agree with that principle . as I say in an intervention on the Minister , this will leave the monarchy wholly expose as the only person who hold his office by reason of hereditary principle . will the Father of the House give way ? I will make a bit of progress . I know the Minister will say that the monarchy be popular — which it be — and that it do not have political power , but it have infinitely more influence than any hereditary peer . I do not think we should accept that the hereditary principle be entirely wrong . even if we accept that and say it be quite wrong that somebody should be call an hereditary peer , which I suspect be a lot of the problem , why do we not just make all the exist hereditary peer — who , as we have hear , be not stately home owner ; they be dedicate public servant , with score of they have work in Parliament for year — life peer ? give that they be dedicate public servant , if we hate the fact that they be call hereditary peer , why not have an evolutionary form and call they life peer ? but we be not do that . lord amendment 1 , table by my party in the other place , be entirely sensible . rather than kick people out in a flash , the hereditary peer — which we could now call life peer , if it be the name that make people unhappy — could simply fade away . there be a lot of merit in old people gradually fade away rather than die . declare an interest ! I do not declare an interest . in a sense , that be already the case , as the Lords have suspend hereditary peer by - election by amend the Standing Orders of their Chamber . Evolution rather than revolution — bend instead of breaking — be the usual method of british constitutional change . it have work very well in the past , and I do not see why it should not work now . it be far wise than overnight change . there be also the matter of optic and fairness . this , of course , be a partisan point by its very nature , but of the 86 remain hereditary peer , 48 be member of opposition party — conservative or Liberal — 31 be independent Cross Benchers , and two be totally non - affiliated . briton pride themselves on the spirit of fair play . it be not , frankly , cricket for a govern party to expel Opposition Members from the national legislature . as Lord Strathclyde point out , if any other country be do this — expel member of Parliament primarily because they be from Opposition party — we would be launch petition against it . I thank the Father of the House for give way . he make a compelling point about other country . would he care to name some other country that have people sit in their legislature , able to introduce and vote on legislation , entirely by dint of their parentage ? for the life of I , I can not think of many example . of course , nothing in our constitution be perfect . we would not be start here — we accept that . we be just say that this be a group of dedicated public servant who have do nothing wrong , and we be simply ask that they should be allow to carry on their work , rather than be kick out primarily because they be from Opposition party . will the Father of the House give way ? no . the hon . Gentleman be a very good chap , but he have have a lot of turn . we all know that the real reason behind all of this be that the Government want to make space for more of their donor and crony to enter the House of Lords , and that be entirely understandable . by the way , I think that there be sensible reform that could be make in the House of Lords and that there have be a lot of abuse . I think that too many people have be appoint to the House of Lords — this be where the SNP have a good point — who be donor and crony . we could have start by give real power to the House of Lords Appointments Commission , which should look not simply at people ' s propriety , but at their suitability . we hear criticism of some newly appoint member of the House of Lords who be very young . I think the Appointments Commission could consider the attribute of any aspire candidate , and ensure that the new membership of the House of Lords be take from the most distinguished part of the nation . it may be a fair point for another reform that perhaps we should not have people appoint for life . we have hear of somebody who be 39 or young . perhaps we should say that if someone be appoint to the House of Lords , they should serve for only 15 year or retire in that Parliament . there be always argument about age , but I agree with my hon . friend the shadow Minister and I be glad we get rid of the ageist principle — there be nothing wrong with people over the age of 80 , or indeed in their 70 — they be just as useful . indeed , a lot of people in their 80 and 90 do a brilliant job , and some people in their 30 or 40 be completely useless — not , of course , in this Chamber . I think I have make my point . I commend the Father of the House for everything he be say ; he sum everything up perfectly . this be constitutional vandalism , and it be destroy the continuity that have make this place so effective and so special for so many century . this be clearly be do with a political motivation , which I think be thoroughly wrong . if we make a constitutional reform , at very least the british people should have a say in a referendum . well , the Whip be look at I . he want I to sit down . my hon . friend have make the point brilliantly , and I shall now sit down . I rise to speak to all the Lords amendment , but I will go into more detail on Lords amendment 1 , 2 , 3 and 8 . I be pleased that the Bill be make progress , and I look forward to see it on the statute book as soon as possible . we be one step close to fulfil yet another manifesto pledge . I welcome Lords amendment 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 9 for the reason already set out . they will allow Members of the other place who lose capacity to retire with the dignity that they deserve . it be clearly a sensitive and complex problem , and I congratulate the Government on find a solution that receive unanimous cross - party support in the other place . I hope it will receive the same cross - party unanimous support in this place today . we have already discuss Lords amendment 1 and 8 , which propose to stop hereditary peer by - election and stop any vacancy be fill , although they would still allow current hereditary peer to stay in the Lords , allow their number to grow small and small as they gradually begin to leave . if pass , the amendment would leave the current crop of hereditary peer in the Second Chamber for year and year — indeed , in some case , as we have hear , for decade — but the entire purpose of the Bill be to remove they immediately , because of the principle that underpin our decision to make this change . I count a great many hereditary peer among my friend , and I know that they do excellent job . however , Britain stand , alongside Lesotho , as a complete anomaly in the 21st century by preserve legislative role base on lineage . serve in this House , as in any other , be a privilege of the high order . do the hon . Gentleman agree that our legislator should be there on the basis of merit rather than DNA ? I congratulate the hon . Lady for have so many friend in the other place . I could not agree with she more — it be almost as if she have read my speech and hence make she timely intervention . if the hon . Gentleman agree that the hereditary principle be wrong and that no one should be in this Parliament by dint of dna , surely he be say that we should abolish the monarchy . the Crown be part of this Parliament and Royal Assent be part of the legislative process . if we go by his principle , the hon . Gentleman be basically say that the monarchy itself be no long relevant . be that what he be say ? all I would say be , " long live the King . " what we do with our hereditary peer today do not affect what we do with our monarchy . as I be say , no one should serve in the other place and make our law simply because of the family that they be bear into . no one should — not they , not I , not my child and not theirs . that be a basic principle that I hope we can all get behind . the hon . Gentleman ' s case , in essence , be that the only form of legitimacy in the exercise of power be democratic legitimacy , but that do not square with the exercise of power in all kind of other way , do it ? we do not elect our judge — some country do , but we do not . we do not elect all kind of people who exercise fundamental power . many kind of legitimacy be not democratic legitimacy . surely he acknowledge that , have the Government come forward with a proposal that allow the hereditary peerage to wither on the vine , it would be hard for anyone in the House to disagree , give that the Government have a manifesto commitment . the principle I be talk about applie specifically to the two Chambers that make and scrutinise our law , submit amendment and so on . the idea that some people should be allow a say in that process because of the family they be bear into be alien to I . the House of Lords should have be abolish year ago . I be glad that the Government be finally take the step to remove that principle . I be certain that decent argument can be make for the contribution of hereditary peer be good one , often with the nuance and expertise that come with dedicated service in the other place . I have no doubt that we will hear such argument today , but the same be true of those who be appoint as life peer — at least when political party fulfil their responsibility and choose appropriate people for the role . life peer , too , will go on to make excellent contribution and scrutinise our law carefully use their relevant expertise and knowledge — give that they be often select because of their expertise and knowledge , and not in the cynical way that the shadow Front Bench and other be suggest early . even if they do not , it be a life appointment , not one base on blood that they can pass down to the next generation , so I think that the system of life peerage be the well way to go . if Opposition Members genuinely believe that the hereditary peer who will lose their place because of this legislation should still be in the other place , they can ensure that the Leader of the Opposition , whoever that be , submit their name to make they a life peer . the hon . Gentleman make the point extremely well , and I think that people with a mind to compromise would like to go down that road , but do he recognise that the usual handful of allocation will not be enough on this one - off occasion to meet the requirement that he have so ably outline ? More than 20 position be available already and , as time go on , more will become available . it will be up to the Leader of the Opposition to make that decision . do my hon . friend agree that the Labour party manifesto state clearly that we will abolish hereditary peer ? be we not to do so , the people of this country would simply be bewilder . my hon . Friend make the point extremely well . I have have to deal with this on a number of issue , include introduce vat on private school , for example , where member come to this place , argue the point and say that we have no right to do it — yet it be in our manifesto , so we have a moral obligation to pass this legislation . I hope that Opposition Members will join we in the lobby as we do so . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) chunter from a sedentary position , but I be more than happy to take an intervention , if he wish to make one . if the hon . Gentleman believe that the Labour party have a moral obligation to implement every part of its manifesto , how do he feel about the bit that it have already ditch ? the Labour party have a moral obligation to fulfil our manifesto pledge , and I be confident that during our five - year term we will make great progress on everything that we set out in that document . I have argue that Lords amendment 1 undermine the core purpose of the Bill and be entirely inconsistent with our commitment to remove hereditary peer from the other place . lord amendment 2 be an attempt to ensure that in future all minister who sit in the House of Lords be pay a salary . have read Lords Hansard , I know that this be a well - intentione amendment and I can see why the Lords have submit it . however , ministerial salary be determine by the Ministerial and Other Salaries Act 1975 , so any proposal to change they should be make through amendment to that Act rather than through this Bill . this Bill be specific , narrow and focused . if we want to have a conversation about those salary , we need to allocate far more time to that and consider separate legislation , so I will not be support Lords amendment 2 . I have to do quite a bit of read around the subject to understand Lords amendment 3 . I understand that Lord True , the leader of the Opposition in the House of Lords , want to clarify the power of the monarch to confer a life peerage that be grant without a right to a seat in the House of Lords . the creation of a new form of life peerage without any kind of parliamentary responsibility be unnecessary — I will take intervention , as I be happy to have this point clarify — because , quite simply , the King already have that power . he use it when he grant his brother , Prince Edward , the title of Duke of Edinburgh . therefore , the power already exist and the need to clarify that power be unnecessary . Lord True mention that the newly clarify power could be use to honour people without swell the rank of the House of Lords . however , as we have already hear , if we want to recognise special contribution to public life , there be already plenty of way to do that , such as knighthood , damehood , obe , cbe and so on . I maintain that life peerage should be reserve for those who actively participate in the work of the House of Lords , and I therefore urge the House to disagree with Lords amendment 3 . speak about Lords reform more broadly , which have come up during the debate , I be pleased to read in Lords Hansard that Baroness Smith have suggest that a Select Committee , set up in the other place , could be use to examine a mandatory retirement age and minimum participation requirement , which I know many member in this House support . the suggestion include a timeframe : set the Committee up within three month of the Bill receive Royal Assent and it will report back next year , so we can make real progress on the other commitment . I wholeheartedly endorse that approach and look forward to the outcome of this work . the hon . Gentleman be be generous with his time . I be inclined to agree with he about the appointment of life peer who do not sit . I do not know the view of member on the Government Front Bench on that , but the hon . Gentleman make a good and valid argument . if people do not attend , it be sensible that they should not retain their right to do so . if people be appoint to the House of Lords and then never turn up , there be a good argument that there should be a point at which they should be tell that they no long have that title . however , on the matter of retirement on the ground of age , this be a very dicey business , give that we have legislation that prohibit discrimination on the basis of age . the right hon . Gentleman ' s point be well make and I will be follow the work of the Select Committee closely . we have already hear name mention of people who be over the age of 80 and still make great contribution , so I will follow the Committee ' s work closely before make a final judgment on the issue . more broadly than the work that the Committee will undertake , once this Bill have become law , I will continue to advocate for a second Chamber that be more representative of our nation and region . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) , who be no long in his place , make a good point about expertise and not want to lose the expertise in the other place by increase the proportion of people from other region . Yorkshire and the Humber be home to 5 . 8 million people , and the suggestion that we can not find expert within 5 . 8 million people be not necessarily a good one . I be not suggest that he say that , but there be still space to increase representation from our nation and region without dilute the expertise that we find in the other place . it be not wrong to say that it be clearly easy for somebody to be a Lord and serve in the other place if they already have a base in London , and the figure bear that out . if we look at the Lords ' own survey , we see that they show the breakdown of where each Lord come from . about a quarter of they come from London , about 20 % come from the south - east and only around 5 % come from Yorkshire and the Humber , despite my region be home to 9 % of the population — I be round up there , so forgive I for that . what about Scotland ? the hon . Gentleman chunter from a sedentary position . when it come to Scotland , the figure be about 2 % or 3 % — I can not recall the actual figure , but I will check . the point remain that we have to make the House of Lords more representative of our nation and region . we could address this issue in a piecemeal way , in the same way that we have address the hereditary issue over many decade . we could slowly introduce reform after reform on who get appoint , where they come from , what proportion have to come from Yorkshire and so on , but I be not a fan of that approach . we should be as bold as possible and do the difficult work now , because we be elect to do the difficult work in this term and set out an ambitious plan for the wholesale replacement of the other Chamber , ready to be make up of people from all our nation and region . it should be a truly democratic body that draw on the same golden thread that should always exist between the people we serve in this place and those who should sit in a second elect Chamber . [ interruption . ] hon . member chunter that this point be off topic ; I probably agree , because the Bill do not cover that . I will draw my remark to a close . the Bill in front of we will remove the archaic right of somebody to sit in Parliament because of the family they be bear into ; I find that principle very hard to disagree with . the Bill show our determination to make our democracy strong and more representative , and it should be just the start of our commitment to reform the other place and improve our ability to do what we be all send here to do : serve the public . I find this to be quite a curious debate thus far . there be not any great energy among member on the conservative Benches ; I fully expect and anticipate that they would be down here in great number to defend their noble colleague . I think there be only one conservative speaker leave — I look forward to the remark of the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) . there be not the usual energy in the speech of the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) ; I just do not know what be miss . there be a sense that they can not be bother defend this issue any more , which be a good thing . I be also begin to detect a little bit of a drift between noble Lords in the conservative party in the House of Lords and Conservative Members here . I want to inject some energy . let I tell the hon . Gentleman why I be energetic about this matter . it be preposterous to abolish the hereditary peer in the House of Lords , on the basis that they give good service that , as I have already describe , legitimately can be derive from a variety of source . many of they be disproportionately active in that Chamber . I accept that there be a manifesto commitment , but this could be do in a much more measured , sensible and moderate way . be that enough energy for he ? that be the way to do it . I hope the rest of the member on the conservative Benches be pay close attention , because that be how they defend the indefensible conservative peer . I have detect one other thing in this debate . there seem to be a concession that there will not be a democratic second Chamber — I have not hear that properly yet , so perhaps the Minister can clarify in his sum up . that be imply and suggest , and I have not hear anything thus far that contradict it . perhaps we could hear the Minister say that that idea be now go , because I do not think that there will be any more reform than this . I think this be it ; I say in the early stage of the Bill that this be as far as Lords reform go in this Parliament . the great , Gordon brownian vision of a senate of the nation and region be totally for the bird . it be some sort of fever dream ; it be not go to happen . this Bill be all that this House will do about Lords reform . I find the amendment to be a snivel , contemptuous bunch of amendment . they demonstrate the Lords ' contempt for parliamentary democracy and for the democratic will of this House — we , the Members of Parliament who be democratically elect to represent the people of this country . this House pass the Bill with a large majority , and for all its fault , this Government say that they would pass it . it be a manifesto commitment , so they should be allow to get on with it , but since then , the Lords have do everything possible to thwart the Bill . barely have we finish vote before the Conservatives in the House of Lords commence their " save the aristocrat " campaign . for they , the principle of democracy through birthright be something that have to be defend and protect . since the Bill go down the corridor , those peer have try to delay it through filibuster , keep the Lords up half the night and stack the Bill full of amendment . it only have two page , but they spend 52 hour and 10 minute debate it ; it only have four clause , but 154 amendment be table to it . defend the hereditarie be much more important to the House of Lords than address thing like poverty , grow the economy or global conflict . I pay real attention to its hansard , and some of the contribution be truly bizarre . the oozing sense of entitlement from our upper and ruling class be simply extraordinary . the thing that get I be when those contribution start to get a little threaten — I think the Minister imply this . the noble Lord True warn that if the purge go ahead , we would face very aggressive procedural action , which could involve filibuster , wreck amendment and , even bad , the parliamentary nuclear option of more ping - pong . he say that this toff rebellion would only be stand down if a goodly number of the hereditarie be to remain . I do not know about you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be positively quake in my oiky boot . the prospect of a be - ermine banshee charge I with a vintage claret jug and snuff box practically terrify I half to death . the thing be , these peer really do believe that they be bear to rule — that their role in our legislature through birthright be a gift that we should be eternally grateful for . they have now return the Bill with these amendment , with the main one be to keep the aristocrat in place until death or retirement by reward they with a life peerage . that be not get rid of the hereditarie ; it be give they a retirement plan . after see these amendment , I just wish that we could introduce even more amendment ourselves . I would table an amendment that would get they out tomorrow . I would also be think about strip they of their land and title . [ interruption . ] I have get more — maybe a little bit of re - education , such as a couple of shift in Aldi or Lidl , live on the living wage for a week or , even bad , have they speak in regional accent just for a day . give that these peer have make this about public contribution — give that that be so important to they — how about handing over some of their mansion and castle for social housing ? there be a suggestion for how they could be publicly useful . I know that I be be a little bit comical , Madam Deputy Speaker , but what this do be endorse the view that the House of Lords be the most embarrassing , bizarre legislature anywhere in the world . this weird assortment of aristocrat , be - cassocke bishop , party donor , crony and placeman feel that they can continue with impunity , and they be probably right in that assumption . the aristocrat will soon be go — I do not think there be any real desire to defend they any more — but the other member of that circus will continue unabashe . they will continue to develop , grow and thrive . the House of Lords be increasingly go to become a House of patronage — a plaything for Prime Ministers . order . Mr Wishart , we be debate the amendment , not your vision for the future of the House of Lords . perhaps you should stick to the amendment . sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be get a little bit carry away . the amendment would ensure that the aristocrat remain in the other place , but they will not succeed in that aim — I think we have all sort of agree on that ; it look like they be go — but the rest of the strange assortment of people who we find in the House of Lords will still be there . it will become a House of patronage from the Prime Minister , and we be already begin to see that . some 57 new Labour peer have be introduce to the House of Lords since the last general election , and we have hear from the Guardian that dozen of new Labour peer be about to be introduce . that do not seem like a Government who be keen on even more House of Lords reform ; it seem like a Government who want to create a new set of Labour Lords at the expense of the hereditarie , and the public be thoroughly and utterly sick of it . only 21 % of the british public approve of the House of Lords in its current condition . Most want to see it abolish . certainly nearly everybody want to see the hereditarie go , and I support they in that vision . the Labour party promise , 115 year ago , to abolish the House of Lords . I think it will take at least another 115 year before we see the next set of reform . I will start by set out some context for why the Bill , though small , be so important and why I be delighted to be speak in its support . I will then address Lords amendment 1 , 3 and 8 directly . as have be mention in the debate , in 2024 , Labour promise to end the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the other place . in 2025 , that be exactly what the Government be deliver , and not a moment too soon . the principle at stake here be simple , and it be about the principle , not the process . no one should make law for the british people , claim a daily allowance or influence the future of this country purely on the basis of who their great - great - grandfather be . in my estimation , that idea belong in the history book , not in a modern democracy . it be incompatible with the Labour party ' s value and anathema to the value of the british people in 2025 . of course , the conservative party will resist . we have already hear diversionary tactic today , with talk about the Blair Government ' s reform in 1999 , when we all know that previous government do not bind the hand of future one . we have hear about next step and whether a statutory Committee or a Select Committee be the right thing to do . have ask the Opposition about their official policy , I be still unaware what it be . indeed , we hear from the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) about his concern that this be all a number game . I remind he that UCL ' s constitution unit have do the math . in fact , be the change to come into effect , the conservative peer would still be the large group of all the party in the other place — large even than the Cross Benchers . the Conservatives would see a minor reduction in composition from 34 % to 32 % . the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) mention that he be not supportive of an elect upper Chamber . I be still at a loss about exactly what a gradual change in the composition of the upper House mean . my hon . friend mention gradual change , which be apparently the policy of the Conservative party . do he agree that a six - month temporary arrangement that take a quarter of a century to overturn be the epitome of gradual ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . that be exactly the concern that I and many member on the Government Benches have . long - stand reform be well overdue . we also hear about the principle of monarchy , and mention be make of constitutional monarchy . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , be it right to say to I that I be go off topic when it come to a small Bill with a number of Lords amendment , when it seem like the hon . Gentleman be do exactly the same thing ? from what I recall , practically everybody else have do that , too . just to be entirely clear , it be the property right element of the hon . member ' s contribution that I think be beyond scope . I think all member — the House will be conscious that I have not be in the Chair very long — might like to stick to the scope of the amendment and what we be actually debate this afternoon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will come to the amendment very shortly . Mention be make of constitutional monarchy . a number of european country have constitutional monarchy that have a hereditary principle , but none of they have hereditary member in their Parliaments . Mention be also make of the hereditary principle for parliamentarian be somewhat unique , and of the principle of mandatory retirement at a certain age — indeed , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) mention it . of course , that principle also exist in the judiciary , and I do not see any objection there from a human right perspective . UCL ' s constitution unit find that a clear majority of the public — 60 % — want hereditary peer go for good . who can blame they ? the record speak for itself : not a single female hereditary peer have be elect in 66 year , over a third of hereditary peer be concentrate in London and the south - east , and by - election be so farcical that they verge on satire . by - election be in scope of Lords amendment 1 , which I will come to shortly . my electorate in Bolton West be about 76 , 000 elector . in July last year , 17 , 363 people vote to elect I as their MP in order to give they a voice in this Chamber . but in 2018 one hereditary peer be elect with a dozen vote — few than it take to become a parish councillor . as my hon . friend be give his eloquent and excellent speech , I be remind of a comedy series call " Blackadder " , in which such bizarre electoral practice happen on our television screen . it be a shame that they seem to be happen even today . my hon . friend make a very good point ; indeed , he talk of one of my all - time favourite comedy . it speak to the need for drastic reform of the other place , which be long overdue . in a Tory by - election in the other place , another peer assert that fellow member should vote for he because he " race on the Solent and garden enthusiastically " . the electorate for that vote be a grand total of 43 . these be not truly democratic contest . they do not seek to promote those with the very good talent and expertise to serve this country . such by - election lack the fundamental of what should be at the heart of this mother of Parliaments : transparency , accountability and scrutiny . since 1999 , there have be over 30 of these bizarre contest , all with vanishingly small electorate — a process that is , frankly , long overdue reform . they have all produce lawmaker by accident of birth , and that be the principle to which I and many member on the Labour Benches object . that be why I will be vote against the Lords amendment today . just to refresh my memory , which Government institute the arrangement whereby a certain number of hereditarie stay and the kind of election that the hon . Gentleman describe be introduce ? be it a Tory Government , or be it a Labour Government ? the right hon . Member will have hear I mention previously that previous government do not bind the hand of future government , and that this Bill be a manifesto commitment last year . that lead I on to the amendment that have come back from the other place . lord amendment 1 and 8 , table by the noble Lord Parkinson , propose end the by - election for hereditarie but retain the current cohort . the amendment would hollow out the Bill and perpetuate the very problem that we be try to fix . I urge colleague in the other House to respect the Salisbury convention , which have already be mention today : this House have primacy on election - win manifesto pledge . conservative colleague have ample opportunity this afternoon to confirm that they respect that constitutional convention , and I wait with bated breath to hear they speak to that , but we can not scrap only the by - election process . as I say , it be the principle of hereditary peer that be so objectionable , which be why I will be vote to make sure that this Bill get on to the statute book . many hereditary peer have make valuable contribution — I have work alongside some already in the short amount of time I have spend in this place — but those who want to continue serve can and should do so on merit . they can stand for elect office , they can be nominate for life peerage , and HOLAC can continue to recommend strong Cross - Bench candidate . this Bill be not an attack on individual ; it be an attack on the medieval principle of privilege by birth . no one should sit in our Parliament because of the deed of their ancestor century ago . lord amendment 1 and 8 be not about accountability and they be not about democracy . they be patronage dress up as Parliament , and the Conservatives , in 14 year in office , do absolutely nothing to change the hereditary principle . lord amendment 3 , from the noble Lord True , be about so - call non - sit peerage . let we be clear : peerage should not be sinecure . if the idea be simply to allow hereditary peer to retain their title without sit , what social value do this amendment provide ? if we want to honour people ' s contribution , we already have a system for that — the honours process , with knighthood , cbe and mbe — as the Paymaster General stress . this amendment look less like reform , and more like a way of preserve influence . we have already see the pattern with title hand out as bargaining chip or reward for party donation . this debate have be quite good - humour , but I do have to flag the conservative party ' s tradition of ennoble its treasurer . I take no pleasure in quote this , but as one former conservative party chairman admit in 2021 : " once you pay your £ 3 million , you get your peerage . " that be not public service ; it be politic for sale , and it be exactly what the public be feed up with . in summary — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way on that final point . yes , there be of course some appalling practice with the Conservatives reward their donor with peerage , but do the hon . Member not remember cash for honour ? there be a police investigation , and Tony Blair be actually question by the police . this go on in all party , and each of they be a disgrace . in summary , this Bill be about rebuild trust in politic . it be about end practice that belong to the 18th century , not the 21st . it be about show the british people that Parliament work for they , not the privileged few . let I also say that this Bill be just the beginning , and I be committed to wide reform of the second Chamber : to improve its national and regional balance ; to introduce , yes , a mandatory retirement age ; to require meaningful participation ; and , ultimately , to replace it with a more modern second Chamber fit for the 21st century . that be the path to a fair , more accountable and more democratic politic . it be what Labour promise , which be why I be proud to see the Government deliver on it . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 1 and 8 , and therefore against the motion , in two mind . I say in two mind because I find the unilateral removal of the hereditary peer without seek consensus , which be what a rejection of Lords amendment 1 would mean , both regrettable and exciting . I would like to take each of these two polarising mindset in turn . my first emotion be regret . Britain have something of a Schr ö dinger ' s cat constitution . we be simultaneously a modern , plural and open democracy , and a kind of autocratic theocracy . our national motto , " Dieu and mon droit " — God and my right — point to the hereditary monarch be appoint by and accountable only to God . we have a state religion in England and Scotland , and in England the divinely appoint monarch be the Supreme Governor of the Church . the bishop , whom the King appoint , sit in our legislature , as do hereditary peer , who be the focus of the amendment . the King appoint the judiciary and be the commander of the armed force . on paper , as Labour Members have point out , the country with which we have most in common be the demonic Islamic Republic , but unlike Iran we have simultaneously free and fair election , broad debate in a free press , and freedom of religious and belief , and we be an open member of the international order . the point be that we would never design our tapestry of a constitution . in many way it be absurd , but it be organic . it be root in the millennia of history . in two year ' time , we will celebrate the 1100th birthday of England , the most remarkable nation on earth , which a majority of we in this place be fortunate to have win the lottery of life to be bear in . we should be respectful of that evolution , because that evolve constitutional order have empirically serve we well . it be how it work in practice that matter , not how it look on the ideological grand planner ' s piece of paper . I be not surprised that my hon . friend be make the speech that he be , because he understand that , essentially , our system be an organic one . constitution be not write from a blueprint — they can be , but they be not in this country — and what he be describe be a blend of democratic legitimacy and the other form of the exercise of power . what the Government be propose be not a democratic House of Lords , but an appoint House . that in itself contradict some of the speech make by Labour Members . my right hon . friend be right . our national story have bring we to a place where this House be rightfully dominant among the three part of Parliament in exercise the sovereignty of the King in Parliament , but we should be careful of the wholesale execution of one of those arm . let we be clear : that be what the unilateral removal of the hereditary peer would do . the other place without they be no more a House of Lords than my terrace house in Sunninghill be . a cromwellian purge , it would leave that place the preserve of political crony and fail adviser . be that what we want ? be that progress ? the House of Lords today be difficult to justify , but it work . this place have the attention span of a tiktok - addled teenager , as we jump to half - hourly news cycle drive by Twitter and roll news . my hon . friend be make the correct argument . the hereditary peerage in the House of Lords represent continuity in our country and wisdom throughout the age . Most of the House of Lords be appoint , but that hereditary element be vital as part of the mix of our very successful parliamentary constitution . my hon . friend ' s point be right , and I thank he for it . we walk through the Division lobby , direct by the whip , often have have no time , because of the impossible juggling act , to develop real knowledge of the topic in question or to think through properly the implication . some of the stuff that leave this place with a massive majority might have well be write in crayon . thank God for the other place . do not remove long - serve public servant and outstanding legislator . do not pick at the thread of our constitution . the other place be one of the part of our constitution which work well . we should retain Lords amendment 1 and 8 . I talk of a tension , a conflict in my thinking . I have try to articulate a deeply conservative instinct , but I also feel excitement , as I will explain . my view be that the british state be way off course , dangerously off course . it need deep and radical change . to take one issue , immigration , almost nothing be now too radical to consider . whether we look at the asylum system or legal migration , the radical change that the country need will be of significant scale . none of that will be possible in the Blairite constitutional straitjacket that be at direct odd with our historic constitution . that be a fascinating argument . the hon . Gentleman have argue in favour of the Lords for their restraint , and now he be argue in favour of the Lords because they allow radicalism . that do not make any sense . that be the tension that I be try to bring out . who would seek to frustrate such an agenda — the Lords might , in their current form . I find it exciting — and this be a warning — that a majority in this House , gain from 33 . 7 % of the vote on a 59 . 7 % turnout , which be almost exactly 20 % of the adult in this country , can remove their opposition from the other place . Labour Members may not agree with the hereditary principle , but who else do not get elect in the other place and can not be remove by election ? it be the life peer . I say honestly , the lack of respect you might have for a millennia - old principle , I have for a lot of the background — I reassure the hon . gentleman that I have plenty of respect for it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the point I be try to make to those on the Government Benches be that if a Government can expel their political opponent from the other place because the majority in this place say they be not elect , while place no limit on the Prime Minister ' s patronage , so can a new government — so take the compromise . be careful what you wish for . our constitution be indeed a very curious beast . nobody start from scratch would come anywhere near design what we have for this country — perhaps apart from the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , and some of those on the Benches behind he . it have evolve over the century in response to the political pressure that arise from time to time , and today be part of that evolution . as the constitution have change , our tradition have remain . I for one love a bit of tradition in this place , especially when it tell the story of how we have come to be where we be ; whether it be Royal Assent be signify in Norman French or the door of this Chamber be shut on the entry of Black Rod , it all tell a story . however , when tradition hold we back from the work we be send here to do , it become a barrier . that be why this Bill be introduce within the first 100 day of this Labour Government . we be elect on a clear manifesto commitment : to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the other place — a principle that be both simple and long overdue , as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . in the 21st century , we should have no place in our legislature reserve for those who be bear into certain family . it be an outdated and indefensible feature of our constitution , and last year the british people give we the mandate to change it . yet the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster claim this Bill be a cromwellian measure . be it not Oliver Cromwell who come into the Chamber of our predecessor and shut it down ? that be not what be happen here today . today , we be follow through on a democratic process , consult the people , and bring through a full Act of Parliament in both this and the other place . I will tell the hon . gentleman something that be far more cromwellian : only a few year ago , a conservative Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , force our late queen to prorogue Parliament . that be much more cromwellian than anything we be do today . the retention of hereditary peer after 1999 be mean to be a temporary compromise ; a quarter of a century later , it be time to finish the job . today we be nearly there but for some amendment from the other place , which I want to address — in particular Lords amendment 1 and 3 . just to get Cromwell right : it be Cromwell , rather like Boris Johnson , who end the Long Parliament by walk into this Chamber , so the parallel be probably close than the hon . Gentleman would like to suggest . Cromwell be a tyrant , really , in all kind of other way , who want his son to succeed he , so he believe in the hereditary principle . on the point of substance , the point about the House of Lords be that it be a check on the power of this place , and that be a helpful thing for government , actually , as sometimes government benefit from have to think again . the continuity that be be argue for from the Conservative Benches be part of a healthy constitutional settlement . if we sacrifice that settlement , I think we will get less good , rather than well , government . I agree wholeheartedly with the principle of a check on this place . however , that check must come with due wisdom and expertise . we have hear from the Conservative Benches about those century of wisdom , but wisdom can not simply be pass down genetically to people in the other place today . surely we need people in the other place who have expertise and be there on merit , not because of who their ancestor be . lord amendment 1 seek to amend the 1999 compromise of by - election to replace vacant hereditary peer by allow the cohort of hereditary seat to gradually reduce by natural departure . as my right hon . friend the Paymaster General have say , that amendment would effectively delay our manifesto commitment to end the hereditary element in the other place for many year to come . as I say early , this be about not individual or personality but ensure that our institution reflect the value of our modern democracy . I have see at first hand the important role of the second Chamber in scrutinise legislation and improve the quality of lawmaking , but that role must be base on merit and public service , not on birthright . if anyone watch today ' s debate be a hereditary peer — I see none up in the Gallery — and be dismay at the prospect of no long be able to contribute to the work of the other place , I say to they : do not be downhearted . anyone in principle , include ex - hereditary peer , should have the ability to serve as a parliamentarian if they be willing and able to do the necessary work — and work be the point here . do the necessary work bring I to Lords amendment 3 , which would effectively bring about a new tradition of create life peerage as honour in name only , with no work involve . what on earth be the use of that ? there be plenty of other honour , as we have hear , that his Majesty can bestow that would show due public recognition for service render to this country . the other place be not and should not be use as an honours board . it should be a work and effective part of our legislature — our Parliament . I believe that any parliamentarian come to this building to do the work , to hold or be hold to account , to raise issue that matter to the wide country and to pass good and workable law . when I be elect on that expectation by my constituent in Stevenage , that be the pledge I promise to uphold . although Members of the other place do not have expectation from constituent , I believe there be an expectation from the public as a whole that they be there to do the work of good parliamentarian . an empty life peerage title would only take away from that public expectation . these amendment complicate what be and should be a simple task before we : to deliver — finally — on end the principle of hereditary peerage and ensure that the other place be a work place in a Parliament that work for all the people . this have be a suitably fascinating debate . I do not plan to speak for too long , because the point have already be well make . we have have 10 hour here and 52 flippin ' hour in the House of Lords on this concise , four - clause Bill , and now we have a number of amendment . I will address Lords amendment 1 and 2 . lord amendment 1 be fairly straightforward up and down . we know what it be . it be a wreck amendment , pure and simple . it be nothing more than an amendment design to preserve the hereditary principle in the House of Lords — a principle that be an outdated anachronism that have no place in 2025 or any modern democracy . the only other comparable democracy be Lesotho . I do not know much about Lesotho , but I would quite like not to share this unenviable record with the good people of Lesotho for any long . the point have be make that if we do not want the hereditary principle in the House of Lords , perhaps that mean that we no long want the monarchy . nothing could be far from the truth . as all member in this place do , I swear an oath of allegiance to the King . I have not always be ardent monarchist , but I support a constitutional monarchy , and one of the many reason I do be because the monarch have absolutely no role in introduce law , in amend law or in voting on law . the monarch ' s role be quite clear and simple : Royal Assent . they do not obstruct the work of this place — rightly so — and yet we have hear so many time today about the guerilla warfare that be be lead in the other place against numerous piece of legislation in retribution against this simple removal of an anachronism . that be not what the King do . frankly , it be when monarchs have seek to obstruct this House that reference to Cromwell be relevant . that be not what the Bill do ; it be about remove the hereditary principle from the legislature that develop , scrutinise and deliver legislation . the King may sign it — that be his role . the point have be repeatedly make from the Government Benches that this be a matter of principle and that hereditary power be unacceptable . now , the hon . member be right that the King have no role in introduce legislation , and so on and so forth , but the King do have immense political influence . which labour Back Bencher meet the Prime Minister weekly to discuss the affair of state ? rise — Madam Deputy Speaker , the king of Stoke ! which labour Back Bencher receive a regular report from the whip on the proceeding of this House ? that be what the King have . the King rightly have power , and he derive his power by birth . I delight to inform the right hon . member about the parliamentary Labour party ' s Back - Bench committee , which meet the Prime Minister weekly when Parliament be sit . I see at least one of my hon . friend from the committee here — [ interruption . ] in fact , there be two here . staffordshire be well represent at the moment on the committee , and that be quite right — oatcake all round for they , and of course for the Prime Minister . rise — I will happily take a point in a second from my hon . friend , which I presume will be on the Lords amendment and not on oatcake , but I wish to respond fully to the point make by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) before I get so distracted . I apologise for that self - distraction , Madam Deputy Speaker . the role of the Lords in our legislature be quite clear , as be the role of the monarch . in fact , I speak this morning to student from Emmanuel college in my constituency about the three distinct part of our Parliament : this place , the other place and , of course , the monarch . but the principle under discussion be the ability to introduce , amend or vote on legislation . the King do none of those , so I see no contradiction on that important point of principle . I will now happily accept an intervention . I be grateful to my hon . friend , although the moment have pass slightly . I want to thank he for acknowledge the work of the PLP Back - Bench committee . I will happily bring he some oatcake from home on Monday morning . I thank my hon . friend , although I do not think that will help I with my diet . however , I be do the great north run on Sunday so I will probably need the calorie . I be happy that we be have the debate , but I be somewhat surprised by its tenor , which run contrary to the Salisbury convention — its correct name , of course , be the Salisbury - Addison convention ; we too often neglect the Labour Member of that important duopoly . it have be surprising — particularly so on Second Reading , when the former Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , lead for the opposition — that there have not be a more straightforward argument from the Opposition in favour of the hereditary principle , because it seem fairly clear that that be what they be argue for . I dare say there be a — probably dwindle — proportion of the electorate who wish to see the hereditary principle enshrine within those crucial aspect of our legislature in the scope of our discussion , but no Opposition Members appear willing to make that argument . I be afraid it be an act of constitutional contortion for they to say they merely wish to allow some people to serve out their time . if that be the case , why do we have election ? many wonderful public servant on both side of the House lose their seat at the last election ; but in this place we believe that , at the will of the people , any of we could be go — and that be quite right . the hon . member be make the point that any of we should be able to go , and I agree . should that not be the case for all parliamentarian and not just those in this House ? my long - stand view on reform of our Parliament can be look up by any member if they so wish . I very much welcome , both on Second Reading and from the Front Bench today , the comment on the future reform of the Lords and what that might look like . however , I dare say to the hon . Gentleman that we might agree on some specific aspect more than he imagine . there have not be much discussion of Lords amendment 2 , on Ministers ' pay . I welcome the conservative party ' s stout defence of work people and of ensure that people be pay what they be owe . we have also hear reference to equality law from the Opposition Benches , and I welcome that . I just think it be such as a shame that it be only be apply specifically and uniquely to hereditary peer . as Conservative Members well know , there be a limit on the number of Ministers who can be pay . I think that be right and I do not believe that now be the right time to expand the cost of our politic with more pay Ministers . however , if the conservative party believe , genuinely and deep down in its soul , that it need to have more pay minister , it have 14 year of Government in which it could have do that , rather than tack it on as a distraction from the issue at hand here , which be incrementally but crucially reform our constitution . I support the Government ' s position on all the amendment . let we get on with this . we have have 62 hour of debate — and counting . let we crack on . it have be 1 , 100 year ; I think it be time to cut it short . I draw attention to my interest on two front , in that my wife be a life peer in the House of Lords and a salaried Minister . and a very good one at that . yes , she be very good . I thank my hon . friend for that . I want to start by address some of the point that the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) make — he have leave . his characterisation of the House of Lords be grossly unfair . he characterise everybody who be a Member as be some sort of pocket - stuff hanger - on . I think that expose more about his particular brand of petty grievance politic than it do about the actual calibre of the individual down at the end of the corridor . regardless of party affiliation or whether they be independent or bishop , the member I have come across — in Committee or Joint Committee work , or in delegation when I be previously in the House be — good people who want to see the nation benefit and our country thrive and see good politic and good governance . the characterisation be often unfair and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire belittle his own position as a Member of this House . I intervene merely because my hon . friend be not here to defend himself , so I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . there be a number of fine people in the House of Lords and I have work with they in a number of way . however , democratic accountability should be at the heart . Labour promise to scrap the House of Lords in the first ever manifesto it produce over a century ago , so although his hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) might have be wait 1 , 100 year , we have be wait 110 year for Labour to fulfil its commitment to elect and give they that democratic mandate . without get draw into the debate on the right and wrong , I will say that if the Scottish National party have want an elect second Chamber , it could have have one in the Scottish Parliament but choose not to . there be thing about the way in which our democracy work that mean the SNP Members come down here simply to have a pop at this place for their grievance politic in Scotland . frankly , if the SNP spend more time think about how it could help the nation rather than its petty nationalism , we might be in a well place as a country and thing would be well in Scotland . in a point relate to amendment 1 , as my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) rightly point out , Lord Grocott have propose this Bill in the House of Lords numerous time over the past 20 year . he have try to get to the point when there could have be an opportunity over the past two decade for member who be here by virtue of the hereditary principle to be phase out over time . at every opportunity , it be block by the conservative party ; at every opportunity , it be talk out . when the Bill be introduce in this place , first by David Hanson and then by John Spellar , the conservative party oppose it , say that the principle be wrong and there be not enough reform . I therefore feel that it be slightly disingenuous now to propose something that the Conservatives have oppose for the past two decade as their solution to the problem that they themselves create by not accept it in the first place . it be slightly unfair , and it be a categorisation of their own politic that they seek to find way to frustrate the Bill because they have no option for themselves . on the somewhat spuriously suggestion that this be a way of neuter opposition in the other place , the number of conservative peer , even after the expulsion of the hereditarie , will still make they the large party in the House of Lords , as my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) point out . the Labour party be currently the third large party in the House of Lords , after the Cross Benchers . even after the removal of some of the Cross Benchers who sit by virtue of a hereditary peerage , they will still only be slightly behind the Labour party . the idea that this will remove any form of opposition in the upper House be simply incorrect — it do not hold water . the other idea that good scrutiny of legislation in the House of Lords can somehow happen only by virtue of the application of the mind of the hereditary peer be equally incorrect . some of the good challenge to Government in this Parliament have come from member of the House of Lords who have be appoint . it do not necessarily mean they be less likely to be independent because they be not there by virtue of a hereditary peerage . I genuinely do not see that for myself . the time when I have sit and watch the House of Lords , because their sit hour be later , I have see that the challenge that come from the bishop , the Cross Benchers and the member of the conservative and liberal party , regardless of how they reach there , have be thoughtful and well consider , and long may that continue . I do not think that be diminish by virtue of the fact that we say to a small group of those who have a right in the House of Lords , " your route into this place be an irregularity , and we be seek to sort that . " the shadow Paymaster General , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , dispute my figure . there have be 21 appointment to the House of Lords who have have the Conservative Whip . I appreciate that some of those have be resignation honour from previous Prime Ministers — and there be a few to get through because of the way their party operate — but there have be 21 . at any point , the former Prime Ministers could have say , " we would like to consider give those to member of the hereditary group who be not able to continue . " there have be a number of appointee who be not part of a resignation honour list , and again , the conservative party do not take the opportunity to say to Earl Howe , " we be go to make sure that you can continue . " the hon . Gentleman be make a good speech . do he think that , give the policy they have embark on , the Government should have a duty to protect Cross Benchers who have no party representation in this House ? the hereditary peer who be Cross Benchers will otherwise go by the wayside . would he at least support his Government do that ? it be hard to overestimate the valuable contribution that the Cross - Bench peer make to the House of Lords , not least the number of retire member of the judiciary who come in to fulfil certain judicial or pseudo - judicial responsibility . the hon . Gentleman probably have an element of a point that I would almost agree with : there be a conversation to be have about how we ensure that the Cross Benchers continue to have representation that reflect the breadth of the country and the skill that Parliament need . obviously , there be a role for the House of Lords Appointments Commission , which can make recommendation for new Cross - Bench peer . how that work go forward I be sure be something that will be consider . again , there will still be 151 Cross - Bench peer even after the number of hereditary peer have be expel from the House . that be a large number of peer , all of whom bring an expertise to the House that should be look at . if there be new Cross - Bench peer to come in , I be sure that the commission will make that recommendation . the idea that the House of Lords will somehow cease to function by virtue of the immediate abolition of hereditary peer do not hold water or make sense . we should simply say , " we be go to have a clean break . thank you very much for your service — we appreciate it . if you wish to come back to politic or to Parliament , you can be nominate to the House of Lords for a life peerage , or you can seek election to this House . " if the conservative party really want to ensure that some of those hereditary peer be able to come back to this place , they could say , " we ' re go to make sure you be our candidate " for the 25 safe conservative seat — if there be 25 safe seat for any party these day . it could say , " you can make a valuable contribution to politic in a way that give you a seat in one of the two legislature . " there be way of do it that simply do not allow for the withering of the situation that we have . what I be puzzle about be this : how do the abolition of these great people who have come to this place with a duty of service that they have inherit and serve the country benefit the people of Stoke - on - Trent ? how will our constituent benefit by this change to our constitution ? do the hon . Member really think that this country will be so much well for have get rid of our hereditary peer , who have such a great duty of service to our country ? the hon . Gentleman pose a fair question . I would argue that have a ringfenced number of seat reserve almost exclusively for white man send the wrong message to my constituent . I fully accept that there be member of the House of Lords at whom my constituent can look and think , " they have do something spectacular with their life . " [ interruption . ] before the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire jump up , there be member who have come in through the by - election process after make good contribution in their career , and their be there do bring something , but I do not believe that my constituent would be diminish or harm by their expulsion . I can not see any justification for keep 92 people in this legislature by virtue of appointment make many decade ago . it be a small element . it be a small element , as the hon . Gentleman say , but by that same logic , the removal of that small element will not have a big impact . we be grasp at straw . let I address the suggestion that this be an attack on the hereditary principle . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) be probably one Member of the House who understand quite well the role of the Earl Marshal . he will continue to be an officer of the House of Lords , and the role will still be intrinsically link to the family of the Duke of Norfolk , but he will simply not be able to vote in Divisions or participate in debate . I do not believe therefore that this be necessarily an attack on the hereditary principle per se ; it be simply about say that there be no place for the hereditary principle in a modern - day democracy . I will move on the point about give out title as reward . I do not believe that the amendment be necessary to achieve the conservative party ' s aim , not least because the monarch , as the font of all honour , can create whatever title and style he like , with whatever caveat he like , through letter patent . it do not immediately mean that one have to become a Member of the House of Lords by virtue of have a life peerage if the letter patent say something different . I be sure that the shadow Paymaster General be well read up on the Wensleydale decision of 1856 , when a life peerage be create for Sir James Parke but it be specify that he could not be a Member of the House of Lords . the principle of establish title and style for reward and recognition without tie they to seat in the Lords already exist , so the amendment be entirely unnecessary . my final point , which have not be the subject of much discussion — as it be not a party knockabout issue — relate to Lords amendment 4 , on the capacity of colleague in the House of Lords . it be clear that many member of the House of Lords have serve our country and their community well , but some find themselves in old age and decline health . they deserve the dignity of be allow to retire from that place without it become a story of capacity . the amendment , which be accept by the Government and the Opposition in the Lords , be an important way of recognise that we can make small change every day to the House of Lords , as the previous Government do on the ability to retire and take a leave of absence . this government be ensure that resignation can be grant for member subject to power of attorney — that be an important change and I hope that it get cross - party support . to summarise what my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) say , this legislation have be a long time come and be part of the evolution of the House of Lords . the Opposition amendment do nothing to improve the Bill ; they would simply slow the pace of reform and add bit that do nothing more than frustrate the passage of the Bill when it go back to the other place . I urge the House to reject the Opposition amendment and to support the Government in bring dignity to those who need to retire with capacity issue , so that we can progress with build a more modern and successful democracy . with the leave of the House , I will close the debate , and it be a privilege to close this wide - range and well - natured debate . the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , have be treat somewhat unfairly in the course of the debate . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) accuse he of a lack of energy , but he be completely wrong . the contribution from the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster may have be ill - judge , but it be certainly energetic ; we can give he that . his contribution be , in some way , brave — some would even say it have a chutzpah about it — when he accuse I of trash precedent while simultaneously trash precedent himself . the labour manifesto of last year say : " the next Labour government will therefore bring about an immediate modernisation , by introduce legislation to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords " — not over time , as Lords amendment 1 propose , which be about half a century if we look at the age of the young hereditary peer , but immediately . lord amendment 1 , which the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster support , be therefore an absolute breach of the Salisbury - Addison convention , under which this measure should be allow on to the statute book . we be under no obligation to support Government legislation in the Commons . let I just repeat that point to the hon . Gentleman , because it be important . he claim to respect precedent and the right of Parliament , but the position he take in support Lords amendment 1 run a coach and horse through that . this be the Commons — we be not oblige to support you . fine , let I put it this way : the hon . Gentleman be support the position that his peer be take , which be in breach of that convention . I will give the hon . gentleman another chance , because he be try to put a defence up on that particular precedent . he support the closing down of Parliament in 2019 , and now he sit here lecture I on precedent . I think it be good not to take any lecture from the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster on that . there be an opportunity for the Opposition this afternoon . they do not have to join in with the filibuster tactic that have be use , with ten of hour of debate on this very narrow Bill . the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster could today have not join in , but he will lead his troop through the Lobby to continue to try to block these reform . that be what this be all about . it be not , as he pretend , about try to improve the Bill . it be not that those on the Tory Front Bench be secretly in favour of radical reform , and this be not radical enough for they . they be try to wreck this Bill , and that be exactly what he will do as he go through the Lobby with his troop later . the Minister may remember that at the beginning of the debate , I ask he to bear in mind the circumstance of some of the people who have give their life to this place over the last 25 or 30 year and be not in the good financial health . we be not in " Downton Abbey " — the film have its premiere last night . if he make the decision to get rid of hereditary peer immediately , what support will be put in place by the House authority , which I know he would want to work with , and the government to ensure that those people be look after ? may I push he to consider the more practical proposal of wait until the end of the Session , rather than immediately get rid of the hereditary peer ? it be not my decision ; it be the decision of the british people at the last general election in support our manifesto . if the Bill get on to the statute book , hereditary peer will leave at the end of this parliamentary session . I repeat the point we have hear throughout the debate : there be no barrier to they become life peer . indeed , there be no barrier to they stand to become member of this House if they wish to continue their public service . will the Minister give way ? I will give way , then I need to make some progress . I thank the Minister for his generosity . he frequently cite the Labour party manifesto , which do include this provision in relation to the abolition of hereditary peer . however , it also include a provision in relation to a mandatory retirement age . why have he choose to bring forward the abolition of hereditary peer but not wait until he have resolve the position in relation to the retirement age ? surely there be only one reason for that , which be that it benefit the Labour party politically to remove conservative hereditary peer immediately , and it be of less political benefit to the Labour party to have a mandatory 80 - year - old retirement age . the manifesto be clear that the reform would be stage , and that this would be the immediate first step . the Government remain in favour of a House of Lords that be more representative of the nation and region , and this be the first step . as the Leader of the House of Lords announce , a Select Committee will then look at retirement age , and indeed at participation . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) make the point , which I repeat , that this be not a personal issue but an issue of principle . I know the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , welcome the Bill as a first step , and she also speak about the appointment process . indeed , over recent month the Government have ensure that when people be select for a place in the House of Lords there be now an explanation or citation . we always have a citation when people be award honours , but we do not have one for those nominate for a place in the House of Lords . that have now be change . my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) set out powerfully that Lords amendment 1 , which concern the abolition of hereditary by - election , have be put forward time and again by Lord Grocott , and on every single occasion it be block by the Conservatives . the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , a regular spar partner of mine , accuse I of be a bit unfair to the Conservatives in the 20th century . life peerage be of course introduce in the late 1950 , but it be certainly the case that the Conservatives have block every opportunity to abolish the hereditary principle , and that be exactly what they be do again . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) make a powerful speech about the central purpose of the Bill and the Government ' s position on the amendment . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire make his characteristic contribution to the debate , and I would agree with the point he make about filibuster in the other place on this Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) make well the point that even after this change , the Conservatives will still be the large single party in the House of Lords . I then come to the speech by the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) who seem , I think , to be simultaneously argue for maintain the hereditary peer and for radical reform . when he talk about a parliamentarian with the " attention span " of a TikTok video , I think he mean the shadow Justice Secretary for a minute . we have hear the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) make a comparison with North Korea , but the hon . member for Windsor make a comparison with Iran . this Bill be quintessentially british . it be about british democracy . it be about put an argument to the electorate last July , and then put that into practice . my hon . friend the Member for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) make the powerful case that this be about principle , and about there not be a series of place in our legislature that be reserve for people by accident of birth . my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) , who I be sure the whole House will wish well for the Great North Run , make a powerful case for the abolition of the hereditary principle and the position of the Bill . I also say a real " thank you " to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who have make a powerful case for change throughout every stage of the passage of the Bill through the House of Commons . this have be a perfectly reasonable debate — rise — before I conclude my remark I will certainly give way . I be grateful to the Paymaster General for give way , as I feel that he be draw to the end of his comment . one thing he have not discuss in his round - up of the debate be ministerial pay . I appreciate the remark that he make at the start , and that he do not believe this be the right way or place to do that , but do he accept in principle that in future the Government should find a legal mechanism for ensure that all minister of the Crown , regardless of the House in which they sit , be pay ? I will just come to the other point that we be raise . I have make clear that Lords amendment 1 gut the purpose of the Bill , which be why the Government oppose it . on the other amendment , first I be pleased with and thank the hon . gentleman for his support on amendment 4 , on the introduction of the power of attorney . I think that the whole House accept that there be people who wish to retire , and that be a dignity that we should give they . we all appreciate that . on the other two point , I do not regard the creation of a new , separate honour as necessary or worthwhile — I have this exchange early with the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) . we already have an honours system that recognise outstanding contribution to our society . I think that we should maintain that link between the title and do work in our legislature . I understand the point that the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar have make a couple of time about ministerial pay and minister carry out role . the point that I would make to he , however , be that that require an amendment . if he want to make that argument and have a debate , he be perfectly entitle to do that , but the mechanism in the Bill will not have the impact that I think he be seek to have in that respect . to conclude — I be conclude not just this afternoon ' s debate , but ten of hour of debate in the other place — we be move towards a House of Lords that be fair , open and truly representative of the nation it serve , a House where expertise be recognise and not inherit , where policy be shape by merit and not by bloodline . I commend the Government ' s position to the House . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Chris Webb Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 336 , Noes 77 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . after clause 1 - unsalarie Ministers Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Nick Thomas - Symonds . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Chris Webb Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 331 , Noes 73 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . More than three hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the debate be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Frank McNally Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Chris Webb Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Anna McMorrin Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Jesse Norman Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 338 , Noes 74 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . Lords amendment 8 disagree to . lord amendment 4 to 7 and 9 agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1 to 3 and 8 ; that Nick Thomas - Symonds , Martin McCluskey , Josh MacAlister , Douglas McAllister , Tracy Gilbert , Alex Burghart and Sarah Olney be member of the Committee ; that Nick Thomas - Symonds be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . BBC Monitoring Service Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) just over four decade ago , I first become aware of the BBC Monitoring service , or bbcm . the year be 1982 , and a very different Labour party , lead by veteran unilateralist Michael Foot , be commit to abandon the british strategic nuclear deterrent unconditionally . I be involve in a campaign against that , together with the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , and a brilliant colleague of ours , Councillor — as he then be — Tony Kerpel . a fellow researcher hand I the transcript of a Radio Moscow interview with the national organiser of Britain ' s lead disarmament campaign group , who be visit the USSR , as one do . when ask why the official Soviet Peace Committee support the Soviet Government — unlike her organisation , which oppose the UK Government — she revealingly reply : " well , obviously , because the Soviet Government be in favour of peace , and this make a big difference . " that be on Radio Moscow on 7 June 1982 , for the historian among we . the source of such telling material be a publication call Summary of World Broadcasts , which be produce by BBCM and pack with invaluable insight into the propaganda campaign of our adversary and those who consort with they . found in 1939 to give speedy access to foreign medium and propaganda output , the monitoring service be fund for its first 70 year by an annual government grant . this be as it should be : the Government be pay for a service for which they be the main customer and consumer . certainly , there be period of famine and feast . reduction in the grant after the end of the second world war limit the frequency of the Summary of World Broadcasts , which resume daily publication only in 1959 , but the principle of the annual grant hold firm and there be furth Government investment in computerisation and new building at the Caversham Park headquarters of BBCM in the second half of the 1980 . for a time , the grant be split between the Foreign Office , the Defence Ministry , the Cabinet Office and the World Service budget , but a 2005 report reinstate the single Government revenue stream . cut and redundancy nevertheless take place in 2006 - 07 under Tony Blair , with bad to follow under Cameron and Clegg in 2010 . that be the year when the coalition Government decree that the BBC World Service , and the Monitoring service too , would be fund in future from the corporation ' s licence fee income . eventually , direct Government funding for the World Service have to be restore , amount to about one third of its annual income . BBCM , however , remain disproportionately dependent on the licence fee , plus a certain amount of income from its commercial contract . give that the BBC claim to have see a 30 % reduction of its overall income in real term since that fateful year of 2010 , it be hardly surprising that both the World Service and BBCM have suffer financially . would the right hon . Member agree that in a world where autocracy be in the ascendency and false news spread like the speed of light , government funding for service that bring truth to the world have never be more important ? I could not agree more . may I take the opportunity to thank the hon . Gentleman again for the excellent debate on the BBC World Service , which he lead on 26 June , if I remember correctly , and which give I the idea to bring forward the subject of BBC Monitoring separately ? over very many year , BBC Monitoring have build up the close conceivable relationship with its United States counterpart , know as Open Source Enterprise , or OSE . indeed , the two organisation be base on alternate floor of the Caversham Park headquarters , divide between they the coverage of global broadcasting to the enormous benefit of both country in the transatlantic alliance . this be the nerve centre of world - beat open source intelligence , yet the BBC decide to evict OSE and sell the Caversham estate . I thank the right hon . gentleman for make such an excellent speech . Caversham Park sit in my constituency , and it be a wonderful facility . I pay tribute to those who work there over many year , break vital news story and provide information to the Foreign Office , such as the initial news report of the iranian revolution in 1979 and many other similar event that be only able to be record because of the amazing talent of the linguist and journalist base at the facility , which have sadly now be mothball and be due to be sell to a developer . would the right hon . member like to comment on the role of those staff ? I be extremely grateful for that intervention . I be sure that the staff of BBC Monitoring , both present and past , will be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the support that he have rightly express for they . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring this debate to the House . I conduct my phd research at the BBC national archive centre , which be within Caversham Park , and every lunch time I would have lunch with the extraordinary linguist who occupy the building that the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) have just describe . the loss of BBC Monitoring — if that be indeed to come about — would be a considerable national loss . it represent an incredibly important part of not only our security past but our security future — for the reason that have be mention previously , such as the rise of disinformation . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we need to preserve these institution , because so often we do not know what we have get until it be go ? yes , indeed . if ever something encapsulate the concept of soft power , and indeed buttress and underpin some of the agency that have to delve from more secret source for information , this be an example of that . rise — I must say it be gratify in an end - of - day Adjournment debate on a Thursday early evening to have so many people so keen to intervene , include the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I thank the right hon . gentleman for let I intervene and for his wonderful introduction to my intervention . he mention the importance of soft power , which we speak a great deal about in the debate secure by my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . do he agree that it be not only a case of not know what we have get until it be go , but that , if we be to lose the BBC Monitoring service as well as the BBC World Service — not that we be suggest that , of course — it would be very difficult to get it back , have realise the error we have make ? on the BBC World Service , I will mention the conversation that he and I have in that debate about how , when the service be pull out of particular country , it be sometimes replace with the propaganda that we be try to avoid . absolutely . the only good thing to be say about the propaganda of one ' s adversary be that sometimes , unwittingly , it give we an insight into their plan and a forewarning of their evil intent . let we ensure that we preserve the crown jewel and that we do not rely simply on fluctuation in licence fee income for that necessary task . I have say that the Caversham estate be to be sell off , despite the amazing integration that exist there with the american counterpart of the Foreign Broadcast Information Service , which be now know more regularly as the OSE . it be therefore no wonder that the Defence Committee decide to entitle its December 2016 report " Open Source stupidity : the Threat to the BBC Monitoring Service " . that be a pun on open source intelligence — and for those interested , it be HC 748 , and it be still in print . the then Defence Committee Chairman , whom modesty prevent I from identify , point out — this be a long quote , but it be worthwhile — that : " the Coalition Government be warn , in the strong possible term , not to leave the BBC Monitoring service unprotecte by end its ring – fence annual grant and transfer this minor financial burden to the licence – fee payer . by do so , it give the BBC a free hand to inflict successive round of cut , now culminate in the loss of the specialised and dedicated Caversham headquarters . the vast increase in open source information in the recent past make it one of the few tool still leave in the Government ' s arsenal which can provide almost real time information and analysis on global development . to allow the BBC to change and shape it in a different direction be in contravention of UK national interest . it be especially bewildering when you consider the annual cost of BBC Monitoring be around £ 25 million . the decision to evict BBC Monitoring ' s US counterpart — Open Source Enterprise — from its UK base at Caversham Park and break the physical link between the two be short – sighted . the BBC ' s strategy for BBC Monitoring will downgrade our contribution to open source intelligence sharing between the UK and the US at a time when european nation must demonstrate to President – elect Trump " — as he then be , for the first time — " that we be committed to pay our way in the field of defence and security . as one of our witness say , ' this be the height of folly ' . " that be a long quote , but it be true then and it be true today . rise — rise — I will give way first to the hon . member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) . the right hon . Member be deliver an excellent speech . as the Defence Committee do in 2016 , the Foreign Affairs Committee be now conduct an inquiry into disinformation , which cover many of the same area that he discuss . do he agree that the increase spread of disinformation , increasingly in country that be non - english - speak but have a real geopolitical significance for the UK , make the BBC Monitoring service even more important today than it be in 2016 ? I agree entirely , and before I give way for the next intervention , I will read what I have just be about to say . the report ' s main conclusion be that the Government should reinstate their previous model of fund BBC Monitoring through a ringfenced grant in aid , rather than allow the funding to come from the licence fee . as a non - partisan , cross - party body , I doubt if today ' s Defence Committee would take a radically different view . indeed , we have just hear from the Foreign Affairs Committee representative that that view still have a great deal of validity . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way , even if he choose my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) before I . I wish to congratulate the right hon . gentleman on the report , which I have in front of I . I note that only three colleague who be on the Committee in 2016 be still in this House . the fact that he make these point now , as he do almost 10 year ago , speak to the challenge we face , as well as to the threat to our ability to tackle the geopolitical challenge to which he have refer and how we will be find want in that effort if we do not get this right , and get it right soon . it be very gratifying to an old timer like I to see a fresh generation of serious - minded hon . and right hon . member from all party so united on this common theme in the national interest . I will have to race on a bit now so as not to cut into the Minister ' s time too much . so far I have focus in large part on the negative , as the House have hear , but all be not a picture of doom and gloom . despite the substantial redundancy of 2016 - 17 after the reduction in licence fee funding and the closure of Caversham Park , an 11 - year customer service agreement be sign with the Government , cover the period 2017 to 2027 inclusive . a business development team also succeed in widen the commercial customer base and lessening , to some extent , the dependence on the licence fee . those in charge at BBC Monitoring be in no doubt of the importance of their mission . they point out in a most helpful briefing document that they provide to I that in today ' s environment of intensify information warfare , weaponise narrative and global instability , the value of BBC Monitoring ' s work be more crucial than ever . they note : " the global medium landscape have undergo a profound transformation , drive by the rapid expansion of social medium , the democratisation of content creation , and the accelerate capability of generative AI . these shift have dramatically increase the volume and velocity of disinformation … in response , BBC Monitoring have evolve its editorial strategy , move beyond translation and summarisation to deliver expert , evidence - base analysis . the introduction of data specialist have enable the production of interactive map , graphic , and other tool that help user navigate complex information environment . " BBCM have expand its coverage of chinese , russian and iranian medium influence operation , of jihadism , of climate change , of water and energy security , and of migration — all issue that be central to our national interest and foreign policy . its product underpin the work of BBC journalism , particularly when report on country where direct access be restrict or prohibit . there be , in short , no question about the irreplaceable value inherent in the BBC Monitoring service . by secure this debate and share the content of this speech in advance with the Minister , as I have , I aim to give the government an opportunity to endorse its vital work tonight and perhaps shine a little light on some relevant aspect of that . first , on its budget , at the time of the December 2016 Defence Committee report , the annual cost of BBCM be know , as I say early , to be a modest £ 25 million . what be its budget today , and what percentage of its income derive from the licence fee and from each of its other main funding source ? if the Minister can not be too specific this evening , I would be grateful if he might write to I in more detail . secondly , now that the US Open Source Enterprise organisation be — most regrettably — no long co - locate with BBC Monitoring in the United Kingdom , what be the nature of the residual relationship between the two organisation ? do they no long together cover the globe , freely exchange their respective product , as in the day of Caversham Park ? do bbcm even see the OSE product ? do it have to pay for it and , if so , how much income do BBC Monitoring receive for supply its output to the United States ? thirdly , I understand that BBCM have take some stride in introduce artificial intelligence into its modus operandi . how far do it expect that process to go , and will human expertise and judgment remain integral to its monitoring work ? fourthly , while the restoration of an annual Government grant would be by far the most secure funding model , in the absence of that , be there any danger of BBC Monitoring be cut loose from the World Service organisation and farm out insecurely to BBC Sounds , as have previously be moot ? finally , with a new agreement have to be negotiate with the Government before the expiry of the exist one in two year ' time , will the Minister please undertake to set out specific detail of the target quantity of actual monitoring output — not to be conflate with analysis — specify under the exist agreement , and the extent to which those target have , or have not , be achieve ? only in that way shall we know if our vital open source intelligence operation truly have the resource it need . I be extraordinarily grateful to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) for secure this important debate and share his remark with I in advance . I can assure he that thing have change a lot since Michael Foot . this Labour Government be proud to support our nuclear deterrent and invest in our defence . I pay tribute to the right hon . member ' s extensive and long - stand expertise on this issue and many other related issue , and I be grateful for all the contribution . I can confirm that the Government share the right hon . member ' s view that BBC Monitoring be a vital national asset , as many colleague across the House have express . indeed , I declare an interest personally because I have be a substantial user of its service in the past and be an avid listener of the BBC World Service , so I can truly attest to its incredible service and the work of its staff . for over 80 year , it have provide indispensable insight into world event , shape our understanding of the global landscape , and high - quality and independent analysis , support that integrity of information worldwide , which lot of member touch upon . of course , those contribute to the Government ' s wide effort to combat misinformation , disinformation and harmful narrative produce by malign actor , hostile state and other around the world . it also provide a crucial insight into the international medium landscape , and that inform our national security work , our foreign policy and our ability to take action on the world stage . we must be clear about BBC Monitoring ' s present value . as have be refer to , it have unique linguistic skill and deep regional expertise to fulfil the task of analyse medium from across the globe . whether that be state broadcast , social medium , local news site or official statement , it provide that texture , nuance and ground truth that enrich the quality of the evidence underpin policy making for we and many other . it also help we understand the deep message that government and other , but also their own people and audience , be say around the world . the value of that work should not be underestimate and , indeed , it be value by colleague in not only the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , but the Ministry of Defence and the Cabinet Office , as well as many other . of course , BBC Monitoring ' s value be not confine to whitehall ; it be also an internal radar for the BBC itself . it identify emerge narrative , spot develop story , provide BBC News and the World Service with early warning , and help they get ahead of the curve with their reporting and deep conceptual analysis , so this be a symbiotic relationship . of course , it also support commercial partner and other with their insight and analysis . we fully endorse that service . although the BBC be responsible for the staffing , administration and editorial direction of the service , it be provide under a specific agreement — to which the right hon . Gentleman refer — between the BBC and the Government , enable collaborative discussion about the Government ' s priority for BBC Monitoring to consider in its wide prioritisation . that provide we with the assurance that the service continue to evolve in line with the change media environment and the need to understand it , and ensure that it continue to provide value for the licence fee payer and the nation . the Cabinet Office be the lead Department , manage the relationship , while the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office provide ministerial oversight . of course , as the right hon . Gentleman note , the service be fund through the licence fee as part of the BBC ' s public service remit . I be happy to write to he far on some of the detail of the current funding arrangement . as I have mention , it derive some revenue from commercial customer and partnership as well . it have many customer , include non - governmental organisation , intergovernmental and research body , medium organisation , think - tank and business . he ask how much the monitoring service cost the BBC . it have a range of funding stream , as I have set out , and ultimately it be for the BBC to approve the budget . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about the relationship with Open Source Enterprise . I can confirm that the service maintain a strong and highly effective information - share partnership with OSE under an annually review memorandum . the two organisation continue to work together to cover the globe and fill in their respective gap . they share expertise and collaborate on technological innovation . the right hon . Gentleman be right to focus on the future . we want to see BBC Monitoring thrive . a key part of that be ensure that the organisation be not stand still . it be embrace new technology to enhance its capability , include by integrate AI into its workflow , in accordance of course with BBC permit usage and protocol . that will see staff use cutting - edge tool to sift through vast quantity of datum at speed , allow analyst to focus on provide the high - level insight and nuanced judgment that human expertise alone can supply . that will mean a combination of human insight and AI . this be a rapidly change field , and BBC Monitoring be test AI tool to help journalist keep track of what be be say in different outlet — that follow BBC rule and be design to give a broad overview of the landscape that they be report on — but I should reiterate that decision will still be make by people , not by machine . indeed , BBC staff undertake mandatory AI training course . at the same time , BBC Monitoring have choose to focus on provide deep insight and context in its work . it now produce few report but each carry great analytical value . in 2024 , it produce 78 , 832 report ; that be a reduction on the original target but reflect a deliberate and sensible shift away from basic translation and summarising , and towards analysis that deliver real impact . have use that service before , I can say that it really do provide critical insight . report do not always draw a clear line between monitoring and analysis , recognise that both be part of the same effort to understand narrative . I be pleased to see those advancement and I be sure that they will continue in the year ahead . the exist charter be due to expire at the end of 2027 , and that will be an opportunity , as have be discuss elsewhere , to consider a wide range of issue . that will ensure that the BBC have a sustainable funding model for all its important work , include BBC Monitoring . my colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have make it clear that they be keep an open mind about the future of the licence fee and will think creatively about all the option to future - proof our national broadcaster . will the Minister give way ? I will give way briefly before I conclude . I be grateful to the Minister for give way and congratulate he and his husband on their recent marriage . I be just read " the UK ' s new approach to Africa : summary of consultation " . point 47 state : " we also hear that part of the UK ' s soft power appeal can be intangible . " may I invite the Minister to confirm that both the World Service and the monitoring service be , in his view , key part of UK soft power ? I absolutely agree that they be . as I say , I be an admirer of they , and they be admire around the globe — I hear that repeatedly on my travel , as do ministerial colleague . and I thank my hon . friend for his kind remark on my marriage . I want to be clear . of course I can not pre - empt the outcome of the licence fee process — that be for other colleague — or make specific comment about future funding arrangement today , but I can give the House and the right hon . member for New Forest East this assurance : he should be in no doubt about our high regard for BBC Monitoring . its value and readiness for the future be understand at the high level , and we will continue to work with the BBC , DCMS and other across Government to ensure that its work continue and that we be all able to benefit from its unique expertise and analysis . question put and agree to . House adjourn .