I thank the hon . Lady for give I the chance to update the House on this important matter , far to the write ministerial statement that we will publish later today . the UK Health Security Agency announce last week that it have declare a national standard incident in response to an increase in confirm case of measle . in order for our measle , mump and rubella vaccine to work , the World Health Organisation recommend at least 95 % coverage to maintain population coverage . at the moment , our MMR reach be 89 . 3 % for the first dose at 24 month , and 84 . 5 % for the second dose at five year . this be not a new issue . there have be a gradual decline in coverage over 10 year because of a number of factor , range from the Wakefield generation , when Dr Andrew Wakefield publish his discredit paper on the risk of MMR , through to covid , when routine vaccination be miss , and there have be a drop since then . there have also be concern in particular community , such as the jewish and muslim community , about the type of vaccine use . we have not be wait : the NHS have carry out a catch - up effort over the past 12 month , proactively contact parent and carer of unvaccinated child age five and young , and we have see a 10 % increase in vaccination compare to the previous year . however , that be not enough . nhs figure show that almost 3 . 5 million child under the age of 16 be unprotected and at risk of catch this serious and preventable disease . Measles be so infectious that one infected child in a classroom can infect up to nine other unvaccinated child , make it one of the most infectious disease worldwide . while for most it will be a mild illness , one in five child with measle will need to be admit to hospital for treatment , put additional pressure on the NHS . I want to stress that this be not just a childhood disease ; for adult who have not be vaccinate it can be a serious and potentially life - change event . my message to mum and dad with child who be currently unvaccinate be to come forward . we have a range of measure in place . one million letter be go out to the parent of unvaccinated child across London and the midland . we have extra clinic be set up by GPs , pop - up clinic in school and vaccine bus target community with low vaccination rate . we have hold two MP briefing session , on 12 and 19 January : one for the west midland and one for London . today we have send out information to mps so that they can help we get the message out to their constituent to come forward . it be not too late . there be no age limit . anybody who have not have their vaccination can come forward . the first vaccine will provide roughly 92 % protection , and the second will provide 98 % . the message be to come forward and get vaccinate .