thank you , Ms Cummins , for give I the opportunity to speak . it be a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech in this debate on the Bill , which will see the big overhaul to transportation in a generation . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) on make excellent point about place passenger at the heart of decision , rather than unthinkable profit for shareholder . I deliver my maiden speech with a sense of profound honour and humility . represent the vibrant and diverse community of Sheffield Central be a responsibility that I do not take lightly . I would like to start by say a few word about my predecessor , Paul Blomfield . a Labour MP for the last 14 year , Paul turn a majority of 165 to a majority of a whopping 27 , 000 . he achieve this electoral popularity because he make politic accessible and be a great constituency MP . he listen to people and make their concern his priority . he fight for the people of Sheffield Central tirelessly and consistently . he be everything we should look for in the character of elect member : humble , honest and extremely hard work . he have receive many award in recognition of that . on a personal level , Paul have be my mentor . his guidance and support during my campaign have be invaluable , and for that I be deeply grateful . if he be watch , I would like to thank he for all the support that he have give I , and for everything that he have do for the people of Sheffield Central . Sheffield Central be a microcosm of all that be Sheffield and all that be modern Britain . it be characterise by its rich cultural diversity , beautiful green space and a thriving independent economic dynamism . from the beautiful Bole hill view to the new Pound ' s Park in the city centre , the small independent shop in Sharrow Vale and the up - and - come Neepsend and Kelham , we have an unwavering sense of community spirit that genuinely make every area feel like home . that be because it be home to remarkable individual and organisation that work tirelessly to make our city a well place . it be a place where tradition meet innovation ; we have see the recent excavation and regeneration of a 12th century castle , and have new thrive business hub , such as Leah ' s Yard , which be the place of old toolmaker and be now the city ' s new exciting independent home for maker and creative . Sheffield have earn its stripe as the undisputed start - up capital of the UK . we also have a very large student population . Sheffield Central be home to two brilliant , world - class university that enrich the fabric of our community . I be fortunate to have be a student at both of these excellent institution at various point in my life . with vibrant museum and the large theatre complex outside London , we be a city that recognise people ' s creativity , knowledge , identity , tradition and passion . our theatre have be home to the world snooker championship since 1977 and , more recently , the multi - award - win musical , " stand at the Sky ' s Edge " . Sheffield have no desire to copy ; we desire to celebrate and embody our uniqueness . we storm ahead in our ability to bring people together , to think , to create and to celebrate . as the first city of sanctuary , Sheffield be a city rich in diversity , with settle community and heritage from all over the world . in 1963 , a man cross two continent to start a life in the city of Sheffield . he come by invitation of the British Government to work in the then grow steel industry . he be draw by the desire to better himself and his family . later , his son join he in the 1970 and they work for the renowned Forgemasters . in 1982 , they be able to support the journey of a young woman and her two little girl from the Yemen to the United Kingdom . that man be my grandfather , and you be listen to one of those little girl tell her story now . I be honour to be the first person of yemeni heritage and the first british arab woman to be elect as a Member of Parliament . I be immensely proud of that honour , and I feel privileged to represent not just my constituency , but every person who have ever hope for a well future . I have climb personal mountain and face many personal barrier and hurdle that have come my way , and not only have I have to overcome they , but I have fight for and help many other along the way . I grow up in some of the most deprived part of Sheffield and attend some of the most underachieving school . I grow up with people like I : people who have very little hope and huge odd stack against they ; people who do not understand politic and system , just day - to - day survival . and when life become about survival , live within the constraint of our own prism , our voice be our only mean of break through . I leave school with 4 gcse and go on to graduate four time . I refuse to become a statistic . I refuse to be define by my postcode or the school I go to . I work hard to qualify as a teacher and then a lawyer . but I be never satisfied unless I be use my experience and voice to well the life of other . I have console and weep with many parent who have lose their child to gang violence , either bury or in prison . I have work tirelessly , bring together the police and youth provider , develop community - lead service , work to reduce crime and get young people engage in community activity and into job or education . I have support woman flee domestic violence and seek well support for they and ensure their safety . I recognise that there be many priority in politic , but build strong community will always be at the heart of mine . I will champion localism , ensure that local authority and , equally , community organisation and charity get the support they need to deliver the good in early year , youth work and mental health support , create local job and service for those who need they the most . I will press on the urgency of our commitment on climate action , where we work for the good interest of our planet rather than the interest of oil and gas company . I will advocate for more affordable housing to provide young people hope for the future . and hope be key . Hope will shape our individual story , who we be and the journey we take . I personally break through deprivation barrier by embrace the education system and the opportunity provide then by the Labour Government . a strong education system be the cornerstone of a thriving society . it be the key to unlock potential and create opportunity . so support the education system , from early year right through to high education , will always be a key priority not just for I but for the constituency I represent . I will also use my platform to strongly advocate for cohesion in society . I be drive by the belief that fairness and inclusion be core value that must be embody in all that we do . I will do everything in my power to promote multiculturalism in our brilliant country and will reject the tired populism of blame , exclusion and hate . our unity be our strength . indeed , the positive reaction against the recent riot celebrate an identity of diversity and inclusiveness . as I look ahead , I be fill not with foreboding , but with optimism . we have a new Labour Government with a strong mandate from across the country . I will work with my colleague to strengthen and champion our community . I will work alongside anyone who want to eradicate racism and bind our cosmopolitan community together . we be strengthen by our diversity , not weaken by it , and we must hold firm to the fundamental right and freedom we all cherish . it be imperative that everyone feel value and include , and we must strive to ensure that our public service be accessible to all . I will work tirelessly to make and promote law and policy that foster inclusivity and challenge the systemic barrier that prevent all individual from reach their full potential . I stand here as a woman of colour , alongside many other from different background , and as a proud product of multiculturalism who now have the honour and privilege of be the voice of the people of Sheffield Central and beyond . I be here to listen , to learn , to serve and to act in the good interest of all our community . thank you very much , Madam Chair , for allow I to make my maiden speech . what a privilege it be to follow my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and her move story of her family overcome racism and her personal passion for change . I be delighted to contribute to this afternoon ' s debate on our plan to introduce great British Railways and bring train back into public ownership . nowhere will these benefit be feel more keenly than in my constituency of Shrewsbury , where service be thin on the ground , lack carriage and frequent and reliable service . Most resident and visitor to Shrewsbury would very quickly conclude that our town be a beauty spot with so much potential but cut off from the wide economic region by a lack of robust public transport . this be mirror by our inadequate bus service , with over 5 , 000 route cut since 2010 . Shrewsbury be dream of a Sunday service or a bus after 6 pm to support our young people and our night - time economy . public bus franchise will make a huge impact on so many life . we also have high hope for midland Connect ' s plan to electrify the train route between Shrewsbury and Wolverhampton to boost our capacity . Shrewsbury be , of course , the new name for my constituency — or should that be Shrowsbury ? apparently , pronunciation reveal which side of the river you grow up on . as it turn out , the people of Shrewsbury — and Shrowsbury — be very tolerant of both pronunciation . my constituency be know for many year as Shrewsbury and Atcham , until several village lead up to Wenlock Edge be donate to South Shropshire under the boundary review . my predecessor , Daniel Kawczynski , be well known to this House , as he serve our constituency for 19 year and be particularly focus on raise the profile and challenge of our river , through establish and share the River Severn Caucus . I hope to continue this important work with my neighbouring colleague as we tackle the share threat of flooding and compromise water quality . there be another , perhaps even more famous former MP for Shrewsbury . go back a little far into history , Benjamin Disraeli be our Member of Parliament from 1841 , when he earn a reputation as be both witty and able before go on twice to become Prime Minister and to decriminalise the work of trade union . Shrewsbury have many famous son , but none be more well know than Charles Darwin , the father of evolution . he be bear and raise in Shrewsbury , attend Shrewsbury school as a boarder in the building that have since become our town library and have a statue commemorate his contribution to learn . we be delighted that his family home will finally become an international visitor attraction to celebrate his work . unlike Darwin , I have only live in Shropshire for a mere 20 year , so I be grateful to have be graciously adopt by the good people of Shrewsbury to represent the county town for Shropshire . it be renowne as one of the fine medieval market town , with regular farmer market brim with local producer , agricultural livestock market and our award - win indoor market , which go from strength to strength with late - night event and live music , win Britain ' s favourite market no less than three time . the River Severn famously form a loop around the town centre , frame by our old town wall , as a backdrop to our old historic property , stone - flag narrow street , regency crescent and impose black and white timber - frame building . in total , we have over 600 list building , include the castle — now a museum — the art gallery , the old market hall and the famous Shrewsbury abbey . our main shopping street , the Wyle Cop , which climb the steep hill from the English bridge up to the town square , be report to host more independent shop than any other street in the country , thank to the support of the Shrewsbury business improvement district and our chamber of commerce . there be beautiful riverside walk , cycle path , pedestrian bridge and — the jewel in our crown — the Quarry park along the river , with Percy Thrower ' s famous sunken garden in the dingle . this be where the Royal Horticultural Society host its annual flower show . with such well - keep beauty and heritage charm , it be easy to see why Shrewsbury attract so many visitor each year , boost by our array of cultural festival include the folk festival , the food festival and of course the Darwin festival , as well as the county show at the West Mid showground and Loopfest . we also welcome gentle , sustainable tourism — those who come to walk in the Shropshire hill , kayak down the river or take a leisurely cruise on our famous tour boat , the Sabrina . I be sure that member listen be already plan to book their next visit , and I would be happy to oblige with a guide tour for any who make it . we have some 30 or so small village in the rural hinterland : Upton Magna in the east towards the Wrekin ; Montford Bridge ; Nesscliffe with its long - stand military training camp ; Minsterley , Pontesbury and Bayston Hill to the south ; and Shrawardine and Westbury almost on the Welsh border , in what be historically name the Marches . these roll green hill provide our farming base and woodland natural habitat , and serve our agricultural sector , ably support by the nearby world - lead Harper Adams University , where our farmer of the future be train in sustainability and productivity . that be crucial , give their impact on the food and drink supply chain that flow through the county to support our local economy . we have several large employer , include the world - lead Morris Lubricants factory date back to 1869 , Salop Leisure , Beaver Bridges and , of course , Shrewsbury Town football club , where manager David Moyes once play . despite the very long list of famous Shrewsbury man , I be here today as the first female MP for Shrewsbury , and not before time . I be the daughter of a coalminer whose pit be close in 1986 , and who never work again . I be 12 year old when this affect our family and our community , and it be when my interest in politic be first ignite . as an adult , I be fortunate to win a scholarship for my phd in EU policy , and I work in the European Parliament in Brussels for five year , specialise in regional investment funding to tackle inequality . while I be there , I make friend with the chirpy young woman in the next office , another northern lass who be passionate about politic — Jo Leadbeater , who later become Jo Cox . we run the New York marathon together in 2001 with Suzy Sumner , as the Northern Lasses . we be so proud of Jo when she become an MP and how , with her usual style of tiggerish enthusiasm and charm , she would persuade everyone towards her policy aim . that be all the more reason why her death be so very difficult to comprehend : a senseless loss of someone so sincere and positive . Jo never shy away from stand up for what she believe in and what really matter , however difficult or unpopular . she never say she be too tired or too busy . she just get on and fight for what be important , and always with a win smile . Jo inspire I to go back into politic . after realise that life be too short and precious to wait for other people to solve problem , I decide to be more like Jo . that week , I rejoin my local Labour party , and become a town councillor and then a county councillor , and ultimately leader of Shropshire Labour group . I stand as the parliamentary candidate for the seat in 2019 , and I return this year to win and become our MP , thank in no small measure to the support of my husband John and the patience of my child Annabel and Edward . I conclude by say to Jo and her sister Kim that finally the Northern Lasses be reunite in this place . thank you , Madam Chair . it be an honour to make my maiden speech during the passage of such a landmark piece of legislation and one that be very much long overdue . it deliver on our promise at the election of real change , and every one of we here be proud to represent it . it be also an honour to follow my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) and the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who make such moving and powerful speech . they be a real tribute to this historic 2024 intake . they show up the excellence and diversity of our intake . in a maiden speech , it be customary to pay tribute to one ' s predecessor . I sincerely thank George Galloway for his career of public service . I wish to pay tribute to the late Sir Tony Lloyd , a man who command respect across this Chamber and whose decency , internationalism and compassion be an example to each one of we . as Tony once advise his staffer , now my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) : " if it be not about make people ' s live well , don ' t be a politician . rochdale certainly have a long history of make people ' s live well and of strong link to this Palace of Westminster . indeed , it be a rochdale lass , 15 - year - old Emily Kelsall , who , in 1843 , lay the foundation stone of the Elizabeth Tower that house Big Ben . the Kelsalls be close friend of another of my predecessor , the great parliamentarian Richard Cobden and his ally , John Bright , who famously describe England as the mother of Parliaments . Cobden and Bright , one a rochdalian by adoption and one a rochdalian by birth , be two rochdale radical who campaign as vigorously against slavery as they do for cheap food through the abolition of the corn law and for a wide franchise . another rochdalian who be friend with Cobden and Bright be the Lancashire dialect poet Edwin Waugh , after whom my young son , Eddie , who be in the Gallery , be name . Waugh capture the beauty of the " hill and hillock , knoll and dell " , and the moor and brook of my Pennine constituency . from Blackstone Edge to Hollingworth lake , from Healey Dell to the landscape garden of our magnificent town hall , there be greenery and beauty throughout our town and its village of Littleborough , Wardle , Milnrow and Newhey . the Pennine way cut through my seat , yet our Pennine way be more than just the well - love footpath ; it be a way of do thing , too . our Pennine way be one of community , co - operation , self - help and resilience . ever since the Rochdale Pioneers set up shop in 1844 to sell affordable basic like butter , sugar and flour , we have be proud to be the birthplace of a global co - operative moment , and I be proud to be the first Labour and Co - operative MP in our town ' s history . that sense of co - operation and community have be enhance by the current of migration that have flow through our town as steadily as the River Roch itself . scot , like my own Waugh clan , the Irish , Italians , Ukrainians , Poles , Pakistanis , Kashmiris , Bangladeshis , Nigerians — we even welcome the occasional Yorkshireman — have all staff our factory and our NHS and create new family business . all be proud Rochdalians . just as our town have show real resilience in the face of economic downturn and Government cut , our community cohesion have prove resilient , too — despite the provocation of extremist on all side . as well as radicalism and resilience , our town ' s story be a story of renewal . many of our mill have close , but there be still a strong sense of industry , of hard work , of grafter , of entrepreneur , of people who put something back into the town that raise they . there be people like Richard Tang , whose Zen internet start as a small , home - base business , but be now a major network provider and our big private sector employer . there be people like Sir Peter Ogden , who found Computacenter and this year invest million into my beloved Rochdale AFC — up the Dale — in recognition of its role as a hub of our community . from the brass band of Milnrow to the rock and folk music of Feel good festival , our art be thrive too . rochdale sixth - form college be one of the high achieving in the country . our armed force veteran support group be superb . springhill hospice be a beacon of excellence , and the Oasis ward at Rochdale infirmary be a national model in dementia care . my own journey from Rochdale to this place be make possible only by an enable state : a fantastic teacher , John Williams , who spot the potential in I and my twin brother , Mark ; a council house that give I the stability and affordability that many family sadly lack today ; and free school meal that mean we could focus on learn , not earn . as a former chairman of the Lobby , it would be remiss of I not to also mention the role that my parliamentary journalism have play in propel I on to these Benches — and I would like to dispel the vicious rumour that the main reason I stand for Parliament be to guarantee five more year of jerk chicken . the phrase " Westminster village " be often use as an insult , but this place really be a village , in the good sense of the word : a community of more than 3 , 000 people from all walk of life , make sure that this be an open and accessible people ' s House , not the preserve of an elite . for 26 year , I have have the pleasure of work in this building , with its fabulous canteen staff like Betty , Rita , Daphne , Terry and Godfrey , the Doorkeepers like Adrian , the security staff like Saeed , the many Clerks and official , and of course , the police . I will never forget the day when we lose our own " village policeman " , PC Keith Palmer , in the terror attack of 2017 . it have be my pleasure to work with my Lobby colleague and with mps of all party , and I would like to reassure all the Tory leadership contender : don ' t worry , your secret be safe with I . politician and journalist have more in common than either would like to admit . at their good , both be honourable trade — and they be trade ; they be not profession — but the big difference between we be the difference between criticism and action , between commentary and do . in the end , I could no long just write about the appalling state of our public service ; I want to do something about it . I want to do something about the NHS worker like my wife , who come home every night exhaust by a sheer lack of staff . I want to do something about all those work - class kid like I whose destiny be still too often determine by their postcode , not by their potential . I also want to do something about this misinformation age that we live in , and to combat the rise of extremism that disfigure too much of our discourse . it be Stanley Baldwin who denounce the newspaper baron for want power without responsibility ; today , too many social medium company have exactly that . this summer ' s spread of online hate and falsehood be a challenge to which this Government will have to rise , just as they rise to the challenge of crack down on the thug who attack our community and our brave police officer . tackle online publisher — that be what they be : publisher , not platform — may sound radical , but in reality radicalism be often just common sense ahead of its time , a reminder that all our right be hard win . what could be more commonsensical than demand that the vote be give to the working class and to woman , more than 100 year ago ? what could be more commonsensical than this railway Bill , give the public control over the service that spend billion of pound of their own money ? what could be more commonsensical than tackle climate change or give town like rochdale more control over their own future — town that do not want a handout , but deserve a fair share of the national resource ? the Pennines be famously the backbone of England , but the people of Rochdale be the backbone of England too . common - sense radicalism , resilience and renewal — those be the watchword of my home town , of this country and of this Government , and I will do my utmost to live up to they . thank you , Madam Chair , for allow I to catch your eye during this very important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) on a really excellent maiden speech , and I hope that I can match the very high bar that have be set by hon . member in all part of the House so far today . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Greg Knight . I be very fortunate to be follow he ; he be a very well - like and respected Member of this House . his parliamentary career span five decade , and he serve as a Minister in the government of Thatcher , Major and Cameron . he be first the Member for Derby North , from 1983 to 1997 , and excel in the role of deputy Chief Whip and Minister for Industry . he then return to this place in 2001 for the then constituency of East Yorkshire , which have now become Bridlington and the Wolds , and be re - elect on five separate occasion until his retirement this year . Sir Greg serve for a second stint in the Whips Office during the coalition year and work tirelessly behind the scene on many of Parliament ' s less fashionable Committees . I will always aspire to match his dedication and integrity in public life , but there be one area in which I will never be able to compete with he — that is , of course , the election campaign jingle . for any hon . member who be unaware of his unique impact in this area , I wholeheartedly recommend a quick internet search after today ' s debate . more seriously , Sir Greg be rightly reward with a knighthood for his service to this place , and I place on record my thank for his support and friendship in recent month . I wish both he and Lady Janet a very happy and well - deserve retirement . I now have the unbelievable privilege of represent my home constituency of Bridlington and the Wolds , and it be truly the great honour of my life . I be sure you will agree , Madam Chair , that there be no fine county than Yorkshire , and nowhere showcase it well than the East Riding — from the stunning cliff and world - famous seabird colony at Bempton and Flamborough Head to the golden , sandy beach stretch from Bridlington to Hornsea and the roll hill and picture - book village of the Wolds . each of the four town in the constituency have its own unique appeal . Bridlington be the large shellfish land port in the UK and the lobster capital of Europe . it attract million of visitor every year and be home to many thousand of people who have retire to the area , and I will always fiercely defend our local pensioner . Driffield , my home town , be the capital of the Wolds — or capital of the world , as I think it say on the road sign as a child — and home to one of the large one - day agricultural show in the country . Hornsea boast not only a beautiful coastline but the large freshwater lake in Yorkshire , and Market Weighton be once home to William Bradley , who be believe to be the tall person ever to have live in this country at 7 foot 9 inch tall , and to whom the town pay tribute every year on Giant Bradley Day . I do not wish to test your patience , Madam Chair , by singe the praise of all the many village and hamlet across my constituency , but it would be remiss of I not to mention Nafferton , where I grow up , and Wansford , where I now live . both be home to excellent local pub ; if you do find yourself in the area , I would be delighted to buy you a drink . I hope to repay the faith place in I by the electorate with hard work and diligence . I want to improve access to local health service , increase transport link , ensure access to high - speed broadband for all and address the historical funding formula in education that disadvantage child in rural local authority area . I be one of the few member who can claim to represent more pig than people . agriculture , fishing and tourism be the foundation of our local economy . if I can make our beautiful corner of Yorkshire a well place to live and work before I depart this place , I will , I hope , have do some good . I return to the topic of today ' s debate . privatisation of the railway be necessary because British Rail be not work , either for rail user or the british taxpayer . however , the process of privatise rail operator have not be perfect , in part because franchise operate monopoly ; in that respect , they be no different from the nationalise service that they replace . however , where genuine competition exist , rail privatisation have be a success . on the east coast main line , the government - subsidise franchise , London North Eastern Railway , compete with open access operator hull train , Grand Central and Lumo . that have lead to cheap price for user , high satisfaction and great punctuality , and inter - city service have be extend to new town and city across Yorkshire and the north - east . one of those operator , Hull train , now run two direct service a day between Beverley and London , and I would love to see they extend to Bridlington and Driffield , just up the line in my constituency . however , the legislation put those efficient , non - subsidise open access operator under threat . instead of learn the lesson of those success story and expand they across the network , the Government be slide back to a nostalgic vision of the 1970 , even though public service be in fact inefficient and expensive for rail user and the public purse . the legislation ' s failure to provide specific guarantee to open access operator will mean that there be no incentive for they to invest in new rolling stock or expand their service . we need more open access , not less . minister claim that there be a continued role for open access operator where they add value and capacity to the network , but they will soon be at the mercy of an entirely nationalise infrastructure and provider . do Ministers not realise that a reborn British Rail will work for passenger only if its inter - city service face stiff open access competition across the network ? the east coast main line be a mature and successful test case , and it should be expand . otherwise , what incentive will there be for a new British Rail to deliver cheap and well service ? none , I suspect . the legislation be as rush as it be ideological . the only loser will be rail user and the taxpayer . I express my gratitude to you , Ms Cummins , for the chance to address the House for the first time . I congratulate all hon . member who have deliver their maiden speech in recent day . their eloquence serve as testament to the remarkable talent in this House , and I be honour to be count among they . I eagerly anticipate their contribution to future debate in the year ahead . I also pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Jason McCartney , who have demonstrate over the past four and a half year a real passion for improve the life of many people in the constituency . today , we discuss the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . for my constituent , the change can not come soon enough . the Bill will be a cornerstone , kick - start economic growth , unlock opportunity across the country — especially in Colne Valley — and accelerate we towards net zero . we be all shape in many way by our upbringing . my commitment to community be deeply influence by grow up in south Wales . my parent quietly volunteer to drive stroke survivor to the aptly name stroke club , which provide essential respite . for they , it be not charity ; it be just something you do . work in the mine teach I the value of collective support . miner watch out for each other ; their safety depend on it . that sense of community cohesion contribute to proud and resilient community that shape our nation ' s success . we must reignite those bond through community wealth - building initiative , and by retain wealth in local community . that transformation , inspire by the co - operative movement , be pivotal . bear in Wales and shape by the Labour movement , I find purpose through education and global experience during my professional career . now , just a few year later , I stand before the Committee as the newly elect Member for Colne Valley . it be an immense honour , and I be genuinely humble that the people of Colne Valley and Lindley have place their trust in I . the Colne Valley constituency embody the community value instill in I during my Welsh upbringing , value that be evident in its vibrant village and urban centre — Meltham , Lindley , Linthwaite , Slaithwaite , Marsden , Golcar , Honley and Holmfirth — where community ecosystem thrive and people look out for each other through various community group . there be festival and show , such as the Holmfirth art festival , the Honley show , Lindley street festival , Marsden jazz festival and Golcar lily day , and everybody be welcome to contribute , participate , or simply enjoy themselves . there be sport club , such as Honley cricket club , Wooldale wanderer football club and Holmfirth bowl club , that be weave into the fabric of our constituency . of course , there be the local business that serve and employ our community member , include the Picturedrome in Holmfirth , Coopers Yard , Beauty and the Barista , Read , Trojan plastic , and many other . we should not forget the community support group , such as Crossroads in Meltham and the Holmfirth food bank . much of the above only come about due to individual sacrifice and an unwavering belief in our community . develop a strong community spirit be an ongoing effort . it be not something that you simply bottle . it be a living , often delicate entity that require nurture and protection . external support be crucial to put in place the foundational element . for example , we need to empower people through safe , secure , affordable home and decent job . those foundation allow individual to contribute more broadly to their community . in Colne Valley and Lindley , a palpable community spirit thrive — a spirit you can almost touch . that vitality be evident through numerous community group , from EcoHolmes , which focus on build affordable home , to Holmfirth Tech , which provide community space , as well as the Full Life food bank and various faith - base organisation . that be why , 15 year ago , Leah and our two daughter choose to make this area our home . it be why , every single day , we appreciate how lucky we be to live in such an amazing place with such amazing people . of course , I have to mention the excellent beer , which do help . however , as I suggest early , focus beyond our immediate need can be challenging when we be tired , lonely , hungry , distracted , or simply busy . too many of our people be in that position ; they find it impossible to get off the treadmill of look to make end meet . as the Member for Colne Valley , I aspire to be a voice for those who struggle to be hear amid the pressure of the cost of living challenge they face . I aim to be a calm , consistent advocate for all , emphasise the strength that come from unity , and a voice that celebrate the selflessness of those whose altruism form the bedrock of a healthy society . however , I also recognise the importance of be a strong , resilient voice , one that call for well and more effective way of build and retain wealth in our community to benefit everyone . my value stem from the collective , and my unwavering commitment lie with my community . those be the value and principle I will carry with I every day as I go to work in this place for the people of Colne Valley . thank you , Madam Chair . I be delighted to make my maiden speech today as the first MP for the new constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , and I would like to congratulate all mp who have make such fantastic and powerful maiden speech this afternoon . with such a high turnover of mps , the calibre of the speech I have hear since the election should give everyone a sense of optimism about the future and what this Parliament can achieve . I believe I must start my speech with a particular tribute , and so I shall . they be know for be colourful and preen , strut around like they own the place , and expect to be wait on hand and foot by a fantastic team of underpaid and overworked staff . they demand honour , and they disappear without permission whenever the mood take they . in the past century , their name have include Andrew , Malcolm and Angus , and I be even tell that some individual have be find in bush in a horrible state . no , these be not my honourable predecessor . they be not even Members of the other place . instead , they be the name of just some of the peacock that reside in the beautiful surrounding of the Pittencrieff Park in Dunfermline , and that only last week be award the freedom of the city . I be sure that my immediate predecessor for the seat that now make up the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar will not object to be upstage by the peacock , but I would like to place on record my thank to both Douglas Chapman , the Member for Dunfermline and West Fife from 2015 until retire prior to the election , and John Nicolson , the Member for Ochil and South Perthshire . Douglas and John work hard on behalf of their constituent in the good and true tradition of public service , and I wish they well . I would also like to thank my immediate predecessor from the Labour party , Thomas Docherty . Thomas be still know by many in this House , and we should remain grateful to he for first propose the idea of recall mps , although I suspect that gratitude be perhaps feel by I and some of my colleague rather than by some of the Members opposite . my " Aww , Dad " sense of humour be something I be accuse of have long before I have child , and where well than a debate on railway to put some of that reputation to the test . so I will steam ahead with my remark and do my utmost to stay on track , hope to reach my destination on time and not come up against the buffer of your patience , Madam Chair . I have never serve in the armed force , but I be raise in a family that do . much of the sense of public service that I hope to bring to my contribution to this House be root in the value of the member of my family who have do so . my grandma , Margaret Delworth , be a plotter for the RAF during the battle of Britain , with the air raid siren next to she play a part in the deafness she suffer later in life . my grandpa serve in the Royal Signals in campaign in north Africa , Italy , include at Monte Cassino , and later with the UN in Korea . my parent , Jim and Cathy , be both member of the Royal Observer Corps — indeed , that be where they meet — and I be very proud that they be in the Public Gallery today . when I be six , my parent take what I now realise must have be an incredibly brave decision : to move our family to Berlin , where we live on RAF Gatow for three and a half year . many of my early memory be from there , and it have shape the rest of my life : I play football with FC Westend , a german club base nearby ; the death of Rudolf Hess be historic but mean I get a day off school ; and the defection of a soviet general see my sister lock in the cellar of an air traffic control tower for hour — Helen have always be a very supportive old sister , but I would be lie if I say that there have not be time when I wish she have be leave there just a little long . but it be an early November morning in 1989 that truly shape my politic . I be wake at 2 am by my dad , who sit I down in front of a german tv channel and proclaim , " this be history . " I watch as ten of thousand of people scale the Berlin wall , herald the beginning of the end of the cold war and move towards a united Germany . the event of 1989 teach I that oppression be not , can not and never will be either acceptable or effective , and neither should it be tolerate . I want to take this opportunity to add to the sentiment across this House that the UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to fight the aggression of Vladimir Putin . he might hold the honorific of " president " , but a dictator be a dictator , as many before have warn from these Benches . it be that history — that privilege of observe good triumphing — that make I immensely proud to be serve the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . the area have a proud military history and , with the Royal Navy base HMS Caledonia , that continue to this day . the firth of Forth be a regular home to the grand fleet , and throughout the 20th and 21st century the ship and sailor that protect we then and continue today have call that part of west Fife their home . this allow I to mention Rachel Squire , who some might remember be the Member of Parliament for Dunfermline and West Fife before her sad death in 2006 . she lead the successful battle to save the dockyard at Rosyth , which remain a vital and major asset to the local economy and our community . I visit the dockyard just last week to see the progress on the construction of the first two Type 31 frigate and be impress by the talented and dedicated workforce who build and maintain the warship that keep our country safe . as the world continue to look to Britain for leadership and security , we must never forget the community and worker who be the backbone of a deterrent and strength that so many depend on . I be afraid I will now return to the bad pun as we ride the rail again from Rosyth to Dunfermline , Scotland ' s ancient capital . close to Pittencrieff Park and the preen peacock we find Dunfermline abbey , the rest place of Scotland ' s king and queen , include Robert the Bruce , and the birthplace of Charles I . close by be the birthplace of Andrew Carnegie , the great scottish businessman and philanthropist , who value and promote industry , innovation and education with a global view of Scotland and the UK . his legacy of library and education be strongly feel in Dunfermline and around the world , and nowhere more so than in the United States , in institution such as Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh . however , a local historian tell I that after Andrew ' s death his widow employ a certain Mary Anne MacLeod as a domestic servant in her home in New York — answer on a red baseball cap for why I might not want to dwell on that connection too much . as I continue my journey , poor rural transport sadly mean that a replacement bus service be require as I take we to Dollar , a beautiful village at the foot of the Ochil hill . I hold an excellent surgery there this weekend and I be very tempt to return this weekend for the village ' s annual beer festival — I note that beer have be a theme in many of the maiden speech we have hear since the election . dollar be most famous for Dollar academy , and despite cordial disagreement over certain aspect of the Labour party manifesto , I be very grateful for the excellent work it do with the local community and school in the area to share its learning and experience . travel back towards Dunfermline , we will find the railway track once again . these track transport coal from the mine in nearby village such as Oakley , Comrie , Valleyfield , Saline and Steelend , and be more recently use by the former Longannet coal power station near Kincardine . as the Member for a constituency with a proud history of mining , I be delighted to stand on a manifesto that will end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . at this point , I will mention just one more of my predecessor , Gordon Brown , who be elect as the Member for Dunfermline East in 1983 . in prepare my speech today , I read his incredible first contribution to this House . I urge other to do the same , as it be a powerful speech focus on the need to tackle unemployment . with this new Labour Government invest in green job , manufacturing and infrastructure , we will have the opportunity to make the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar and site such as Longannet driver of the Fife , Scottish and UK economy once again , tackle unemployment by establish new industry and expertise that will help the global fight against climate change . I begin this speech by talk about the contribution of family and my optimism for the future , and I will begin wind up in the same vein . first , I want to take a moment to thank my wife , Jen . it be very simple : without her love and support , I would not be stand here today . we have hear about the importance of family in maiden speech from member from all part of the House . all member of this House will be aim to make even the small contribution to create a well community , a well country and a well world for our own family and future generation . I want my two daughter , Hannah and Eilidh , and all child , regardless of where and how they start their life , to be able to grow up in a world where the opportunity exist for their own aspiration and ambition to be meet , nurture , support and fulfil . that be something we have hear powerfully in speech this afternoon . as the Dunfermline - bear author Iain Banks write , " the future remain malleable and retain the possibility of change " . those be wise word that I will try to remember as I work across the House to create that well future . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) . I be especially interested in his recollection of the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989 , which be also one of my early political memory , although I be obviously on the other side of the House as a result . I be interested in his reference to Monte Cassino , which might make sense later on in my speech . I be incredibly grateful to the people of South West Devon , who put their trust in I on 4 July , elect I to serve they here in Parliament . start out in this place just a few short week ago , it be almost a quarter of a century to the day since I first set foot in Parliament . forgive the clich é , but if someone have tell the 18 - year - old I , who be spend a week ' s work experience with the MP for South West Devon , Sir Gary Streeter , that one day I would follow in his actual footstep , I would not have believe they . everybody I have meet since enter this place who know my predecessor tell I that I have big shoe to fill . for some , that might seem daunt . after all , he be a size 10 and I be a mere size 4 . however , know Sir Gary as I do — in fact , have know he since we first meet at a Kylie Minogue concert in 1991 , where we both enjoy her rendition of " the Loco - Motion " — I be honour to follow in his footstep and the legacy he have leave . after 32 year as a Member of Parliament , Sir Gary ' s legacy be one of kindness , integrity and a deep commitment to the people of South West Devon . I know that there be member on both side of the House , past and present , who appreciate his wisdom over the year . it be something that he will tell you come from his deep christian faith . I be grateful that I still have access to that wisdom , give that he be now one of my constituent and that I also share his faith . unsurprisingly , although Sir Gary achieve a huge amount for our constituent , there be issue affect South West Devon today ; long - term battle that he fight and that remain in need of a victory . one such issue relate to our great Western Railway line through Devon . today ' s debate therefore provide the perfect opportunity to commit myself to the fight for a well railway service to the far reach of Devon and the south - west . follow the devastating flood at Dawlish in 2014 , the previous Government do much to safeguard the line through Devon . the sight of a railway track suspend in mid - air with nothing between it and the sea be not easily forget . I will therefore be campaign cross - party alongside colleague to see the new Government commit to complete the remedial work at Dawlish . they must also ensure that forthcoming hs2 work at Old Oak Common in London do not hamper the progress make on our journey time between London and the south - west . the main line through Devon do not just take holidaymaker to our beautiful county ; it be vital for those who live and work there too . the west side of Plymouth be serve effectively by several small station , but to the east , in my constituency , there be very few option for train travel between Plymouth and Totnes , some 30 minute away . indeed , the current level of service make a mockery of the exist " Park and ride by train " that be advertise as people drive down the A38 . I will therefore continue to fight for CrossCountry train — not just great Western Railway service — to call at Ivybridge station . as the population of that town and of nearby Sherford grow , have adequate access to mainline train service close than Plymouth , Totnes — or , in some case , Tiverton Parkway — be essential . to see the full economic benefit of the Plymouth and south Devon freeport , with its key site at Langage and Sherford , we must see the delivery of a metro railway link Plymouth with Tavistock and Ivybridge , include a stop in Plympton . that would also enhance connectivity for the dartmoor village , which be now a welcome part of South West Devon follow the recent parliamentary boundary change . the previous Government ' s plan to reopen the line between Plymouth and Tavistock be critical to deliver that metro service . I therefore call on the new Government to push forward with that proposal and enable we to get the metro scheme off the ground . I can only hope that the new Government be as commit to support those much - need improvement in South West Devon as they be to the new legislation that we be hastily debate today : a Bill that seem to indicate ideological time travel back to the nationalise railway system of the past and a mistaken belief that state - run institution be the answer to all our woe . our railway system need to drive forward into the middle of the 21st century , not creep backwards to the 1970 . in the case of South West Devon , that mean the difference between reach our full potential and miss the mark . I would waste the opportunity to extol the virtue of South West Devon far if I leave thing there . yes , transport be a big issue locally , whether that be about the need for a bus route between Plymstock and Plympton , cycle path in the South Hams that do not require mountaineering experience to navigate , or improve junction on and off the A38 at Lee Mill , but I hope I will be allow just a few moment to introduce hon . member more fully to South West Devon . South West Devon have to be one of the most unique constituency in the country . I challenge hon . member to name another constituency anywhere with our combination of urban and rural moorland and coastal community . it combine the city suburb of Plymouth — the ancient stannary town of Plympton , and Plymstock , with its rich maritime history — with the rural South Hams and Dartmoor national park . we have the thriving town of Ivybridge , the inland and coastal village and farm of the South Hams , the historic country estate of Flete and Maristow , the village on the edge of the Tamar valley , and rugge dartmoor farm and village . South West Devon be home to the new town of Sherford , the soon - to - expand community of Woolwell and Royal Marines 42 Commando at Bickleigh barrack . there be so much history , so much beauty and so many wonderful and unique community — indeed , too many to list here and be finish by the Adjournment , hon . member will be pleased to hear . life have deal I experience that have turn into passion that I be determined to build on here in Parliament . I have spend the last six year work for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission — hence the comment on Monte Cassino . from travel around the south - west , share the story of the man and woman of the Commonwealth , whom the commission commemorate across the world , I have develop a lifelong passion for this wonderful organisation and the importance of keep alive the story of those who fall . I know that all hon . member have recently hear from the commission about those commemorate in their constituency , and I encourage they to get in touch with their regional public engagement co - ordinator if they would like to know more . when I be grow up , my parent , who be in the Gallery today , offer up their home as foster parent . that experience have leave I with a deep interest in the care system and how we enable care - experience young people to have the future they deserve . while there be those in this place with far more experience in the field than I , my interest span over two decade , and I be determined to be a voice for those young people . finally , have start my elect career in local government , I bring with I experience of a range of issue include work to tackle violence against woman and girl . enable woman and girl to feel safe and be safe in their community , and in my community in South West Devon , be a long - term challenge . yet , have chair the Plymouth violence against woman and girl commission and see the cross - party determination to deliver on it in this place , I believe that we will see the societal change that we fight for . in 1919 , Plymouth , which make up a significant proportion of my constituency and be my home city , see its Member of Parliament , Nancy Astor , become the first female to take a seat in the House of Commons . since then , a female MP have represent at least a part of Plymouth for all but 11 year . the long gap in female mps be from 2017 to 2024 . I be delighted to have bring an end to the drought , pick up the baton of Plymouth ' s six former female mps and also become the first woman in South West Devon . Nancy Astor herself say in her maiden speech just over 100 year ago : " hon . member … should not be frightened of what Plymouth send out into the world . after all , I suppose when Drake and Raleigh want to set out on their venturesome career , some cautious person say , ' do not do it ; it have never be try before … ' but , on the whole , the world be all the well for those venturesome and courageous west country people , and I would like to say that I be quite certain that the woman of the whole world will not forget that it be the fight man of Devon who dare to send the first woman to represent woman in the Mother of Parliaments . " — [ Official Report , 24 February 1920 ; Vol . 125 , c . 1624 . ] fortunately , I be venture out from Plymouth in the well - wear footstep of the woman and man who have go before I , buoy by the courage of the people of South West Devon — man and woman who vote to send I to this , the mother of all Parliaments , to fight for they and our special part of Devon . thank you , Madam Chair . it be a real honour and privilege to be able to make my maiden speech today , as the House debate the role of our railway . before I continue , I must give credit to all those who have give their maiden speech today . it be quite a daunting prospect to follow they all . I must comment on a few of the amazing journey that have bring people here . I think of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) ; it be quite inspiring to hear their story . I must also comment on the speech of the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , as we be mutual friend of Sir Gary Streeter . it must have be quite a sight to see he do the loco - motion all those year ago . it be of special importance to I to talk in the debate today on the role of our railway . the east coast main line go right through my constituency . in fact , I think about half of it do , because we be the third large constituency in England , with station in Morpeth , Alnmouth and Berwick . today we be debate the Government ' s plan , over time , to put the railway back into public ownership , or as some might say , into public service . that be really what I want to address today — the idea and ideal of public service . all of we be here to serve the public , but we can only serve here because of the people who have go before we , the people who support we , and of course the people who vote for we . so first , my thank must go to the people of North Northumberland , include those who vote Labour for the first time . indeed , whether they vote for I or not , I will serve they to the good of my ability . my thank also go to my family — first and foremost my wife , daughter and son , who be my bedrock and whose patience with I be frankly astonishing , but also to the generation that have go before . when I think about public service , I think of my grandparent ' world war two generation . we have already hear about Monte Cassino a couple of time . well , my grandfather fight at Monte Cassino , El Alamein and elsewhere , and it would have be beyond his wild dream that his grandson would one day be stand here . speak of those who have go before in public service , I must recognise the great work of my predecessor as member of Parliament for what be now North Northumberland . first , those two political pea in a pod , the right hon . former Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed , Anne - Marie Trevelyan , and my hon . friend the former Member for Wansbeck , now the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) . as a former miner and engineer , my hon . friend will have a great interest in the success of the railway , and he have also serve his constituent with great distinction and tenacity for many year now . Anne - Marie Trevelyan ' s public service include many significant role in government , include Secretary of State for Transport , and I would like to thank she for her graciousness in the handover of the constituency casework . I must also mention Lord Beith . although he retire from this place in 2015 , he be still hold in very high regard in Northumberland for his nearly 42 year of service . if I can earn just a small portion of the respect that he garner , I will consider myself fortunate . so now I pick up the baton , and I confess that one of the first thing I check , with a name as distinctive as my own , be whether I be the only David Smith MP elect on 4 July . imagine my surprise and disappointment , then , when on the follow day I receive a congratulatory email from a Labour Member of Parliament call David Smith . thankfully , that particular David Smith MP be a member of the Australian Parliament . I be , for now at least , the only David Smith in this place . it be a convention for member to try and mention every settlement in their constituency when give their maiden speech . I have mention that mine be the third large in England , so that may be a challenge . it be also traditional for member of this place to make compete claim about how theirs be the most beautiful constituency in the land , so I be pleased to be able to put that debate to bed . surely it be a certainty that the land of Bamburgh and Warkworth castle , of Druridge bay and Holy Island , of Rothbury , Wooler and the Cheviot hill and of the historic county town of Berwick , Alnwick and Morpeth be the most beautiful in England . the number of member who have holiday in my constituency seem to confirm my conclusion . I be sure that those who have travel on the east coast main line through my constituency , along our magnificent coastline , will do so again . North Northumberland be not only beautiful , but have produce and give a home to some of the most notable public servant in british history . who can look past the role that Northumberland play in the establishment of early british Christianity ? the northumbrian saint , especially Cuthbert and Aidan , be renowned for their faith , wisdom , compassion and miracle , even if today , at least accord to my daughter , the most famous North Northumberland resident with magical power be a certain Mr Harry Potter . Emily Wilding Davison , the suffragette from Morpeth , be another North Northumbrian who fight for what be right . Emily famously hide herself in a broom cupboard here in Parliament on the night of the 1911 census so that she could record her address as the House of Commons to confound those who would deny woman the right to vote . I be delighted to follow in her footstep , and those of William Beveridge , the MP for Berwick - upon - Tweed who author the eponymous Beveridge report , which serve as the basis for that great innovation , the welfare state introduce by the Labour Government in 1945 . what would so many of we do without it ? North Northumberland be also home to vibrant and hard - work community that serve in their own way . whether it be those in the fishery of amble and Seahouses , the farmer work the land across the constituency from Alwinton to Norham to keep we feed , or the serviceman and woman at RAF Boulmer who protect the UK ' s airspace , the people of North Northumberland rightly take great pride in the work of their hand , in the county that they call home , and in the contribution that they make to the common good . nowhere be that more true than in the grand town of Berwick - upon - Tweed , with its historic wall and majestic bridge , one of which , the Royal Border bridge , serve the east coast main line . my particular favourite , though , be the Union chain bridge , for all that it represent for the Union between Scotland and England . we truly have cross - border life in North Northumberland . today we have a choice to build either wall or bridge across that border , and I choose to be a bridge builder . the truth be that when it come to transport infrastructure , and even public service , we have a choice . will we use it for private benefit or for the common good ? for I , the common good must be paramount . we be of equal value by virtue of our humanity , but not all of we have the same opportunity , the same start in life or the same challenge to overcome . many community in my constituency feel left behind , and many feel out of sight and out of mind . see the humanity in each other be a proactive choice . at time over the summer , some people in our country choose to ignore the humanity of other , with terrible consequence . one of the most famous piece of literature in our country ' s history , a national treasure , come from my constituency : the Lindisfarne gospel . how good it would be if they could return home to Holy Island one day , perhaps on the east coast main line . as beautiful as their calligraphy be , to I their primary value come in the wisdom they contain and the story they tell . as I set out on the task of be a Member of Parliament , my thought turn to the wisdom of another part of the good book . proverb , chapter 31 , say : " speak up for those who can not speak for themselves , for the right of all who be destitute . speak up and judge fairly ; defend the right of the poor and needy . " those be wise word for all with a heart for public service , especially those of we who call ourselves parliamentarian . as for I , they will be the axiom by which I expect my public service to be judge , however long I remain in this place . as a lifelong trade unionist who have spend the last 20 year championing bring public service back from the private sector , this debate be understandably close to my heart . I congratulate all the other new member who have make their maiden speech today . they have show passion and reason for be here . I very much appreciate the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) for reason that may become apparent . it be a great honour to be the first Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch . my thank to the people of the community that make up the constituency for place their trust in I . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Stuart C . McDonald , who be MP for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East for the last nine year . it be appropriate that I be make my maiden speech as the ballot for private member ' Bills take place in the Lobby , because the progression into law of his private Member ' s Bill , protect the right of parent of premature baby , show that we can all make a difference when we work together in the House . as Stuart C . McDonald say in his maiden speech , the former Member for Glasgow South be also call Stewart McDonald , and there continue to be significant confusion . many member may not be aware — well , my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) will know — that there be a far complicate factor locally , in that East Dunbartonshire council ' s Kirkintilloch East and North and Twechar ward be very ably represent by Councillor Stewart MacDonald . I thank all of they for the commitment that they have show to their community . I wish to thank a further predecessor , Rosemary McKenna . she serve initially as Member for Cumbernauld and Kilsyth , then as Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East , from 1997 to 2010 . when I be a young woman activist in the Scottish Labour party , Rosemary be one of the big influence on I that eventually bring I to this place . she be one of the people who sit I down and say , " maybe just think about stand . " the new constituency of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch run from the boundary of Glasgow in Millerston to the boundary with Falkirk at Castlecary , and be bisect by the M80 motorway . it be serve by Croy station on the main Glasgow to Edinburgh express railway line , with Stepps , Greenfaulds and cumbernauld be on the local line from Glasgow . rail service be vital in a constituency where people travel to work . Cumbernauld be designate a new town in 1955 , but it have a very rich history . it include Cumbernauld village and its weaver , and Condorrat , and the rich farmland between the Campsie hill to the north and the Luggie water to the south . there have be settlement there since before roman time . the northern boundary of Roman Britain , the Antonine wall , run through the constituency . the Bar Hill fort , garrison by people from across ancient Europe and the middle east , establish to protect the wall , be still accessible from Twechar . evidence of the mining history of the constituency remain strong . there be the Kilsyth Victoria cottage hospital , one of the place in the constituency where I first go to work ; the remnant of the miner ' row , which be now farm outhouse ; and the vast swathe of new housing build on former colliery land in Cardowan , Chryston , Kilsyth and Twechar . it would take a far braver woman than I to make comment about football in the week lead up to or follow an Old Firm game . cumbernauld ' s most famous outing on film be in the 1980 ' s Bill Forsyth classic , " Gregory ' s Girl " . for those who be not familiar with the film , it centre around a school football team who experience a significant improvement in form when one of the girl , Dorothy , turn up for the trial and subsequently play up front as a striker . this film be a firm Murray family favourite . our house be burgle when I be quite young , and the young member of the Murray family be probably more upset that the " Gregory ' s Girl " video be in the recorder that have be steal , so it be poetic that one of Scotland ' s big woman ' s team , Rangers Women , play all their home match in Broadwood in Cumbernauld . I be sure that I can pass on the good wish of probably most in this House for when the team face Arsenal ' s woman ' s team in the semi - final of the first qualifying round of the champion league tomorrow . as I have say , one of the big selling point of the constituency be its connectivity to Scotland ' s central - belt city . if there be to be that connectivity , we need a proper , integrated public transport system , base on public need , rather than on the most profitable route . no matter which part of the constituency I be in , what people want to talk to I about most be public transport — whether it be an amend railway timetable that mean that there be no service after 10 be on a Sunday , or a bus service that get cancel because there be no cover to allow the driver to take a break . during the summer holiday , the youth group at Twechar Healthy Living and Enterprise Centre plan a day trip to Millport use the bus service . it involve multiple bus and ferry , but it require phone around to get lift back to the village for the last leg of the journey , as the Twechar bus stop run at 5 pm . like most of we , I have spend more time than be healthy consider the basis of my politic and value . one benefit of make my speech later on be that I have be able to listen to the maiden speech of so many other member . when the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) make his maiden speech , he speak about Galloway dairy farm , which be important to I because I immediately think of my grandmother . she grow up on one of those farm . the old daughter of the dairyman , she be bright ; she pass she 11 - plus and be entitle to a place at the grammar school . but in the 1920 , dairyman ' s daughter do not go to grammar school , certainly not if they be the eld and they have six young sibling . she never forget that , and among her child , grandchild and great - grandchild there be an expectation that we would take all the educational chance open to we , and fight for they when they be not obvious . we be expect to " stick in " at school , go to university and , when we have get our qualification , embrace a life of service . I be proud to come from a family of teacher , doctor , civil servant , health worker , school staff and social care staff . I be also proud of the fact that my parent be here today . we be support in challenge thing that be not fair and stand up for ourselves . it be probably no surprise that I end up a trade unionist in the health service , fight for public service and never shut up . for the whole of my work life , I have work in partnership and try to build alliance between worker , and between community . many of the community of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch be at a point of transition . it be in a spirit of partnership and alliance that I will work to strengthen the bond that bind our people together . I will work in this place , and in Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch , to confront the challenge that we face around those point of transition , and to ensure that what unite we guide we . this afternoon , we have hear from across the House all the point that unite we . let we focus not on difference , but on area of agreement , because we cross path far more often than we cross sword . I wish to start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) on her witty and passionate speech . her commitment to public service and her drive to improve the life of her constituent shine through . I would also like to compliment all those who have give their maiden speech today . the standard have be exceptional . what an honour it be to speak after so many inspiring colleague , and what an honour it be to give my first speech in this Chamber during a debate on the future of our railway . so many of my constituent depend on Mill Hill Broadway and Hendon station , and this Bill , bring the railway back into public ownership , place passenger at the heart of our rail system and ensure value for money for the taxpayer , will make a real difference to they . get the management of our railway and the number underpin they on a sound foot be crucial . I think I can justifiably claim to have a strong personal understanding of just how important it be to get your number exactly right , because , Madam Chair , if you ask I to think of a number , I do not need to ponder long . my lucky number be 15 . why ? because 15 be the size of my majority . I have the honour of hold the small majority in Parliament . it remind I every day who send I here , who I serve in this place , how grateful I be to the people who vote for I and how life turn on the very small of margin . so I pledge now to serve the people of Hendon , no matter how they vote , with every fibre of my being . small margin run as a theme in our family . 2024 be the 80th anniversary of my father be smuggle out of the Munk á cs ghetto in what be today Ukraine . in April 1944 , my infant father be herd , along with the rest of the jewish population of the town and surround countryside , into the crowded , squalid ghetto , with thousand jam into barely more than a handful of city block . but on 5 May 1944 , a christian woman pretend to be his mother spirit he out , just day before over 28 , 000 people — include , unfortunately , many member of my own family — be put on train to Auschwitz , never to return . small margin , Madam Chair ; small margin and the kindness of stranger . as a child refugee , my father land in London and be give great opportunity by this great country . his story inspire I every day and remind I of the importance of compassion , courage and the bond that connect we all . as I talk to people in Hendon , I hear so many similar story — story of refuge and rebirth , of contribution and belong . our jewish community ; our somali community ; our afghan community ; our iranian community ; our Tamil community ; those who have recently arrive from Hong Kong ; our nepalese community , many of whom serve so valiantly in the Gurkha regiment ; our Filipino community , who do so much for the NHS ; our Gujarati community — the list go on . there be so many wonderful community enrich this , the great of city . Hendon , in its diversity , represent what this country can be at its very good . it bring together not just different community , but different place , from Burnt Oak to West Hendon , from Colindale to Edgware , from Mill Hill to Hendon , all stitch together by the backbone of the northern line . there be our vibrant mosque , synagogue , temple and church ; community organisation like the Centre of Excellence in Grahame Park ; exceptional charity like GIFT and Kisharon in Hendon ; the Royal British Legion in Edgware ; group like friend of the Welsh Harp in West Hendon . we be bless with organisation and inspire people who work hard every single day to make our community a well place and help other . we be the site of the first Tesco shop and of London ' s first airport ; home of Saracens rugby club and the RAF Museum ; one of the epicentre of the fight against covid with the Health Security Agency lab ; and home of the beautiful Welsh Harp and of sweeping view from Mill Hill . what a privilege it be to represent such a place . but small margin be never far from the surface . too many household in our community struggle to get by , their ability to cope rest on the fine of margin , just one pay cheque away from catastrophe . More than a third of child in Hendon be grow up poor after housing cost . in place like Colindale and Burnt Oak , the figure be significantly high . that must change . tackle this unfairness and disadvantage be what motivate I to be here . it be why I be determined to use my experience from many year work in business and from my time in Government at the Treasury , the Home Office and the Prime Minister ' s strategy unit , to bring change and deliver for the people of Hendon . I will never forget those who go before I as member for Hendon . I want to pay tribute to Dr Matthew Offord , who represent Hendon for 14 year . I be grateful for his work on behalf of resident and for his advocacy , as chair of the APPG on explosive threat , for a landmine - free world . I thank Andrew Dismore , who be the personification of a dedicated constituency MP . even today , 14 year after he leave office , resident still talk of he . the impact he make be immense . there be someone else I would like to mention , a giant of our politic , someone who touch the life of million , and whom I be privileged to serve as an advisor at the Treasury : Alistair Darling . if I can summon up just a small portion of his decency , his resolution in crisis , his clarity in chaos and his composure when so many be lose their head , not to mention his Sahara - dry wit , I will be do very well indeed . he embody our mantra of country first , party second , and we miss he . I be also lucky to work with Charles Clarke when he be Home Secretary in the aftermath of the terrible 7 / 7 attack in our capital . he show what strength and determination look like on those dark of day . Ms Ghani , you may have detect by now that I have a slight stammer . as a child , I could not even say my own name some day . mind you , there be still people who have that trouble today — it be not their fault ; it be part - ashkenazi , part - sephardi and wholly unpronounceable . but I know that I be not alone in overcome a stammer : Bevan have one and overcome it by recite the poetry of William Morris . in my case it be not poetry but the NHS that come to the rescue . dedicated NHS speech therapist work with I for year , which mean that I can talk to you — that I could stand up in class , stand for Parliament and be here today . they give I my voice so I can now give voice to other , and I be determined to pay that forward by fight for world - class NHS speech therapy for those who need it — those on the Treasury Bench should take note . we be all beyond lucky to be on these Benches , no matter how we get here and whether our majority be 15 or 15 , 000 . I hope that we all remember why we be here : to serve . we be here to serve our constituent , serve our community and serve our country , to remain true to our principle and conscience , and to avoid be dazzle by the theatre of this place or tempt by its theatric . I believe that politics be ultimately about the practical work of change people ' s live for the well , help other , and serve our community and the common good . especially at a time when we have see record number of antisemitic incident and a surge in Islamophobic attack , it be about come together and act with purpose to confront hatred and make sure that all people in our community can feel safe . when I think of our duty of service , I think of the woman who take my father from the ghetto and save his life . I see her face every day in the people I seek to serve . I reflect on the small margin that make big difference and how what we say and how we act impact on the life of other . whether it be unite to tackle hate or build bridge across community and across this House , I pledge to honour her example , reflect that spirit of service in everything I do , and work hard every day to serve the people of our country and the people of Hendon . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , particularly after his eloquent speech , talk without hesitation about his history , his ancestor and the struggle that he have face — thank you . it be a great honour to make this speech during the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . the Bill be important to I and my constituent , who face many year of disruption and confusion because our train and station be operate by different company . it will bring our train back under the control of the public sector , generate investment in our station , and make it easy for constituent like mine to book travel and ticket . hopefully , it mean that our rail service will be make truly accessible for disabled passenger , with support and help always guarantee . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Craig Tracey , who be hard - work and serve our constituency well . he do important work for breast cancer awareness and raise question in Parliament on issue that matter to our constituent . he be supportive of local event . I be sure that constituent and member of this House will join I in thank Craig for his work and wish he and his family all the good for the future . I also pay tribute to my friend Mike o ' Brien , who be the Labour MP for North Warwickshire between 1992 and 2010 . while in Parliament , Mike hold numerous ministerial position . he be on the Home Affairs Committee that help to increase the number of refuge for victim of domestic violence . as Minister of State for Pensions , he work on the Pensions Act 2008 , which improve work people ' pension . as Minister of State for Health Services , he negotiate compensation for victim of thalidomide . I appreciate his help and guidance during my campaign . he be well love by his constituent , and I hope to live up to his legacy . I have always be someone who get stuck in to change thing that need change and speak up against injustice . that start from a young age , grow up in North Warwickshire , where I campaign for girl to be able to wear trouser at my school . I credit that attitude to my parent . my dad ' s family could not afford for he to stay on at school , so he leave to become a trainee mining surveyor , and go on to do qualification throughout his work life . he become one of the young magistrate in the country , work in urban renewal in Birmingham , and , in his spare time , draw plan to help individual and community group to secure planning permission . he also pay for our many summer holiday . my mum work as a registrar for birth , death and marriage , and be the local parish council clerk , but still find the time to make most of my clothe . I thank they both for be here with we today , along with my partner , Dawn , who be a great support throughout my campaign — thank you . my parent be both drive by a desire to do their good for their family . they instill those value of public service and hard work in I , and support I and my brother to follow our passion . I go to my local comprehensive school , which have evolve to become what be now the Queen Elizabeth academy . that school have make great stride to improve attendance and result , but it still struggle with inadequate facility . I work as a tennis umpire at Wimbledon for 10 year , and I have watch in recent year as grassroots tennis have flourish and become more inclusive , particularly at my local club in Coleshill . that be part of the legacy of Sir Andy Murray and the valuable work of the Lawn Tennis Association . I remember try my hand , as an umpire , at wheelchair tennis — the professional make it look so much easy than it be . it be wonderful to see Lucy Shuker bear the flag for Team GB at the Paralympics , and to see british player do so well at the US Open . even in my 50 , I be honour to play tennis for my county of Warwickshire . now , I can reflect on how much sport and drama have contribute to my life and the life of those I have meet through those activity . for I , sport and drama be driver of social mobility , and they help to give confidence and aspiration to so many young people , break down barrier to opportunity . that be why I will work hard to ensure that young people gain access to activity and local facility that have sadly be lose across the country . I go to university in Leeds in the mid - 1980 , in the midst of the Thatcher Government ' s attack on work people and the divisive dialogue that make it a frightening time to come out as gay . in 1988 , this place pass into law section 28 of the Local Government Act 1988 , ban school from tell young people that it be okay to be gay , so that a generation of young people be frightened , bully and hold back . I play my part in the protest against section 28 , and I be proud that the last Labour Government do so much to improve right for our community . research by the campaign Against Censorship , which be report by Stonewall this August , show that , even in this day and age , LGBT book be be remove from school library after complaint . last week , the TUC report the shocking news that over half of LGBT worker have experience bullying , harassment or discrimination at work . it be important to take stock and recognise the great stride that we have make towards equality , as well as the important stride that the new Labour Government will make , include the vital ban on conversion therapy and the commitment to ensure that young trans people receive high - quality healthcare . I want to assure my constituent and LGBT people across the country that I will work hard to protect the important gain we have make and to tackle the over - simplistic and often hateful discourse that we hear about trans people , just as I campaign against section 28 almost 40 year ago . in my 30 , I retrain as a solicitor and go into property law , because it be property that shape our life and our community , from the building of new leisure facility to the provision of affordable home . there be nothing like the feeling of work with someone through the up and down of buy their dream home . sadly , though , through my career I have watch as few and few young people have become able to realise that dream . that be why I be proud to be part of this Government , who know that the security of affordable housing be something that nobody should ever be without . I pay tribute to those people I have work with throughout my career and recently at Evans Derry solicitor , who have ensure that the people of Atherstone and Coleshill have access to high - quality legal service on their doorstep , and who be incredibly supportive of my become their next MP . North Warwickshire and Bedworth be where I grow up , and I be so proud to be represent the place where I have spend most of my life . it be a thriving mixture of town and village — way too many to mention — and be part of Britain ' s impressive history of coalmining and industry . today , it be the logistic golden triangle in the midland , home to FedEx and Aldi , as well as to many small family - run business in the sector . that be why I be delighted that I will be join the all - party parliamentary group for road freight and logistic in order to represent business and worker in my constituency , work with they to tackle freight crime and address the skill shortage in that industry . atherstone be a market town famous for its hat industry and have retain its traditional charm , include the Shrove Tuesday ball game , where grown man and woman kick an oversized ball up and down Long Street for two hour until the final klaxon sound , declare whoever be hold the ball the winner . it be a historic tradition that have be play for over 800 year ; it be a sight to behold , and be certainly not a game for the faint - hearted — a bit like politic sometimes . Coleshill be a market town name after the River Cole , with a long history as a coach town . I have have the pleasure of meet resident at the Coleshill warm room and have play tennis there for many year , and can say that it be a wonderful community that I be proud to represent . I will work closely with business across the constituency , such as HT Brigham and Co , Tow - Trust Towbars , Jaguar Land Rover , BMW , Bristan and LTS Global Solutions , to make sure the local community be benefit from the innovation take place in my constituency . LTS Global recently let I take a trip in one of the first electric heavy good vehicle on the road in the west midland . these company show that green energy solution be possible and bring investment into our community . the world - class golf resort of the Belfry be also in my constituency , where just a few day ago we enjoy the British Masters golf , host by Sir Nick Faldo . I learn about its Eagles programme , an innovative programme train young golfer . bedworth be the large town in our constituency . it , too , use to be a coalmine town , and contribute to the textile and ribbon - weaving industry . my grandad be a coalminer , so I remember the impact that the mine closing have on our community . it be also why I be pleased to say that the Newdigate Colliery social club and the Miners ' Welfare Park remain as proud reminder of the town ' s history . in the centre of Bedworth stand the Nicholas Chamberlaine alm house , which be manage by the trust and remain in use for their original purpose — an indication of the kindness of those in Bedworth over many generation . the local school be name after that benefactor , and I have be lucky enough to meet teacher and sixth - form student there , as well as at the nearby Ash Green school , and to help the student with their important road safety campaign . in July , I visit Bedworth civic hall to watch its first show after reopen as a volunteer - run venue . that be a fantastic example of why we need community art , and of what can happen when local group of volunteer get together to save our community facility . bedworth be home to several thrive company produce high - quality good , such as Toye , Kenning and Spencer , which specialise in masonic wear and ribbon and also supply buttonhole for the Order of the British Empire insignia . in Exhall , the Premier Group produce 12 , 000 olympic torch for the 2012 olympic game . bedworth be very proud of our Armistice day parade — one of the large in the country hold on 11 November every year — and I will be honour to attend and pay my respect to the member of our armed force , past and present . the constituency be bless to have many small , picturesque village which I have explore over the year on many walk in our beautiful countryside and follow by visit to our great local pub , such as the Rose in Baxterley , the Office at Warton , the Horse and Jockey in Bentley , Austrey ' s the Bird in Hand , the Plough at Shustoke , the Beehive in Curdworth and the Blue Boar Inn in Mancetter , to name only a few . I assure my constituent that I will continue to visit they all , and all of our beautiful and unique village . North Warwickshire and Bedworth face two big local transport issue , which I will begin to tackle immediately . the first be the A5 . improvement from the M42 to the a426 would enable our local authority to plan for the future and unlock economic potential for the constituency and across the west and east midland . the second be hs2 . delay and uncertainty have disrupt the life of my constituent , especially those in Water Orton , without see any benefit . there have not be adequate recognition of the effect that this daily disruption have have on the life and health of local resident . bring train back into public ownership be the first step towards fix some of the transport issue we be face , which be why I support the Bill . I want to finish my first speech in Parliament by thank the people of North Warwickshire and Bedworth for send I to this place to do this very special job . the people of my constituency be down to earth , straightforward , direct , honest , hard - work people . those be the value that I be raise with , and those be the value that will continue to guide I in my role . I be so very proud to be represent North Warwickshire and Bedworth and all its town and village — my home — and I have not underestimate the challenge ahead . I promise I will work hard and do my very good for all my constituent , and stay true to my value , for as long as I have the honour of represent they in this place .