Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Emergency Preparedness what step he be take to strengthen emergency preparedness . the Government be take a range of measure to strengthen our emergency preparedness . later this year , we will update a national pandemic response exercise and undertake a full test of our emergency alert system . in April , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster also open the new UK Resilience Academy , which will train up to 4 , 000 people a year . the Government will shortly publish our update resilience strategy . we seem to get once - in - a - generation weather event once every couple of year these day . although some party on the Opposition Benches do not want to take their responsibility in that regard seriously , I know that this Government will . on flooding , the village of King ' s Bromley in my constituency have suffer on several occasion over the past few year , because all of the road lead to the village have be cut off — although there have be no property flooding . what step be the Minister take to measure and mitigate the impact of that type of serious flooding ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for raise the issue in King ' s Bromley . we be work closely with our colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who be responsible for manage significant flooding . this include the flood resilience taskforce , which I co - chair with the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) . early this year , we announce that we would commit a record £ 2 . 65 billion to build and maintain around 1 , 000 flood defence to protect life , home and business , which be a 26 % uplift per annum on what the previous Government be spend . I thank the Minister for her answer . when it come to strengthen emergency preparedness , I have to point out that flood do not just happen in London or Cardiff ; they also happen in Northern Ireland , which have the same problem . have the Minister have the opportunity to talk to her counterpart in the province to ensure that , when it come to emergency preparedness , the Department and the council that have responsibility in this area work together as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , so that we can do the same thing wherever we live ? we like to work with the Northern Ireland Executive on this issue . it be important that we share good practice and deal with the problem across the board . Cyber - security what step he be take to strengthen cyber - security . what step he be take to improve national resilience against cyber - security threat . Cyber - defence be an important part of our national security , with daily attack against Government , business and individual . member across the House will have see the recent attack against british household name such as Marks & Spencer and the Co - op and , indeed , the Government ' s own legal aid Agency . early this week , the Prime Minister announce that responsibility for public sector and Government cyber - security will sit with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . that will strengthen technological resilience by well integrate cyber - security and expertise into the Government Digital Service . in recent week , we have see a series of cyber - attack on retailer , include on my former employer , Marks & Spencer , and on Government service such as the Legal aid Agency . will the Minister update the House on what discussion he have have with the UK ' s National Cyber Security Centre and other to ensure that these incident be deal with as swiftly as possible and that more be do to prevent such attack succeed in the future ? early this week , I meet the chief executive of the National Cyber Security Centre , which work with impact organisation to investigate what have happen and who be responsible and to help they rebuild . it have be work with all the organisation that have be hit by recent cyber - attack . I also make a speech about these issue at the CYBERUK conference in Manchester a few week ago . I thank the Minister for his answer . as have be mention , we have recently see attack against private institution , with group such as Marks & Spencer be target . I would be very interested to learn about the approach that have be take by the statutory organisation and those in the military sphere , but I would like to know what effort have be make to protect private business from cyber - attack and to ensure that my constituent in Mid Dunbartonshire and people across the UK have access to their daily essential . the hon . member be absolutely right . the National Cyber Security Centre offer advice , guidance and tool such as Cyber Essentials to business to help they prepare as good they can for attack . unfortunately , organised crime carry out some of these attack , and the extortion of money be often at their root . it be really important that Government , business and individual prepare as good we can to act against the bad actor who be try to explore cyber - vulnerability and often , as I say , extort money . I call shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . the Government ' s own cyber expert Innovate UK have warn the Government that the propose chinese embassy at the Royal Mint threaten to compromise the telephone and internet exchange that serve the financial City of London . the expert be now tell the Government what everyone else have know all along : the super - embassy pose a super - risk . yet the Deputy Prime Minister ' s office have say that any representation on the planning application have to be make available to the applicant . perhaps the real Deputy Prime Minister can clear this up : be the Government seriously say that if MI5 or GCHQ have concern about security on this site , those concern will have to be pass to the Chinese Communist party , or have the Deputy Prime Minister get it wrong ? when it come to both engagement with China and with an issue like this , we will engage properly while always bear in mind our own national security consideration . the approach we do not adopt be to withdraw from engagement , which the previous Government do for a number of year — flip - flopping from that to the previous era that they call the golden era . we will engage with China when it be in our economic interest , but we will always bear our national security interest in mind . the previous Government do not engage — sorry , they do not disengage . at the heart of this be two simple fact . first , the Government already know that this site be a security risk . it be a security risk to the City of London and , through it , our economy and the economy of all nation that trade in London . secondly , the Government have the power to block it . Ireland and Australia have both already block similar embassy development . why be this Government too weak to act ? the hon . Gentleman be right the first time when he say that the previous Government do not engage enough . as I say , a decision on this application will be take with full consideration of our national security consideration . those consideration be always part of these decision , and our engagement with China and other country . where I agree with he be that when it come to national cyber - security , we must bear in mind state threat as well as non - state threat , and that be very much part of our thinking as we respond to what be go on in the cyber - sphere . hopefully Lancashire will help with that with the new centre at Samlesbury . join up government what progress he have make on join up government . we have be clear from the outset that we want to govern in a join - up way , though as we all know the dna in the departmental system be strong and have last a long time . deliver our plan for change will require Departments to work together , whether that be to build more house , give child the good start in life — today we announce access to free school meal for child of people on universal credit — or to protect the country against crime and security threat . it be very important that these be not goal of Departments but of the Government , and that be why we work together to achieve they . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer . Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket be privileged to host thousand of servicemen and servicewoman from RAF Honington , RAF Lakenheath and RAF Mildenhall . they play a crucial part in the life of our town and village . can the Minister assure I that the Ministry of Defence be work with other Departments to ensure that place such as Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket will benefit from the announcement in the strategic defence review in the form of job , housing , investment and apprenticeship ? my hon . friend raise an important point . when the Prime Minister announce the strategic defence review a few day ago , he be clear that the uplift that have be approve by the Government in defence spending be a matter not just of the Ministry of Defence budget , but of industrial policy and skill policy . for example , we have announce an extra £ 1 . 5 billion for munition over the next five year , create six new munition factory and over 1 , 000 job . it be really important that these investment be of benefit to different part of the country as we make the necessary investment to improve our defence and national security in response to a change world . I welcome the Minister ' s word on want a more join - up Government , but I have concern that the Department for Transport and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be not work well enough together both generally and specifically on cross - solent transport to the Isle of Wight . will he encourage well joint working between those Departments , both generally and specifically for that most important issue for my constituent where clearly local Government and Transport need to work together to create regulation to improve passenger experience ? the hon . Member make a strong point . I spend every day encourage department to work together , but he will have hear I say that departmental DNA be strong . he be right that if we want to achieve thing , we must overcome departmental DNA sometimes and ensure that department work together to deliver good project . that be exactly what we be try to do . a key function of join - up Government be join - up procurement , and I have have the pleasure of work with the Crown Commercial Service as a supplier for over 15 year . there be an ongoing issue that the CCS run its major procurement during holiday exercise , and this summer be no different . the construction professional service framework , which be worth billion of pound , have be delay and will run over the summer , mean business and family have to cancel summer holiday and change their plan . what more be the Department do to address the culture in the CCS of " buyer know good " and not respect supply chain ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the importance of the CCS . we have task the CCS with work with supplier and review how it run framework to maximise the spend with small and medium - sized business . that should include the timing of the framework so that everyone can take part as well as possible . a couple of week ago , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster make a statement at CYBERUK about the Golden Valley development in my constituency , which be welcome in the constituency . since then , a decision have be make on join up Government with the function of public sector and on Government cyber - security move from his Department to the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . be he have discussion as part of that process to ensure that his dsit colleague be well aware of the huge opportunity and the risk to that project at west Cheltenham ? I refer to the machinery of Government change that we announce a few day ago . we be build up a real sense of expertise in DSIT , and we think it make sense to make that change to bring together the operational and security part of cyber policy . I be sure that my colleague in DSIT be well aware of the hon . member ' s view and of the importance of the issue that he raise . EU Relations what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . the historic deal that we sign with the EU on 19 May be in our national interest and good for bill , border and job . it slash red tape and bureaucracy , boost british exporter and make life easy for holidaymaker . indeed , I be delighted to confirm that Faro airport in Portugal will start the roll - out of e - gate access to UK arrival this week . after year of closed door under the conservative party , I warmly welcome this Labour Government ' s landmark deal with the European Union and the opportunity that it will open up for our young people again . I welcome in particular the commitment to work towards a youth experience scheme and to explore a return to the Erasmus programme . will the Minister set out what progress the Government have make on the talk thus far , and will he reassure the young people in my constituency that we will move at pace to deliver ? we have agree that we will work towards a balanced , capped and time - limit youth experience scheme . we will also work towards Erasmus + association on much well financial term for the UK . the exact parameter will be subject to negotiation , but we want to move forward as quickly as possible . I be so pleased that there be cross - party agreement in welcome a new youth experience scheme . my young constituent in Bath be unequivocal that they want the UK to join Erasmus + again , because that give they the good opportunity for study , training and internship abroad . will the Minister reassure my young constituent in Bath that join Erasmus + will be one of the high priority for the Government as they enter into further negotiation with the EU ? certainly , there will be great opportunity for young people , both in the youth experience scheme and in associate with Erasmus + . I too welcome the cross - party consensus — even the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , back the youth experience scheme in the debate a couple of week ago . today be start to feel like a bit of a love - in . last week , I meet a group of constituent who present I with a petition that demand well access for young people to learn and work in the EU . I have hear the Minister ' s response to the last question , but will he reassure those young people in my constituency that there will be opportunity for they to learn and work in the EU in the very near future ? we will see how long the love - in will last . none the less , the deal provide great opportunity for young people . as I indicate a moment or two ago , we will work towards establish a balanced youth experience scheme that be time - limit , capped and subject to visa control , like the 13 we already have with different country around the world . local business across Ashford , Hawkinge and the village have warmly welcome the new agreement that this Government have sign with the European Union , tell I that it will make it easy for they to sell their product to our large trading partner . do the Minister agree that to build on that agreement , everything possible should be do to find long - term solution to current post - Brexit uncertainty , such as the entry / exit system and the regular deployment of Operation Brock on the M20 , to help UK - base business far develop trading link with Europe ? my hon . friend ' s local business be in agreement with many other that welcome the package with the EU . it cut red tape and open up access to the EU market . on Operation Brock , the deployment be a decision for the Kent and Medway resilience forum , but the Department for Transport and Kent partner be work to keep it and other traffic management measure under review to ensure that they be design and implement in the most effective way , through action such as traffic forecasting , use well datum and explore the use of AI for that purpose . I call the shadow Minister . I do not know how much long the love - in will last . [ hon . member : " aw . " ] I will start off nicely . the Minister have be commendably clear that the youth mobility scheme must be cap , and have make comparison with agreement reach by the previous Government with country such as Australia , Canada and Uruguay . he will know that last year 9 , 750 youth mobility visa be issue to australian national , 3 , 060 to Canadians and just 140 to Uruguayans . will he be equally clear in set out what he think would be a reasonable level for that cap , or be it just a matter of whatever Brussels tell he he have to accept ? it certainly will not be ; it will be subject to negotiation . I genuinely welcome the opposition ' s support for a youth mobility scheme . I think it come as a bit of a surprise to some of their Back Benchers in that debate , but none the less I welcome it . what I have say — and this be what the wording of the common understanding set out — be that it have to be balance , capped and time - limited . that be the negotiation we will take forward . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be go to resist all attempt to involve I in a love - in . however , the Liberal Democrats very much welcome the progress that have be make in the UK - EU reset . we be particularly pleased to see the Prime Minister listen to our long - stand call on a defence fund , on a veterinary scheme and on youth mobility , or youth experience — whatever we be call it now . the Minister know that I be go to continue to press he on the matter . we welcome the announcement , but we need more certainty of the scheme ' s scope and timescale . I be think particularly of those young people who want to start make plan for their future , perhaps not for this summer but maybe for next . will the youth experience scheme be open to they ? can they start to plan for experience in the EU ? may I press the Minister for more detail on the timeline for introduce the scheme ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her support . in fairness , she have be supportive of the youth experience scheme throughout . have secure the agreement at the summit , we will obviously move now into a different phase of the negotiation , look at implementation , whether that be in term of the link with the emission trading system , the sanitary and phytosanitary agreement or the youth experience scheme . we obviously want to move forward as quickly as we can with implementation . EU : Trading Relationship what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of the new trading relationship with the EU . there be no question but that the new arrangement we have with the European Union will grow our economy . it will put more money in the pocket of work people , and the proof will be there for all to see as it ease pressure on food price and cut red tape — more prosperity , more safety , more security — but unfortunately , it seem that the Opposition ' s position be to unpick all of that . the Government continue to celebrate last month ' s late EU surrender deal , continue their long - term ambition to undo the result of a democratic vote that their leadership have never agree with and be do its good to reverse at every opportunity . the Government have already prove that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . can the Minister reassure the House that this Government have no further intention to surrender any more hard - win Brexit freedom ? the only thing that have be surrender be the credibility of the conservative party . this Government have use the independent post - Brexit trade policy to secure a deal with India , a deal with the United States , and a deal with the EU that be good for job , good for bill and good for border . the Conservatives will have to explain at the next election why they want to undo all of it . relocate Civil Service Roles what step he be take to relocate civil service role to location outside London . what step he be take to relocate civil service role to location outside London . the state have to reform to secure well value for money and outcome for the public , and to ensure that government well reflect the country it serve . I often say that I want a civil service that speak with all the accent of this great country . we be committed to half of UK - base senior civil servant be base outside London by the end of the decade . last month , we confirm plan to relocate thousand of civil service role to 13 town and city across the country . the aim be to bring the civil service close to local community and to bring good employment prospect to different part of the country . I welcome that reply , and it be really progressive that the Government be now relocate job away from London , but can I urge the Minister to look closely at how people in place like my constituency of Blyth and Ashington — people everywhere , in rural and semi - rural constituency as well as in more urban one — can benefit from this fantastic policy ? we all need to be able to benefit from this policy , not just certain people in city constituency . I very much hear what my hon . Friend say . I can not stand here and say that there will be a civil service location in every single constituency in the country , but we be happy to have dialogue with mps and local authority from all part of the country to get the big benefit possible from these decision to locate civil service job around the country . the truth be , in this day and age , not everyone have to work in central London . we can get well value for money and , as I say , a public service that be close to the public it serve . I particularly welcome the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say that he would like to hear more accent from different part of the country in the civil service . Billingham in Stockton North be home to the UK ' s big biomanufacturing cluster , and we be also somewhat expose to international trade with our steel , chemical and automotive sector . I very much welcome the expansion of the Darlington economic campus in the area of business and trade . do my right hon . friend agree that this will provide good job for my constituent in Stockton and Billingham , and will he ensure that policy implementation be close to the source of economic activity ? we have the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , with we today . he push for the Darlington economic campus , which be a good innovation , and I know the current Chancellor of the Exchequer value it greatly . we want not just to relocate job , though that be important , but to have thematic campus that can build up real area of expertise , whether in digital skill , financial skill , energy skill and so on , to make a real difference to the community in which these office be locate . I thank the CDL for what he say , because the Darlington economic campus have be a huge success . it recently pass the milestone of 1 , 000 job , but crucially , 80 % of those people be recruit locally , provide opportunity for constituent in my rural area and across the north - east , as we have hear . the Darlington economic campus be also pioneer a very strong cross - Government approach to working , which be help to combat the strong departmental DNA that the CDL mention . will he join I in praise the leadership team at DEC for establish themselves as an indispensable part of Government policymake , and will he join I in ensure that Darlington can serve as a model template for other campus across the UK ? I join the right hon . Gentleman in praise the leadership team at DEC . he touch on a very important point , because we do not want just to relocate job ; we want people to have a good career path , too . in some of the civil service office I have visit around the country since last year , people have raise the question , " can I pursue a career here that get I promote ? " it can not just be about relocation ; it have to be about the chance to build a career in these place . my party be pleased to hear the announcement that GB Energy be come to Aberdeen , which we have consistently say be the only sensible place for it , as member would expect an Aberdeen MP to say . give that GB Energy will bring a maximum of 1 , 000 job over the next 10 year , will the right hon . Gentleman please encourage his ministerial colleague not to suggest that those job will replace the 400 job a fortnight that we be set to lose in the offshore energy industry over the next five year ? investment in renewable be an energy policy , but it be also an economic and employment policy . I can assure the hon . member that investment from both the public sector and the private sector will see many good new job create in new source of energy over the come year and decade . I welcome the relocation of civil service job across the country . with a recent study show that Dudley have high level of economic inactivity , what reassurance can my right hon . friend give I that young people in Dudley will have every opportunity to build their career in the civil service , whether through training , apprenticeship or mentorship ? my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear my strong enthusiasm for great employment opportunity for young people in the Black Country . when we make the announcement about the relocation last week , we also announce a new apprenticeship scheme , because we not only have to change location ; we also have to change recruitment pattern if we be really to get a civil service that speak with all the accent of the country . when the Minister be move civil service job outside London , may I remind he that there be much more to the north than just Manchester and Leeds ? why be the Government move the Information Commissioner ' s Office away from Wilmslow to Manchester , and what assessment have be do of the impact of that move on the economy of Wilmslow ? Mr Speaker , as you can see , this issue will prompt a lot of member to stand up for their area , and they be quite right to do so . as we do this , we will try to bring thing together in a way that create real expertise , and it be not just about city ; it be about other urban and semi - urban area , too . the technology that allow we to move job outside London also allow we to do that . Intelligence and Security Committee what recent engagement his Department have have with the Intelligence and Security Committee . the Intelligence and Security Committee do important and valuable work . the Cabinet Office engage constructively with the Committee and will continue to do so over the come month . we have agree to the Committee ' s request uplift on budgeting and resourcing , which should help it do its job properly over the course of the next Parliament . we be also work with the ISC to identify the good operating model . have the Minister have a discussion with the Intelligence and Security Committee as to why our normally sophisticated operation have not succeed in make any significant dent in smash the gang and stop the boat ? perhaps he might ask the Committee whether its view be that such be the pull factor and the desperation of these people that the only way we will stop the boat be to do what my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) be go to do : arrest they , deport they and send they back to where they come from . I be not quite sure that be the previous Government ' s plan — maybe the right hon . Gentleman wish it be . this be a hugely important issue for we . it be a security issue as well as an immigration issue . of course , international policing and security operation to stop these gang and this trade be a vital part of try to combat it . I call the shadow Minister . the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament be unique , make up of Privy Counsellors from both Houses . however , last month the Committee take the highly unusual step of publicly criticise the Government for their failure to allow the Committee the staff and independence to fulfil its role oversee the circa £ 3 billion annual spend , for which " there be no oversight capability . " the Committee be lead by an experienced labour peer , and it just want the basic : to have staff who be not totally beholden to the Cabinet Office , so that they can do their job on behalf of Parliament and the country , and to meet the Prime Minister . the work of our intelligence service have never be more important , give the grey zone that state be act within at the moment , which must be properly oversee . I ask a write question about when the Prime Minister would deign to meet the Committee . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , say that one be be arrange . have that now happen ? I also ask write question about the independence and resource of the Committee and be tell that discussion be ongoing . on a matter of this seriousness , do Parliament not deserve more than fob - off half - answer , and will the Minister provide further detail now ? I do not think the shadow Minister listen to my first answer . for the avoidance of doubt , I say that we have agree to the Committee ' s request uplift on budgeting and resource . of course , the Prime Minister will be happy to meet the Committee at a convenient time that both can agree . Civilian Gallantry Awards what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of increase the five - year time limit for civilian gallantry award . civilian gallantry award rightly recognise the bravery of people who put themselves at risk to save or attempt to save another person ' s life . honours policy be not the gift of Ministers , as it be oversee by the Committee on the Grant of Honours , Decorations and Medals . however , long - stand practice over many decade be that the incident must have take place in the last five year , and the only exception to this be where legal proceeding be ongoing . I thank the Minister for her answer and for meet I . she know that I have be support the family of PC Taylor and DS Hunt in the search for recognition of their bravery , which result in their death some year ago . they can not understand why there be a committee to consider historic military medal but not civilian one . it appear to they that one set of people who put themselves in harm ' s way to protect our country can be recognise , but another set can not . I appreciate what the Minister say , but can we look at institute an equal committee for civilian honour ? these family just want the proper recognition that historical administrative failure prevent they from receive . I know that the hon . Member be frustrate and have work really hard on this . I express my deep sympathy to the family of DS Hunt and PC Taylor . I be sure she will agree that it be good that their family be award the Elizabeth Emblem by his Majesty in December , in recognition of the sacrifice they make . honours policy be not in the gift of Ministers ; as I mention , it be set out by the Committee on the Grant of Honours , Decorations and Medals . I recognise that she have write to the chair of the committee on this issue , and I be sure he will reply . I call Dr Caroline Johnson — not here . infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on establish an infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish an infected blood compensation scheme . payment to infected people start at the end of last year . the Government expect payment to affected people to start by the end of this year . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , which be independent of Government , publish update figure fortnightly . as of 3 June , it have contact 1 , 360 people to begin a claim and make offer to 324 people , total £ 253 million . there be much furth to go , but progress be be make in deliver justice to the victim of this devastating scandal . in Wirral West , my constituent become a victim of this scandal over 50 year ago when she be a child , and it have affect her life ever since . in her own word , victim have go through horrible level of distress , and now they wait for compensation . that wait be not just for financial security ; it be for closure . could the Minister please give I and my constituent assurance that the speed at which the payment will be make will be ramp up ? my hon . friend ' s constituent be entirely right to talk about the deep distress that victim have be through . IBCA be contact an average of 100 people to start their claim every week , and expect to have bring into claim all those who be infect and register with a support scheme this calendar year . I will continue to support ibca to deliver compensation as quickly as possible . the infected blood inquiry hear from black and asian victim who say that they be even more dramatically let down due to discrimination , which have help to create an understandable mistrust of the authority and a lack of faith that justice will be do . please could the Minister ensure that he do all he can to reach out to all community to encourage everyone who be entitle to apply for the compensation scheme to do so ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the need to reach out to all community and ensure that every single victim secure justice . I assure she that that be absolutely what the Government be commit to do . I welcome the progress that be be make by ibca . of course , the Minister be not directly responsible for how quickly that be roll out . I note that IBCA have announce that its plan be to prioritise those infect who be still alive ; indeed , my constituent Daryn Craik be contact last week . I suggest that the Minister set up a metric that ibca could agree to for the time between when people be contact and when they receive their payment . he could then report that interval back to the House , which would hold ibca to account on the delivery for these infected people , who have suffer for too long . I again pay tribute to my predecessor as Paymaster General for the work he do in stand up for the victim of this scandal . he be right to raise the case of his constituent , and about the balance between respect ibca ' s independence and the lever , assistance and support that Ministers , and I specifically , can offer to IBCA . I would be more than happy to have a discussion with he about his specific suggestion . my constituent Phill be one of the 916 people in the special category mechanism who be suddenly and inexplicably exclude from the Government ' s infect blood compensation scheme when it be publish in February this year , even though the Government ' s expert group have say in August last year that they should be compensate . why do the criterion inform the eligibility for the scheme change without explanation , and can the Minister please provide a list of all the condition include in the core award ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this issue . component of the SCM criterion be plan in both the core award and the supplementary route , and those in receipt of SCM payment can continue to receive those payment under the infected blood support scheme route . however , as I say in my evidence to the inquiry only a few week ago , that be a matter that I will consider far . Civil Service Reform what step he be take to reform the civil service . we want to see a civil service that deliver for the public . the reform that we be push through include great adoption of technology ; relocate civil service job around the country , as we have discuss ; and , critically , a focus on outcome in key public service area , not just the process that lead to they . many of my Chelmsford constituent be civil servant who travel into London most day of the week to perform their job . last month , a Centre for Economics and Business Research report reveal that the UK may need 92 , 000 more public worker by 2030 to maintain the same level of output , due to fall in productivity in the sector . however , the Cabinet Office have refuse to comment on report in recent day that the Government plan to cut the number of civil servant by 10 % by the end of the decade , which will have an impact on my Chelmsford constituent . will the Minister confirm today whether a 10 % cut to civil service headcount be plan and if any of that will take the form of compulsory redundancy ? it be fair to ask for productivity improvement from civil servant on behalf of the taxpayer . we have have an increase in hire over the past 10 year . we do not have a target for a headcount reduction — that be try under the last government and do not work — but we do have a target for reduction in admin and overhead spend . we want to work with civil servant on how that will be do . I say to the hon . Lady that when the taxpayer be commit fund to public service , we want to ensure we get maximum productivity in the public sector ; we can not just resign ourselves to lower productivity and the answer always be to hire more people . how be the Cabinet Office work with the Department of Health and Social Care to bring down waiting list , not just in Blackpool but across the UK ? my hon . friend will know that waiting list have fall by around 200 , 000 since the election . we set an aim of 2 million extra appointment in the first year ; we have not have 2 million extra appointment but 3 million , and the first year be not yet over . we be work closely with the Department of Health and Social Care on that . we know it be just the start : it be a good start , but we have a long way to go to get the health service back to the level that we want to see . National Resilience what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . in April , we launch the UK Resilience Academy . we will be undertake a full national pandemic response exercise that will test the UK ' s capability , plan , protocol and procedure in the event of another major pandemic . I have engage with a wide range of stakeholder to identify the gap . as a result , we have develop a new risk vulnerability map to identify area with high number of people who may need more support in a crisis . after a decade of under - investment in our critical mineral industry , the Conservative Government have leave the UK wildly over - reliant on chinese supply chain . in order to strengthen our national economic resilience , do the Minister agree that the UK ' s industrial strategy must support rapid acceleration of domestic production and processing of critical mineral ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the industrial strategy , which will be publish shortly . it will set out our vision to deliver growth and economic security and resilience . alongside that , the Government be work closely with industry to publish a new critical mineral strategy this year , to help secure our supply chain for the long term and drive forward the green industry of the future . economic resilience be a key part of our national resilience . one of the strong way in which the Government can have it be to support the delivery of good and service via british company in the first instance . do the Minister agree ? can he update the House on what step the Government be take to bolster procurement policy so that they put british supply chain first ? this Government be commit to work with and support british industry . that have be at the heart of our plan for delivery , which be why we have work across and engage with industry . our industrial strategy be key to ensure that that happen . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since our last oral question session , the Government have secure a historic agreement with the European Union that remove a huge amount of cost and bureaucracy from our food and drink industry , that back british job and that will help british consumer . I thank the Paymaster General for all his excellent work on secure that agreement . we have also set out detail of how we will reform the state , move thousand of civil service job around the country and launch a new apprenticeship scheme so that young people , wherever they live , have a well chance of good work in the public service . this week , I uncover the Government ' s shocking decision to designate the Oxford to Cambridge railway line as an England and Wales project . it be clearly nothing of the sort , and the decision will cost Wales £ 360 million - worth of funding for our own network . will the Minister commit to devolve full rail infrastructure power to Wales in this Parliament ? I urge the hon . member to have a little patience until the spending review in a few day ' time . we get a taste of it yesterday , with the Chancellor announce funding for major transport project around the country . we be invest in public service not just in England , but right across the United Kingdom . the hon . Member will hear a lot more about that in a few day ' time . despite the majority of hereditary peer leave the other place and the limitation post - election on the Opposition ' s ability to appoint new peer , the House of Lords will remain disproportionately dominate by Opposition peer . why not tweak the Fowler recommendation , set a new limit of 500 and legislate for that in the last year of this Parliament ? when that be block , as it will be , why not leave reform of the House of Lords to be an issue at the next general election ? I thank my hon . friend for his innovative suggestion . he rightly point out that follow the passage of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill , the opposition will remain the large party in the other place . that Bill , which we be keen to see on the statute book as soon as possible , be the first step in Lords reform . the Government set out in our manifesto a number of proposal to bring about a small , more active second Chamber that well reflect the country it serve . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have already tell the House about plan for a reduction in civil service number . since he come into office , how many civil service role in the Cabinet Office and its agency have be eliminate ? we hope to see a reduction of around 2 , 000 in Cabinet Office number over the next few year . we have institute a voluntary exit scheme , which will make the management of headcount easier and will come into force very soon . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster very skilfully talk about the future , rather than the past year . I will let he know that during the past year , the number of role in his Department and its agency have increase by 828 . that can not give the House a great deal of confidence that his future cut will be effective . will he guarantee that that be a one - off and that he will go back and ensure that the Cabinet Office be actually reduce in size ? the hon . Gentleman be part of a Government who regularly produce headcount target for civil servant that be about as reliable as the immigration target that the Conservatives also produce . I have make it clear that we do not seek a particular headcount target ; it depend on what people do . we be try to reduce the overhead spend , but we be prepared to hire more people when it come to frontline public service delivery . that be why we be hire more teacher and get the waiting list down . we be not adopt the hon . Gentleman ' s approach ; therefore , I will not fall into the trap that he be try to set . business in my constituency often complain about the shocking Brexit deal that the conservative party give we , with more cost , more red tape and more paperwork . that be why Labour member welcome the new EU deal negotiate by this Government . can the Minister set out how business in my constituency — in Loughborough , Shepshed and the village — will benefit from our new grow - up relationship with the European Union ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the package will cut red tape and reduce barrier to trade for business ; make it easy for business to export iconic product such as Melton Mowbray pork pie , Red Leicester cheese and Stilton cheese ; and open up wide access to the UK market . that be why it have be back right across the business sector . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . fellow right hon . and hon . member will have notice that some political party have begin accept cryptocurrency donation — far be it from I to suggest that this might be an attempt to dodge the transparency requirement for donation . do the Minister join I in welcome the Electoral Commission ' s clear guidance that donation that do not come from a permissible or identifiable source must be return , and will he be speak with ministerial colleague in other Departments about make sure that the forthcoming election Bill ensure that any political donation involve crypto be fully transparent and in line with our law ? it be absolutely right that as finance evolve , so too must the rule we have to ensure transparency and probity in election . therefore , the rule regard the source of funding and the bona fide character of the donor must apply whatever currency be involve . labour ' s plan to make work pay promise to bring about the big wave of insourcing of public service in a generation . insourced service be often show to provide well value for money . will the Government provide an update on their work to ensure that public body carry out public interest test when outsource contract expire ? the Government be determined to deliver high - quality public service and well value for money for the taxpayer . we have commit to introduce a public interest test to assess whether expiring contract could provide well outcome and well value in - house , and that be include in the national procurement policy statement . a recent cyber - attack on school and early learn it in my constituency knock out online access , but also underline the need for a positive interaction between Scotland ' s two government , rather than the constant constitutional bickering we have see in recent year . with cyber - security about to move out of the Cabinet Office , can the Minister assure we about the way in which a positive cross - governmental and intergovernmental approach to these relationship will be secure ? the hon . Lady raise a good point . at the meeting of the Council of the Nations and Regions that take place a couple of week ago , issue of technology be very high on the agenda . we take these forum for dialogue very seriously , and I think I be right in say that we can have a discussion on this issue without some of the heat that characterise other subject that come up . give the extremely welcome recent news that economic growth for the first quarter of 2025 be 1 . 6 % , indicate that the Government ' s mission to kick - start economic growth in the UK be begin to work , can the Minister set out what plan exist government - wide to make sure that that prosperity make a positive difference to all family in the UK , include in the most deprived neighbourhood such as Swanscombe and Temple Hill in my constituency ? my hon . friend be right to celebrate the recent figure show that the UK be the fast - grow economy in the G7 in the first quarter of this year — a sign that this Government ' s focus on growth be begin to bear fruit . we be determined to drive growth in every corner of the country . the low Thames crossing , which my hon . friend have long campaign for and this Government have approve , will deliver big benefit in Dartford and beyond . in term of encourage public participation in democracy and in politic , I have find that school visit be constructive , even in the far north of Scotland , and that be on a strictly non - party political basis . what thought might the Government have about encourage other mp to engage in that way ? it be informative and constructive . visit school in my constituency be one of my favourite part of be a Member of Parliament , and I encourage all mp to do the same . we will legislate to lower the voting age to 16 for all UK election — when parliamentary time allow , and follow engagement and plan with relevant stakeholder — as a way to drive forward participation in democracy . at yesterday ' s meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , we hear from someone whose father be terminally ill and unlikely to survive to see the compensation to which he be entitle . it be not fair on people who have wait 40 year for justice that they be leave at the starting line for compensation . be there any way we can make a list of people who be in that situation and calculate their entitlement for their estate ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work he do with the all - party parliamentary group . he will know that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have publish a prioritisation list in recent month . I can also update the House that IBCA be contact an average of 100 people every week to start their claim , and it expect in this calendar year to have bring in to claim all those who be infect and register with a support scheme . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will know that the UK have some of the good intelligence agency in the world , and they have huge power and huge budget which they use to keep our country safe every single day of the week . he also know that in any large organisation mistake be make and public confidence in those agency be vital . give that the Intelligence Services Act 1994 be more than 30 year old — there have be some other act — be it not time for the Intelligence and Security Committee to have new power of oversight and even new power of sanction , so that the public can have confidence that our intelligence agency have proper scrutiny and oversight ? let I echo the right hon . member ' s word in pay tribute to the work that our intelligence and security agency do in keep we all safe every day . we discuss the Committee early in these question . the Government have approve an uplift in resource for the Committee , and we be work closely with it on the good operating model for do its job as effectively as possible . Mr Speaker , " the only good Tory be a dead tory . kill your local MP " — so say the controversial Ulster rap band who remain on the bill at Glastonbury . give that be the case , can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster reassure the House that no Cabinet Office Ministers will be attend Glastonbury this year ? I will not be go to Glastonbury , but I be very much look forward to see Bruce Springsteen at Anfield stadium on Saturday night . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? I shall . the business for the week commence 9 June include : Monday 9 June — remain stage of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill ( day one ) . Tuesday 10 June — consideration of a Lords message to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by remain stage of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill ( day two ) . Wednesday 11 June — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will present the spending review 2025 , follow by Second Reading of the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill . Thursday 12 June — General debate on the distribution of SEND funding , follow by general debate on the fifth anniversary of the covid - 19 pandemic . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 13 June — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 16 June will include : Monday 16 June — motion relate to the House of Commons independent complaint and grievance scheme , follow by a general debate on Windrush Day 2025 . the subject for that debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 17 June — remain stage of the Crime and Policing Bill ( day one ) . Wednesday 18 June — remain stage of the Crime and Policing Bill ( day two ) . Thursday 19 June — Motion to approve the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA Women ' s European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2025 , follow by a general debate on incontinence , follow by general debate on water safety education . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 20 June — private member ' Bills . colleague may also wish to be aware that on Tuesday 24 June and Wednesday 25 June the House be expect to debate estimate . today have a great double significance . as the House may know , it be World Environment Day , when we celebrate the natural world and recommit ourselves as a Parliament to seek to protect it ; and it be also the putative date of birth of Adam Smith , one of my great hero , who do as much as anyone have ever do to explain the world in which we live . if I may move from the sublime to the sublimely incompetent , this week have otherwise be one disaster after another for the Government . on Monday , we have to drag the Leader of the House to the Dispatch Box yet again , and she have to apologise — yet again — for the Government ' s flagrant disregard for this House of Commons in brief out the strategic defence review over the weekend . there be no more important issue than the defence of the realm . it be a UK - wide , long - term , all - party matter and have always be treat as such , yet the Government choose to share the document not only with their friend in the medium , but with the industry , at least six hour before it come to this Chamber or to Opposition party . it be a matter of deep embarrassment for the Government and raise serious question about the private sharing of financially sensitive information . the Leader of the House and the Defence Secretary be both honourable people , and I have no doubt that she have make the case every week in Cabinet for do such communication properly . it be just extraordinary that these two member of the Cabinet be be hang out to dry every week by the 12 - year - old in 10 Downing Street . you could have grant an urgent question every single day this week , Mr Speaker , such have be the deluge of important announcement prematurely make outside this House . today , it be free school meal . yesterday , it be the reannouncement of Northern Rail spending . the only mitigate factor be that the Government have be so incompetent in handle their slow - motion u - turn on the winter fuel allowance that no one have notice anything else — though we still await a statement to the House on that issue as well . what about the strategic defence review itself ? we should start by thank the reviewer for their hard work over many month . I know everyone in this House will want to do that , but if we look at the hard substance of the review , matter become more difficult . first of all , many of the announcement largely repeat the decision of previous government — for example , on submarine , on AUKUS and on warhead . secondly , and most crucially , where be the funding ? Government Ministers have tie themselves in knot over the last few day as to whether the 3 % of GDP target be " an ambition " , an aim , or simply to be undertake " when fiscal circumstance allow " or " in the next Parliament " . luckily , General Richard Barrons , one of the SDR reviewer , be more honest , say that the SDR ' s financial profile — the assumption against which the reviewer be work — assume that defence will get 2 . 5 % of gdp in financial year 2027 - 28 and 3 % of gdp by no later than 2034 . the great irony be that , not three week from now , we will have the NATO summit , which will call not for 3 % , but for 3 . 5 % plus 1 . 5 % . we be light year away from that commitment . the awful truth be that real money will not begin to flow into the armed force until the defence industrial strategy and the defence investment plan be announce later this year , hopefully in the proper way to this House . that will be 15 month after the Government take office . it be lucky that we do not have a war in Europe . thirdly , where be the threat to our adversary ? no extra cash mean no extra commitment , no commitment mean no credibility and no credibility mean no increase sense of threat to those we face . what do we know ? we know that there be a war in Europe in which Russia be move man and mat é riel not merely to push on in Ukraine , but to threaten the baltic state . Ukraine have a glorious victory in the past few day , but we can not rely on such victory , and we must support it in its struggle against Russia . what do we know ? we know that Xi Jinping have direct the People ' s Liberation Army to develop the capability to invade Taiwan by 2027 , and we know that NATO ally , who have a collective responsibility to each other , in some case have a long way to go before they be even at 2 % of gdp , let alone 3 . 5 % . instead of give real leadership , and put cash on the table , our own Government be talk about ready the country for war while in reality they continue to dither and delay . Mr Speaker , I understand that today be Press Association parliamentary editor Richard Wheeler ' s last day in the Gallery . he have cover our proceeding for 12 year , and I be sure we can all agree that that be quite a shift , with Brexit , covid , six Prime Ministers and many intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , all have be cover by he . as I have announce , on Monday 6 June we will debate a motion in my name to implement the recommendation of last year ' s independent Kernaghan review of Parliament ' s Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme . the icgs be set up in 2018 in response to many serious incident of bullying , sexual harassment , unacceptable behaviour and poor culture . through its work and its existence , stride have be make in address our reputation and improve work culture . however , we must continue to do well and to respond . that be why I have table proposal from the independent review to strengthen and improve the process of the icgs . I have ask its director for a full briefing , which , upon receipt , I will place in the Library ahead of the debate so that member can consider these issue more fully . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for want a replay of the urgent question on Monday . follow some of the question that be put to I then , I do say that , with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would come back to the House on some of the issue that be raise . without go through the whole thing again , I want to be clear about some of the thing that do and do not happen . the Government be endeavour to act in good faith and to follow the procedure and practice for many previous sdr — and I have look at all of the procedure and practice for previous sdr . we recognise that there be room for improvement — there always be — but I want to let the House know that advance briefing be offer to all Opposition spokespeople , the Chair of the Defence Committee and a select few from the defence community . an embargoed copy of the full SDR be provide to the Select Committee Clerk shortly after 10 am , and hard copy be provide to the Conservative and liberal Democrat spokespeople 90 minute before the statement . as I reiterate on Monday , the full document be lay first in the House in the afternoon . I have speak with you , Mr Speaker , and the Defence Secretary , who I be sure the whole House will agree take his responsibility to this House incredibly seriously . he want to draw up a clear process for this government and future government to follow , so that the expectation of all concerned be clear . I really will not be take advice from the right hon . Gentleman about respect Parliament . he be a Minister and a Member of Parliament under the previous Government , whom the Supreme Court say have act illegally by prorogue Parliament . there could be no great disrespect to this House than that . he also serve under the former Prime Minister who be find to have mislead Parliament . again , no bad crime than that could be commit . the right hon . Gentleman want to talk about defence spending , but the Conservatives have 14 year in government to get to the 2 . 5 % target . do they get to 2 . 5 % in any one of those 14 year ? no , they do not . when be the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % on defence ? oh yes , it be the last time Labour be in government . that be what we be do again now , so he might want to look at his own record on that . I see that today we have have a big move on the economy from the Conservatives — yes , a big move . they want to draw a line under Liz Truss . but where be the apology , because I do not hear one ? they finally seem to recognise that crash the economy be " a big error " , but they do not seem to understand that it be the ordinary work people of this country who be still pay the price for their action . the Conservatives should be apologise for that , yet the right hon . Gentleman want to go around spend more money . he do not seem to have get the memo on that . let we just be clear . it be really important that we be clear about why we take the decision we do at the start of this Parliament . the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government leave no fiscal responsibility — something they now want to try to retain — and they leave huge , gape black hole in the public finance . borrowing cost be at record high and there be a cost of living crisis crush ordinary people . when market lose confidence , which be what they do under his government and what they be potentially do at the start of this Parliament , and the economy crash , it be those on low , fix income , such as pensioner and family live in poverty , who see the cost of live go up . it be they who pay the heavy price when the economy crash . that be why this Labour Government put economic stability first . that be our first priority , because we recognise who pay the heavy price when that go wrong . I welcome the recognition from the shadow Chancellor today , but it do not seem like everybody get the memo . the right hon . Gentleman seem to want to spend even more money from the Dispatch Box , without say where it will come from . the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , seem to want to get rid of some of the tax increase from the Budget , again without say where the money will come from . now that we have stabilise the economy , we be put our value into practice far . we be see huge investment in the north and in the midland on key transport infrastructure , investment in the job of the future , bring down waiting list month after month after month , and 3 million more NHS appointment . the right hon . Gentleman do not want to mention this , but today we be announce the big expansion of free school meal in year , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . that be the difference a Labour Government make : secure the real income of ordinary work people , put our public service back on their foot and lift child out of poverty . as it be World Environment Day , do the Leader of the House agree that while the UK have beautiful national park , local park and green space in urban city such as Southampton be just as treasure and as valuable in bring community together and improve health and wellbeing , make such city the great place that they be ? community in my constituency enjoy a week - long Urban Wild festival during the half - term holiday , as part of Southampton ' s journey in become the UK ' s first national park city outside London . will she join I in congratulate Christelle Blunden in particular , but also the army of volunteer , friend of group , charity and many more who champion our local nature every day and who be behind Southampton ' s national park city campaign ? finally — order . please sit down . this be a very important subject and I congratulate the hon . Lady — she do ask I at the beginning and it be fantastic news — but I have to get a lot of member in today . so , please , I be sure the Leader of the House have grasp the message . my hon . friend make a compelling case for Southampton ' s national park city status , and indeed for the fantastic contribution that green space , nature and wild place make to our city , make place such as Southampton a great place to live . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats warmly welcome report that eligibility for free school meal be be extend to all child in England whose parent receive universal credit . this be a Lib Dem policy on which we have campaign for a long time , and it be a positive first step to help to lift child out of poverty . of course , there be much more to do . among other much need change , we would point to the importance of fully fund the policy for school and auto - enrol eligible child to ensure that they get the support they need . I will also highlight , once again , something that be raise in business question nearly every week : special educational need . in March it be report in the medium that the Government will produce a White Paper on special educational need to address the crisis in school for child with special educational need and disability . we be hear rumour that this White Paper may be delay until the autumn , or possibly until next year . child with special educational need be still without support , parent be still battle with local authority , school be still struggle to cope , and council be still leave stare at the prospect of a £ 5 billion deficit next year from SEND be add to their budget . will the Leader of the House implore the Government to , at the very least , provide a timescale for publish the White Paper ? first , I thank the hon . Lady for what she say about free school meal . I know it be a policy the Liberal Democrats have also campaign on , but it be this Government who have a proud record of advance free school meal and lift child out of poverty , which be exactly what we be do today , and will continue to do over the come week . the hon . Lady raise the matter of special educational need , which — she be absolutely right — be raise very often in these question . I know that it be an issue of great importance to our constituent and to many member across the House , as I be sure she will accept . I will ensure that any development in this regard be bring to the House , and that member have ample opportunity to contribute to they . I be sure she will agree with I that in recent year our special educational need system have not deliver the outcome for those who need it most , and that the process be not good for parent and family either . we need to make change to the system to deliver good outcome in both mainstream and specialist setting . I will ensure that the House be keep fully up to date . the just the Tonic comedy festival be come to South Derbyshire in July , the festival have choose Elvaston castle as its venue — a place I be help the local parish council to save as publicly own . who do not love comedy ? yet despite be nationally love and generate billion across live digital streaming and more , comedy remain an economically under - leverage sector , exclude from art funding , Government report and the Creative Industries Council itself . use comedy in social prescribing could help we save billion on mental healthcare , and I be work with Lou Jackson of Craic House — that be c - r - a - i - C — on a tech platform to help comedian . will the Leader of the House dedicate time for a debate on our comedy industry ? my hon . friend make a compelling case . of course , comedy be no joke when it come to the economy . [ interruption . ] I try my good , Mr Speaker , but I be obviously not as good as those at Craic House in my hon . friend ' s constituency . she make a great point , and I be sure that Ministers will have hear her call today that the comedy sector be a vital part of our cultural and creative industry , and we will do everything to support it . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for make time this week for the debate on dementia , which be well attend , with a time limit impose on Back - Bench speech . however , I think she owe an apology to the proposer of the debate on the Thursday before we rise for recess , when the debate be curtail at the Government ' s response so that they could make a statement , after which you , Mr Speaker , have to adjourn the House for an hour , after individual who want to speak be unable to do so , before the Government finally make a statement . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , next Thursday there will be a statement from the Business and Trade Committee . I be glad that the right hon . Lady have continue the experiment of have Backbench Business debate after Government business , with the Windrush Day debate , which I be sure will be well attend , and indeed the estimate day that have be announce . application be now open , and we will consider they at our meeting on 17 June . we will give priority to the Departments that be not choose for the estimate day debate early this year . in addition , the business in Westminster Hall next week be as follow : on Tuesday there will be the debate on the United States Agency for International Development ' s pause on funding and its impact on UK international development ; on Thursday there will be a debate on legal recognition of humanist marriage , follow by a debate on long - term condition ; on Tuesday 17 June there will be a debate on hydrogen - power aviation ; and on Thursday 19 June there will be a debate on the role of career education in improve social mobility , follow by a debate on down ' s syndrome regression disorder . over the weekend and early this week , we have our first cross - party delegation from India for many year . it include parliamentarian from all religion , and I know that many mp and member of the House of Lords have the opportunity to meet they . two thing come out of that delegation loudly and clearly : first , that the uneasy truce that exist between India and Pakistan could at any time be violate if further terrorist action emanate from Pakistan ; and secondly , that India be reach out for support from the west on security and defence measure , and we must assist it . may we have a statement next week , probably from the Foreign Secretary , on what we in this Parliament will do to support India in its need to quash terrorism ? as ever , I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce the forthcoming business and arrange for the estimate day application to be open up . I be sorry that he miss our last session before the recess . perhaps he be not aware that I congratulate he and say that I hope he have not have much sleep — I know that he have be out celebrate Tottenham win some silverware for the first time in quite some time . that be a very good excuse not to be here . I be ask at that session about the Backbench Business Committee debate the previous week , and I make it clear that what happen be not of our own making . it be a challenging situation : we be have to deal with a press conference that be be host by the President of the United States and , of course , he be not that interested in the going - on in Parliament that day , but we be keen to make sure that a statement be bring to the House at the early opportunity . that be definitely not an experience that any of we want to repeat , if at all possible . I thank the hon . member for mention the delegation of indian parliamentarian . I be hope to meet they myself , but I be unable to do so on this occasion , but I hope to do so in future . he be right that our relationship with India be important , which be why this Government be so pleased that we have agree an unprecedented trade deal with India . there be also , as he say , security and other issue between India and Pakistan , and this House have be keep update on those matter and I shall make sure that continue to be the case . to help member , we will run business question to around 11 . 45 . we can help each other by move quickly , so I call Leigh Ingham to provide a good example . two amazing young woman in my constituency , Liz and Grace , be part of the team from Newport high school for girl who this week compete in the Young Enterprise final . Liz , Grace and the rest of the team set up a company from scratch , design and manufacture a unique product and have make more than £ 2 , 400 in profit , all while do their a - level . as co - chair of the woman and enterprise APPG , I be proud to see this home - grow talent . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate they , and may we have a debate on support the next generation of woman to become involved in enterprise ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Liz and Grace on their enterprise endeavour and make such a good profit while also study for their a - level . my hon . friend the Minister for Employment , who be sit next to I , will have hear that question . get more young woman into enterprise and business be obviously very important . many constituent in Potters Bar have contact I with concern about increase in application for house of multiple occupation . street such as Strafford Gate be quiet residential road with semi - detached bungalow . they be really not suitable for be convert into unit with five or six bedroom . will the Leader of the House find time for we to debate whether planning rule in respect of house of multiple occupation be fit for purpose ? I be sorry to hear about what be happen in Potters Bar . the right hon . member be right that the proliferation of HMOs can have a devastating effect on community . local authority have some regulation and power , but they be often not sufficient . that be why we have the Renters ' right Bill come through to strengthen the power of local authority in the private rented sector , include in relation to HMOs . I look forward to the right hon . Member support the Bill as it progress . I want to pay tribute to Doncaster boxing legend Terri Harper , who be a three - weight world champion and the first british woman to win title in three weight division . she defend and retain her lightweight boxing title last month in Doncaster . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Terri on her incredible success , and will she make time in the Chamber to discuss how we can encourage girl to become the next generation of leader in woman ' s sport , just like Terri ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Terri . we want to see more woman get involve in sport , not only compete at the high level like Terri but take part , because it be really good for their life , wellbeing , health and education . my constituent be due to have her radio teleswitch meter replace on Thursday after three year of wrangle with her supplier , but it do not happen . we know that the RTS switch - off be happen at the end of June , and at the current rate in Scotland it will take 380 day for all the meter to be replace . can we get a statement from the Government on an issue that be fast become a crisis ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . it have be raise with I on a number of occasion by the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) as well . no one should be leave without a signal , and that be what should be happen , but I will ensure that the hon . Lady and other member be keep update , because this be an urgent matter . I be in the House during business question on 9 January when my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , Chair of the Defence Committee , refer to the storming of the Golden Temple in Amritsar in June 1984 , order by the then indian Government . document reveal in 2014 show that the Thatcher Government have help their indian counterpart by provide advice for Operation Blue Star . since 2014 there have be many call to establish the extent of the british Government ' s involvement , and many assurance have be give . will the Leader of the House give a statement to the House announce an independent , judge - lead public inquiry to , in her own word , get to the bottom of what happen ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . as he say , it be raise with I a few month ago , and I make it clear on that occasion what I hope would happen . I understand the concern of Members across the House and of member of the Sikh community , many of whom he represent . when I be ask about this issue previously , I do follow up , and I be sorry to say that I be still wait . when I do hear from the Foreign Office , I will ensure that my hon . friend and other Members be make fully aware and that the House be update . the Landywood voluntary help centre in Great Wyrley , which be completely staff by volunteer , have be support people of all age for 50 year . may we have a debate in Government time to thank such organisation for the work they do , in all our constituency across the country , to support the most vulnerable ? I join the right hon . member in thank the volunteer at that help centre and all the other volunteer in all our constituency . voluntary work be a common theme of business question week after week , and I be sure that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , will have hear that we would all like the opportunity to pay tribute to and thank all volunteer for the tremendous work they do in our constituency . it be almost 30 year since the iconic replica of Sir Francis Drake ' s Golden Hinde arrive at the historic St Mary Overie dock on the Thames in Southwark . will the Leader of the House provide time to debate what Government at every level can do to ensure that we continue celebrate our maritime history and educate future generation through amazing interactive experience like those that the Golden Hinde provide to child from my constituency in Southwark and across the globe ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I be sure we be all familiar with the Golden Hinde from walk along the south bank . restore our heritage asset be really important to this Government , and we announce additional funding to the heritage at risk programme in February . I hope that my hon . Friend and Southwark council can work together to do their bit to restore and bring back to life that great asset . tackle child poverty be incredibly important . on Monday , the Leader of the House tell I : " I will ensure that she and the House be update on the timing for the child poverty taskforce " . — [ Official Report , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 33 . ] I would appreciate an update on the timing . when will we know when the announcement will be make ? the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , will shortly give a statement to the House about progress with free school meal . as part of that statement , I be assure that he will let the House know where we be with the timing of the taskforce and when we can expect the report . many of my constituent have be deeply distress by the story of Beth Martin , a mum of two from my constituency who tragically die in unclear circumstance on holiday in Turkey last month . my thought and sympathy go out to her husband Luke and her two child , and indeed to all who love she . I thank the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) for his sensitive and swift work . will the Leader of the House please make time for he to update I on his work internationally regard this devastating death ? I be really sorry to hear about that distressing case . I be sure the whole House will join I in send our thought to Beth ' s husband Luke and her two young child at this awful time . I be pleased to hear that the Minister have be work with she . I will ensure that that continue and that she be keep constantly update . I thank the Leader of the House for the Government ' s assurance that the Chagos islands treaty will be debate in the House . may I draw her attention to the prayer of early - day motion 1398 , table by my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition and other ? [ that the Agreement , do at London and Port Louis on 22 May 2025 , between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius concern the Chagos Archipelago include Diego Garcia , should not be ratify . ] compliant with the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , a debate be require within 21 sit day of lay a treaty before the House . the treaty be lay on 22 May . will the Government give an assurance that the motion will be debate in Government time before the expiry of those 21 day so that the House get a proper opportunity to decide whether the treaty should be ratify ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue . as he know , the agreement be lay before both Houses on 22 May , and under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act both Houses have 21 sit day — run to 3 July — to scrutinise and lie , as he say , anything they want to on that . we will ensure that the full CRaG process be follow at all time . he will be aware that , in addition , we will introduce legislation to implement the agreement , and there will be ample time for the House to consider the Bill to ratify the treaty . I be delighted to have champion additional funding of more than £ 10 million for the Royal Wolverhampton NHS trust and over £ 1 million for Walsall Manor hospital for essential work and upgrade . let we contrast that to the Tories , who oversee a backlog of maintenance and crumble hospital . will the Leader of the House meet I to continue champion safe , modern , future - fit facility for patient and hard - work staff in Wolverhampton North East ? I be really pleased that the Government have ensure that the funding be there to provide the vital upgrade need for the Royal Wolverhampton NHS trust . my hon . friend be right that we inherit a hospital capital programme that be a work of fiction ; there be not a penny allocate to many of the promise that have be make . we have now set out a clear timetable with allocate funding so that her hospital and many other can get the improvement they desperately need . the Leader of the House will be well aware that the global ocean treaty have still not have its passage through the House . with the first ever ocean conference of the party come up quickly , next year , will she confirm when the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction agreement will be bring forward for ratification ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue . along with other parliamentarian , I be pleased , but also move , to watch the " Ocean with David Attenborough " documentary with David Attenborough in the House of Lords . I can assure she that I and this Government be already resolve to ensure that that treaty be ratify and the Bill bring forward . have watch the documentary , I will ensure that we do that in a timely fashion . this week , my office have have to respond to several concern incident of misinformation regard police investigation in my constituency . in one case , a national newspaper seek to sensationalise a very serious incident in which an officer be investigate for gross misconduct . in another , a false claim that a mugging be carry out by an asylum seeker , when in fact it be a british national know to police , be spread on social medium . do the Leader of the House agree that it be irresponsible to cast judgment on such serious issue without full knowledge of the fact , and will she consider grant parliamentary time for a debate on how we can tackle misinformation in our community and ensure police can carry out their duty without such interference ? I be sorry to hear of the case that my hon . friend describe . she be right that the quick spreading of misinformation and disinformation on social medium and elsewhere in such case can be of great concern in relation to safety on our street and protection of our public servant and other . indeed , it can cause real problem , as we see last summer . we be take action in that regard . the Online Safety Act 2023 be not as strong in this area as it could have be , but we will work to strengthen the law where necessary . may we have a debate in Government time on the three flagrant breach of the ministerial code commit by the Defence Secretary on Monday ? for the record , the opposition receive their copy of the strategic defence review mid - afternoon , the medium receive it at 10 . 30 am , and defence company receive it at 8 o ' clock in the morning . within minute , there be share price spike in a number of defence stock . section 8 . 11 of the " Ministerial Code " clearly state : " where commercially sensitive material be involve , no copy should be make available to the medium before publication . " I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that I understand he want clarification , but a business question from a Front - Bench spokesperson on his own subject be not normally accept . thank you for that , Mr Speaker , but I be happy to address some of the issue in that question , albeit from the right hon . Gentleman sit on the Back Benches . I gently remind the right hon . Gentleman that the process that be follow by the Ministry of Defence , which include make available in advance security briefing for Opposition Members and other , as well as a reading room , be exactly the same process that be follow in previous sdr . [ interruption . ] he may want to look at that . I understand that his Front - Bench boss , the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , be offer that briefing and to go into the reading room — a briefing that he decline to take up . that be what be follow , as on every other occasion . that be why I say early that the Defence Secretary , who take his commitment to this House incredibly seriously , want to ensure that , for this and all future government , there be a process to agree so that on future occasion everybody can be clear about the expectation of timing and how thing can be follow . Harry , a constituent of mine , be suffer from cancer . he have just finish gruelle chemotherapy and he now need radiotherapy . he have be offer radiotherapy 170 mile away from where he live . he have be tell that he need to pay for his transport and the accommodation for himself and his family during the treatment that have be offer . that be at the same time as the Rutherford centre , a state - of - the - art cancer treatment centre that be a stone ' s throw away from where Harry live , have be close for a number of year . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how the NHS and the Government can come together to ensure that that fantastic facility can be use in the good interest of people in the region ? I be sorry to hear about what be happen to Harry , and I be sure we all want to wish he well in the treatment he need to get . my hon . friend be absolutely right that although state - of - the - art cancer treatment be available , they be not as widely available as they should be , and we have a lot far to go in ensure that people be quickly treat near where they live . we will publish a dedicated national cancer plan this year , and I will ensure that the House be update on that . we have already relaunche the child and young people cancer taskforce . I will absolutely look at the case he raise and see what far can be do . my constituent Katie from Tring , during her exemption period for access to free NHS dental care as a new mother , look at every dental surgery for 50 mile and be unable to get an appointment . not only do we need to deal with the dental crisis , but Katie be call for an extension to that exemption period . please can we have a debate in the House on the grow crisis in dental care access ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise this issue . it be something that we and all our constituent can relate to . access to NHS dentistry fall far short of what any of we would want it to be . the previous Conservative Government leave a huge number of NHS dentistry desert around the country , and it sound like her constituent be live in one of they . we be take this seriously . we be commit to roll out 700 , 000 more NHS dental appointment , and I will ensure that the hon . Lady and everybody else be keep update . paragraph 7 . 36 of " Erskine May " state the process for set out the ratification of international treaty . the Government ' s treaty tracker say the global oceans treaty that the Leader of the House refer to early have not be ratify , and yet the BBNJ treaty — the global oceans treaty — be lay before this House on 16 October 2023 . it appear the Government be mislead themselves in believe that they have to introduce legislation implement the treaty before they can ratify it . would she meet I to discuss the conundrum that appear to be stop we go to the UN oceans conference next week and lay the instrument of ratification so that the treaty can come into force ? we be absolutely committed to ratify that treaty and agreement . the Environment Secretary be at the summit this weekend to discuss the lead role that this country be take to protect our ocean for generation to come . we will introduce a Bill to ratify that treaty and will do so in time for when we need to do so next year . I assure my hon . friend that the House will be update shortly on the matter . Yarm be be batter by Stockton ' s Labour council ' s rush to build far too many house far too fast in all the wrong place . it be place unbearable pressure on our road , school and GP surgery . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on how we tackle such irresponsible over - development ? we make no apology for want to build more home — more affordable home , more social home — for people to live in , which , frankly , the hon . member ' s Government fail to do in all their time in office . but that be not to say that it be a developer free - for - all . community should have a say in where those home , and what type of home , be build , but we need to go far and fast to ensure that the affordable home that everybody need to live in be build . I be regularly contact by park home resident in my constituency , of which there be more than 500 , about the unique challenge they face . resident of Radcliffe Park and Tollerton Park , in particular , raise issue such as energy cost , their relationship with site owner and , most importantly , the 10 % sale commission that trap resident in their home . do the Leader of the House agree that park home should be an area of focus for this Government , and will she find time for member to discuss this formally ? park home , and particularly the site owner ' commission on sale , be regularly raise with I at business question . I be sure a debate would be very popular be my hon . friend to apply for one . this government will set out action on this in due course , and I encourage he to speak to the relevant Minister , which I be happy to facilitate . this week the Government announce an enormous investment in transport project in metropolitan area , but nothing for rural area . give that almost a fifth of the population live in rural and coastal area , and that many of they , like North Shropshire , have very poor public transport , can we have a debate in Government time to consider how we might invest in really good public transport project , such as the Oswestry to Gobowen railway line , to unleash growth in rural area ? I reassure the hon . Lady that the big announcement on the £ 15 billion transport infrastructure project for metro mayoral area be just a start , and that there be more to come . I be sure she will recognise that this Government be absolutely committed to rural transport . that be why we have the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill go through Parliament , and it be why we have cap bus fare at £ 3 , which be particularly relevant to rural community where fare have go through the roof in recent year . I can assure the hon . Lady that there be more to come . I welcome this Government ' s progress on reduce NHS waiting list in physical health , but there be currently 1 . 6 million people on mental health waiting list . People be eight time more likely to have to wait 18 month for treatment if their condition be mental rather than physical . research by the charity Rethink Mental Illness show that long waiting list can lead to deterioration of symptom , suicide attempt and people drop out of the workforce . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on mental health waiting time so that we can address this crisis in our NHS ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . he be right that mental health service be in crisis and , frankly , be just not fit for purpose . that be what we inherit , which be why we be take immediate step to improve early intervention and prevention and to shift care into community . we be recruit 8 , 500 mental health worker , and we be currently take the Mental Health Bill through Parliament to boost mental health in this country . Greenergy operate a biodiesel facility at Immingham in my constituency , but it have have to go into a cold shutdown and review the future of its operation . this be in part due to subsidise import from the US and the need to review the renewable transport fuel obligation , which affect not just the Immingham plant but business up and down the country . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate or an urgent statement on the renewable transport fuel obligation ? I be sorry to hear about the incident in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and the impact that the renewable transport fuel obligation be have on the renewable sector there . we have Energy Security and Net Zero question come up next week , and he may want to raise this . I will say that this situation be why this Government be work so hard to ensure that we have trade deal with America , and we secure one ahead of many other country . it be also why we be absolutely committed to our clean energy mission , which be drive we forward . I be work with local business and political leader across Cumbria to make the case for much - need investment in upgrade the Cumbria coast , or energy coast , rail line . this line be essential for two national endeavour : the Barrow shipyard and the nuclear decommissioning work at Sellafield . we need to improve both freight and passenger capacity on the line , so will the Leader of the House assist I in secure a meeting with ministerial colleague in the Department for Transport to help make this case ? my hon . friend make a strong case for how important nuclear energy be to his constituency and the whole country , and link up the asset that exist in Barrow and Cumbria be vital to our clean energy mission . I will assist he in facilitate a meeting , because we need to join up these issue and ensure that transport and connectivity be a key part of our industrial strategy and clean energy mission . the right of an elect representative to challenge the Executive be a core tenet of our democracy and something we be fortunate to have defend here by Mr Speaker . however , on Tuesday night in Fermanagh and Omagh district council , the Sinn F é in group move a motion to silence an Ulster Unionist councillor — one of my party colleague , Mark Ovens — for question one of their decision . he be not just gag ; he be silence for the entirety of that meeting . do the Leader of the House agree that such an action be undemocratic and that , despite labour ' s majority and how tempting it may be , she would never contemplate such an action in this place nor think it be appropriate in a democratically elect Chamber ? I do not know about the case the hon . member refer to , but I can assure he that , much as I might like to silence some of my colleague in this place , I know that my job as Leader of the House and everyone ' s job in this House be to ensure that every single Member have the opportunity to make their voice hear loud and clear . we will be take step to ensure that in local government , too , we have high standard and high level of accountability and transparency , and that be something this government uphold as well . biosecurity be national security , and farmer in South Norfolk be on the frontline in that battle , whether they be in Morningthorpe or Norton Subcourse . we see at first hand the effect of bluetongue and avian influenza . this week ' s report from the National Audit Office on animal disease be a wake - up call for the whole House . can we have a statement from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on what action the Minister will take in response to those concern ? I know that my hon . friend have be press this issue strongly . we will protect against animal disease and ensure that the livelihood of our farmer and rural community be protect . I know that DEFRA be work with the NAO on a plan for its recommendation , and I will ensure that he and the rest of the House be update . mobile phone signal across Bromsgrove and the village be wholly inadequate . it regularly drop out , and that be if we be lucky enough to get a signal . thing be get bad , particularly follow the roll switch - off of 3 g signal across the country . a recent real - world study in Worcestershire demonstrate that signal be actually 1 , 000 time bad than operator claim it to be . do the Leader of the House agree that this be unacceptable and that my constituent deserve well ? will she support my effort to secure a debate on the Floor of the House and a meeting with the Minister to discuss improvement ? [ Official Report , 9 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) the hon . member be right to raise the issue of poor mobile phone signal , and I be sorry to hear that it seem to be so bad in his constituency in Worcestershire . he be right : these day , this be the fourth utility . many of our constituent can not conduct their everyday life or access service , banking , benefit or pension without a good mobile phone signal and datum . I will happily help he secure a response from the Minister and a meeting . since be elect last year , my postbag have be inundate with correspondence from social housing resident who struggle to get repair do by their landlord , in some case wait for month with issue such as rat infestation , miss window and hole in the ceiling . it be absolutely unacceptable . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on social housing repair and how we hold social landlord to account for the accommodation they provide ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . she be right that social housing landlord do have legal duty to carry out high - standard repair and maintenance but , all too often , tenant do not have the recourse they need to hold their housing provider to account . we be strengthen that in the Renters ' Rights Bill , which be reach its closing stage in the House of Lords , but we have to ensure that tenant , whether in the social or private sector , have that recourse and ability to hold their landlord to account . no one who have watch David Attenborough ' s film " Ocean " , to which the Leader of the House have already refer , will fail to have be move and terrify by the senseless destruction of our ocean , the lifeblood of our planet . in order to save our sick ocean , we need to safeguard about 30 % of they ; only about 3 % be currently marine protect . next week , the UN will hold an ocean conference in Nice . will she ensure that we receive a statement from the Government on the outcome of the conference and what the Government will do to protect our very sick ocean ? the hon . member highlight just a few of the very moving and powerful impact of that documentary , which I be sure many people have watch . it be hard to not be move by the scale of the challenge , and the destruction in recent year , but also by the hope in that documentary that the ocean can quickly recover if we be all willing to take the step necessary to protect it . that be why I be delighted that the Environment Secretary be go to the UN summit later this week , and it be why the Government be commit to ratify the ocean treaty in good time . let we see if we can speed thing up and get everybody in . if not , people will miss out . my constituent , who have live here for 10 year and be from Ukraine , be join by her parent , who be flee the conflict . they set up a bank account when they arrive here and try to transfer some of their money . the bank immediately shut down their bank account , which also result in my constituent ' s bank account be shut down . there must be a number of people in this situation ; it be no way to treat people who be flee conflict . can we have a statement from the banking Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , so that we can find out exactly what be go on here , and force the bank to treat people with a bit more respect ? I be really sorry to hear about the case that my hon . friend identify . I think the banking Minister will shortly be in the House for a debate this afternoon , but I will ensure that he get a full update . will the Leader of the House bring forward a specific debate that focus on the 80th anniversary of VJ Day and the end of the war in the far east , so that the horrific condition in which those , for example , in the King ' s Own Scottish Borderers have to fight and the condition that people face as prisoner of war can be properly recognise ? we have a debate on the 80th anniversary of VE Day , but — as in 1945 — the end of the war in Europe overshadow those event in the far east . the right hon . member be absolutely right to raise the particular lesson that we should learn from the end of the war in the far east , and the importance of recognise VJ Day in its own right . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be in his place ; I will speak to he , and look myself at whether we can allocate some time to do just as the right hon . Member ask . I be sure that the whole House will join I in congratulate Nicky Wright , who be last week name consultant of the year in the Women in Construction and Engineering Awards . Nicky ' s career start with work in Iraq and Angola , and now she be part of the leadership team deliver the fantastic transformation of Gatwick airport . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate Nicky ' s achievement , and help I to make sure that great voice like Nicky ' s be feature in the Government ' s work on construction , skill and growth in the future ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Nicky Wright on what sound like a tremendous career that we should applaud . he be right that get more young woman and girl attract to science , technology , engineering and math be critical , and I hope that Nicky and other will play a role in that . my constituent Olivia be fight for Archie ' s law — new legislation to improve the quality of care for critically ill infant and child — after tragically lose her baby boy Archie . I have raise the matter with the Secretary of State , but the response so far have fail to specifically address Archie ' s law , and I have wait for the late since February . will the Leader of the House raise the matter with the Health Secretary , and ensure that Archie ' s law get a fair hearing ? I will raise the matter with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . I be sorry that I do not know more detail about the proposal , but there be other device , such as the presentation of Bills and ten - minute rule Bills , and other opportunity that the hon . Member might wish to use to raise such a new law on the Floor of the House . Kirstie Bavington be a two - time european female welterweight boxing champion from my constituency , yet even with those achievement she be still work as a PE teacher while pursue her dream of make box a full - time career . will my right hon . friend agree to a debate in Government time on increase funding for female athlete , so that champion like Kirstie can pursue sport as a full - time career and achieve true parity in opportunity and support ? woman ' s sport have be raise a few time this morning . it will always make a popular topic for a debate , but I join my hon . friend in congratulate her constituent and encourage other . and it be the rugby league woman ' s cup final on Saturday . I know that you , Mr Speaker , be an animal lover , like I and my Basildon and Billericay constituent , although sadly some people be not . after some horrific case , will the Leader of the House push the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to get on with its consultation on license animal welfare centre ? if not , will she allow a debate in Government time on this issue on the Floor of the House ? last night , I attend Jo Coburn ' s " Daily Politics " leave do , and the spat that the right hon . Gentleman and I have on her show on a few occasion be feature in her leave video . I think I probably come out well than he , but we will leave that for another day ! the right hon . Gentleman raise the important matter of animal welfare , to which this Government be committed . I will ensure that DEFRA continue to keep the House update on the very many area where we be make progress in this regard . next week , we have the second day of debate on Report for the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , which be important to many of my exeter constituent . do the Leader of the House agree with I and with Ruth Fox of the Hansard Society that consideration of the Bill should continue to be thorough and with significant time allocate to the process ? we will be debate the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill far next Friday , and probably soon thereafter . we all have different view about the issue itself , but I agree with my hon . friend that the process have be incredibly thorough — in part thank to your support , Mr Speaker , for ensure that there be ample time for debate on the Floor of the House . we have a full day of debate on Second reading , there be over 90 hour of debate in Committee and there have already be one day of debate on remain stage , and there be likely to be a further two . that mean more time will probably have be give to the Bill than to most substantial piece of Government legislation . my constituent Anthony ' s husband ' s emergency and urgent care be compromise because hospital staff could not access his medical record , even though he have be treat by specialist in the same hospital . can we have a debate on ensure that patient record can be access swiftly by clinician across hospital trust within region , so that patient be not endanger by the inability of software system to communicate within the NHS ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this issue . I be sure that many people would be surprised to realise that datum sharing do not happen in the way that we all imagine it do between different part of the NHS . we be committed to ensure that can happen in order to unlock much improved service , and to provide we with a great deal of datum and information to help we continue to improve those service . tomorrow mark the start of Pride weekend in Blackpool — a town that have always be a little loud and prouder than most . Blackpool have long be a sanctuary for the LGBTQ + community and a place where queer joy have always find a home . I be look forward to march in the parade on Saturday and join local at the Lord Street party on Sunday . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate Blackpool Pride and send everyone our good wish for a joyful weekend ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in recognise that Blackpool be loud and prouder when it come to Pride and celebrate our LGBT community . I hope he have a fantastic day there ; I have see he at Manchester Pride many time before . I wish to draw to attention to the increase vulnerability of religious minority in Syria , particularly the Alawite community . recent report have highlight renew sectarian violence , place Alawites at heighten risk amid broad instability and government failure to foster inclusivity . in addition , Syria ' s 2025 interim constitution enshrine islamic jurisprudence as the primary source of law , effectively restrict legal protection for religious minority . will the Leader of the House contact the Foreign Secretary to ask what assessment the Foreign Office have make of those development and what representation he have make to press international partner ? I thank the hon . gentleman for once again raise important issue of freedom of religion or belief — in this case , regard the Alawite community in Syria . I will absolutely ensure that he get a full response . in Kirkby , 160 household in Willow Rise and Beech Rise face eviction because their tower block have be condemn . the private owner have fail to carry out essential fire safety work , and resident would already have be force out if it be not for Knowsley council temporarily fund a wake watch . we need urgent Government support . will the Leader of the House pass on my thank to the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , for meet I and use her good office to press the urgency of a support package to help to rehome my constituent ? that be a shocking case in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which I know have rightly attract a great deal of attention . I congratulate she on continue to press the matter . this government expect landlord and freeholder to cover the cost of decant resident , include provide suitable alternative accommodation , and the loss of income that may come from that . I will absolutely ensure that the Minister continue to work with my hon . friend to make sure that happen in this case . my constituent Caitlin be coerce into sign a joint lease with her abuser just four day before he be arrest on charge relate to domestic violence . he be convict , but she be still trap in the lease for a property that she have never live in and she be liable for rent that he refuse to pay . the estate agent tell we that they have a legal responsibility to chase rent arrear . survivor in Caitlin ' s position be unable to fully move on from their abuse , even after justice have be do in the court . will the Leader of the House help I to arrange a meeting with the Minister for safeguard to discuss a legislative solution to this problem and well support for survivor of domestic violence ? I be sure we all recognise these case from our own constituency . such circumstance be absolutely shocking . I assure my hon . friend that our Renters ' Rights Bill , which have nearly reach its concluding stage in the House of Lords , will remove fix - term assure tenancy and prevent anyone in the future from be lock into exactly the situation that he describe . I will ensure that a Minister meet with he to discuss that . follow on from my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , let I say that this week mark a tragic week : the 41st anniversary of the raid on the Golden Temple in Amritsar . some 41 year later , question about british involvement in the desecration of the holy Sikh site in Amritsar remain unanswered . Labour promise in its 2017 and 2019 manifesto to hold an inquiry , and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister pledge to do so before the last election . will the Leader of the House allow time for an update from the Foreign Secretary on the progress of implement that inquiry and ensure that promise make in opposition be fulfil in government ? I really do understand how important it be for the Sikh community to see progress on this issue — that be the second time that it have be raise with I this morning . I will ensure that the Foreign Secretary be aware of the concern be raise again on the Floor of the House and that the update I previously ask for be make available to member and this House . Penrith and Solway , like constituency across the country , be litter with empty list building . many be rot , with neglectful owner who be often not even require to pay rate . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time to discuss how we stop this disgraceful trashing of our heritage ? my hon . friend raise the really important issue of empty list building and how they could be bring back into use and make well use of . I will absolutely ensure that a Minister give he a full reply . I call Perran Moon . Meur ras bras , Mr Speaker . new datum from the Office for National Statistics on sickness absence rate be publish yesterday . as a Cornish MP , I be particularly concerned that the south - west have the high sickness absence across the whole of the UK . Sickness absence follow poverty , and Cornwall ' s poverty figure have be mask by wealthy pensioner move there , mean less support per capita from central Government . do the Leader of the House agree that remote coastal area , like Cornwall , need fairer funding settlement than those that we have have in recent year to lift people out of sickness and get they back to work ? I absolutely agree that we have to get people out of sickness and back into work . that be why this government be bring forward reform to the universal credit health element to ensure that people be not consign to sickness for a long period , but encourage back to work . rochdale ' s award - win trading standard team have lead the country in expose the spread of ghost car number plate , which allow child sex offender , speed motorist and drug dealer to avoid police detection camera . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Darren Hughen and Dennis Chalmers , who visit Parliament this week , and will she support my campaign and that of my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) to outlaw ghost car number plate ? absolutely . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , my parliamentary private Secretary , be not in her place today , but I know she have be work with my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) and other on the campaign to get rid of ghost plate . their campaigning have be fantastic at highlight this issue and the problem it cause , and I know that Transport Ministers be look at it . tough Enough to care be a man ' s mental health charity that work to remove the toxic stigma around mental health . I have the privilege of attend one of its meeting in Wirksworth , where I witness the incredible work that that charity be do to ensure more man get the support they need . will the Leader of the House join I in acknowledge the great work be do by tough Enough to care , and acknowledge the important role that man ' s mental health charity play in ensure that few man take their own life ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those who work with tough Enough to care , and thank he for highlight the important work that it do . it be still absolutely shocking that the big cause of death for man under the age of 50 be suicide , and the work of tough Enough to care and other be vital in address that . let we help each other . I call Jayne Kirkham . thank you , Mr Speaker . can the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on a more robust range of censure and sanction option for serious breach of the local government member ' code of conduct , include suspension and removal of councillor ? I know of recent incident in which , despite egregious behaviour by councillor elect unopposed , those councillor remain in post , regardless of the wish of their community and their council . we want to see high standard in public life , include in local government and among councillor . we be look at how we can take step and bring forward legislation to continue to raise standard in local government . I recently visit the fantastic repair caf é in Sawbridgeworth , which renew our everyday product and stop they go into landfill . as we mark Volunteers ' week , will the Leader of the House join I in thank the volunteer at that repair caf é and all the volunteer across Hertford and Stortford for their hard work ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those volunteer for their really hard work . on 12 April , a man require hospital treatment after be attack by at least five man , who have early make homophobic remark outside the Old Bridge hotel in Holmfirth in my constituency . in response , local resident have unite to organise Holmfirth ' s first ever Pride , which will take place this Saturday . will the Leader of the House join I in wish attendee at Pride a great time , but can we also have a debate in Government time on what further action we can take to tackle hate crime ? this Government stand absolutely against homophobic hate crime of that kind . my hon . friend might want to take up these issue when we consider the Crime and Policing Bill , not next week but the week after . I wish all those take part in Holmfirth ' s first Pride the good of luck . Redditch United football club be showcase the importance of the UK ' s lead gambling harm charity , Gordon Moody , by display its logo on next year ' s shirt . will the Leader of the House join I in praise Redditch United and Gordon Moody for this innovative collaboration , which demonstrate how local sport can be a force for good in tackle addiction ? I join my hon . friend in thank Gordon Moody and Redditch United football club for all the work they be do to support people . and it be the Challenge cup final on Saturday . Free School Meals with permission , I will make a statement to update the House on free school meal for child . this be a Government who put child first — they be at the centre of the change that we want to see , because what we do for our child , we do for our country . if we want to break the unfair link between background and success , deliver opportunity to every home and shape a fairer society , that have to start with our child . it have to start with the fundamental : make sure that every family have a stable , love home where no child lack food or warmth . that simple dignity should be the uncontroversial birthright of every child as they grow up in a civilised society , but after 14 long year , that dignity be not universal , nor that birthright uncontroversial . when this Government win the trust of the british people , which Conservative Members forfeit last July , the legacy of the Conservatives ' shameful record in power be a record number of child grow up in poverty . some 4 . 5 million child be rob of opportunity and hope , of life chance and of possibility . child poverty be a scar on our society . it be a mark of the failure of Conservative Members to grow the economy , to spread success to work people and to deliver for the next generation the ordinary hope that tomorrow will be well than today . the last Government do not see the grow number of family in deep poverty as a failure to be address , but let I be clear that the grow number of child on free school meal under the last Government be an index of failure , not a story of success . this Government be determined to turn the picture around , tackle child poverty and spread growth and opportunity to every family in every part of our country . that be why today I be announce the big expansion of free school meal eligibility in England in a generation , because we can and must end the scourge of child poverty . today , we be set out that we will give every child whose family be in receipt of universal credit the entitlement to free school meal . that mean not simply meal in mouth but , crucially , money back in the pocket of parent and family on an unprecedented scale . this be a historic change for child and for family , with 100 , 000 child lift out of poverty . that be the mark of a Government who be serious about back parent and tackle child poverty , the mark of a Government with a plan for change and the mark of a Government with the idea , investment and determination to see it through . on that note , this Government ' s child poverty taskforce , which my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education co - chair with the Work and Pensions Secretary , be forge ahead . we have listen to parent , to charity and to people with live experience , and now we be act , bring the change that child and family deserve . in the month and year to come , that change will be shape by the child poverty strategy , which we will publish later this year . this be an intervention that back parent as well as child . our free school meal expansion will put up to £ 495 back in parent ' pocket every year . for they , that mean more freedom in how they support their family , more choice in how they care for their child and more opportunity to get on and live a good life . our expansion of free school meal be not just about the here and now ; it be an investment in our child ' s future . it set they free from the worry and strain of grow up in poverty , leave they free to learn and play and to do their very good in school . today ' s announcement be not only anti - poverty , but pro - learning . I know that member across the House will agree with I when I say that those two cause shine brightest when they shine together . that be what the evidence tell we . these meal need to be healthy . school food standard have not be revise since 2014 , but this Government be act quickly to put that right . that be why I be pleased to announce today that we be work with expert from across the sector to revise those standard . we be support school with the late nutritional guidance , because the benefit for child of get a decent , healthy meal at school be huge , with their attendance higher , their focus sharper , their behaviour well , their grade strong and their future brighter . that chance to succeed should be open to all . that be the sort of society I want to live in and that this Government want to build , but the kind of change that our child need be not the work of a single day or a single policy , even one as important as this . that be why today ' s announcement be part of our wide approach and moral mission with the child poverty strategy , the opportunity mission and this Government ' s plan for change . we have already begin roll out school - base nursery and 30 hour of government - fund childcare , save parent up to £ 7 , 500 a year . child be already eat , play and learn together as our free breakfast club reach 750 early adopter school , save parent another £ 450 a year . we be cut the cost of school uniform for 4 . 2 million child , save some parent £ 50 in their back - to - school shop . on top of that , we be recruit more teacher , drive high and rise standard in our school , reform child ' s social care , boost the early year pupil premium and so much more . grow up in Fratton , I see at first hand the devastating impact that poverty can have on child in Portsmouth . friend come to school hungry and not ready to learn . that be why I be proud to stand here today as we offer a help hand to ensure that every child , whatever their background and wherever they come from , achieve and thrive . we be deliver the change that parent need and that child deserve — the change that will break the unfair link between background and success once and for all . that mean do everything in our power to end child poverty . today , we say enough be enough . today , we begin to turn the tide . today , the fightback that begin in July last year kick up a gear . we be act to secure a bright future for our child and for our country too . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the truth be that the family benefit from today ' s announcement be the same one who be pay for it , because the same group of people be hit hard by Labour ' s national insurance increase . Labour promise not to increase national insurance , but it break that promise , and someone earn just £ 13 , 000 a year will now take home £ 500 less as a result of the tax increase . someone on just £ 9 , 000 a year — the exact sort of person who be suppose to benefit from this policy — will lose 5 % of their income . the Government want to talk about the impact of the money they be give today on poverty , but they do not want to talk about the impact of the much large sum of money they be take away . disgracefully , they have not do any distributional analysis of the £ 25 billion that they be take away , which be particularly target at low - income household . will the Minister say how many household that will push into poverty ? will he finally admit what the figure be ? while free school meal be obviously welcome , the thing that be be cut to pay for they be much less welcome . for example , the Government break their promise to fully fund the national insurance increase for school , and some have be short - change by 35 % . they also break their promise to fully fund the pay award . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , that leave a £ 400 million funding hole for our school . under the last government , although there be an increase in achievement across the board , the big increase be in the low half of the income distribution . that be much hard to achieve when the Government have take £ 400 million out of our school . what else be be do to balance the cost ? we already know that the Government have cut support for math , science , physics , Latin , computing and cadet in school , and get rid of the successful behaviour hub . we know that nursery , which the Minister talk about , be say they be on the brink because of the national insurance increase . in fact , the Early Years Alliance say the situation be " catastrophic " . we know that the Department for Education recently announce a real - term cut of 10 % to university teaching grant , and it have abolish 90 % of high apprenticeship — funnily enough , they announce that during the recess . now the education press be say that the next cost - save measure to pay for announcement like this will be to abolish education , health and care plan for everything other than special school . will the Minister rule that out today ? if he do not rule it out , the whole House will hear , and we will know exactly what be go to happen next . turn to the number , what be the real net effect of all this ? transitional protection be establish in 2018 to ensure that pupil who gain FSM would not lose they while universal credit be be roll out . that have roughly double the proportion of pupil who be eligible from 13 . 6 % to 25 . 7 % . however , the Department for Education have announce that those protection will now end in September 2026 , when the new policy come in . by how much will the end of those transitional protection reduce the number of child who be eligible for FSM ? be I right in think that it be by 1 . 2 million ? will the Minister agree — he be look away — to finally publish a figure ? how many child who have be on transitional protection will lose their free school meal when they change phase of education ? will the Minister finally admit to the figure ? there be another sting in the tail today , because school budget be go to be hit — that be how this policy be be pay for . that be because FSM be the gateway to pupil premium funding . the pupil premium be a great achievement of the Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition Government , and it be worth £ 1 , 480 per pupil in primary school and a bit over £ 1 , 000 in secondary school . as a result of today ' s decision , school be go to lose that funding . with 1 . 2 million pupil on transitional protection , bring with they about £ 1 , 200 each , school be go to lose the £ 1 . 5 billion currently go to they in pupil premium funding . will that funding be replace by this announcement ? no , because today the Government have for the first time break the link between FSM eligibility and pupil premium funding . on one side of the ledger , £ 1 . 5 billion have be lose , and on the other side of the ledger , school be not get it back . I have wonder where all the money be come from , and now of course we know . I ask the Minister to spit it out : how much will this decision cost school , and how much be it save the DFE ? on a similar point , will the Minister confirm that the Government will apply the same approach to holiday activity and food , which would also not trigger an increase in that funding ? be the same also true of home - school transport , and how be this all be pay for ? I think we need a little more detail . opposition member have become rather cautious about positive - sound announcement from this Government . for example , the other day Ministers be here to announce that they would continue the adoption and special guardianship support fund , but it must just have slip their mind to mention that it be be cut by 40 % . that be why we like to know the detail when we get positive announcement . I will end by ask some question about the fact . will the Minister agree to publish information on how many child be currently on transitional protection and how much the end of that protection will reduce entitlement to free school meal ? will he agree to publish how much pupil premium funding school will lose overall as a result of break the link between FSM and the pupil premium ? just to ask again , so that the whole House hear the answer , will he rule out abolish ehcp outside special school — yes or no ? I can not believe that I do not hear the Opposition spokesperson welcome our announcement . it be a shame that when the Conservatives be in government tackle child poverty be not consider a priority . I feel a little sorry for the spokesperson , who claim to care about education , give that his only policy be to give private school a tax break . indeed , on the Conservatives ' watch , child poverty grow to record high and they wear the increase number in child poverty as a badge of honour . frankly , that be shameful . this increase in free school meal be fully fund , and that be possible thank to the difficult decision that this Government and the Chancellor have have to take to get the economy grow and put the public finance back on a stable footing . I be excited to hear the Chancellor set out more detail next week . that be despite the mess we inherit from the Conservatives . why have the spokesperson not take the opportunity today to say sorry for his Government ' s shameful record on child poverty ? he have nothing to say on education for our country . unlike they , we will not sit by and watch more child fall into poverty . unlike they , we be not offer a tax break for private school . we be deliver positive change for our country . we be give child back the opportunity to achieve and thrive . with this announcement , we be ensure that every child , no matter what their background , get the good start in life . [ interruption . ] order . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I warmly welcome the expansion of the free school meal entitlement . it be an evidence - base approach for which many of we have campaign for a long time . it will help to close the disadvantage gap in our school , tackle child poverty , benefit child ' s health and support child to learn . I hope the Government will agree that every child who be eligible for this expand entitlement should be able to receive that entitlement . whether or not child get a free school meal to which they be entitle should not depend on somebody else make an application for they through a complicated process . the Government know which family be in receipt of universal credit , so be the Minister consider auto - enrolment for this expand entitlement ? that would be easy to achieve than auto - enrolment under the previous entitlement , and every child really should be able to benefit . can I seek the Minister ' s assurance that this very positive announcement be not an indication that other measure to reduce child poverty , such as scrap the two - child cap , have be take off the table ? finally , as a London MP and a former Southwark councillor who be very proud to be part of a council that introduce universal free school meal in 2010 — we have see the benefit of that policy , and I be proud we have a Mayor who be fund universal free school meal for all primary schoolchildren in London — can I ask for confirmation that London will also receive the funding for this expand entitlement , so it can be put to the benefit of far reduce child poverty in London ? I thank my hon . friend , the Select Committee Chair , for her constructive comment and for welcome today ' s announcement . make all child in household claim universal credit eligible for free school meal make it straightforward for parent to know whether they be eligible . we be support that by take forward a programme of work , include improvement to our own system , which will make apply for free school meal easy than it ever have be . as I mention in my statement , our proposal be fully fund . more broadly , we will set out more detail in the forthcoming child poverty strategy around a number of the other measure she describe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . I warmly welcome this announcement , which will make such a difference to the life of child up and down the country . we know the impact that free school meal can have . a hot , healthy meal in the middle of the day help child to learn , concentrate and thrive . make sure a child do not go hungry in school can truly change their life . that be why Liberal Democrats have for so long champion free school meal . that be why we have long call on successive government to take this step . that be why this policy be in our election manifesto last year . I be delighted that , even though it be not in Labour ' s manifesto , they be take our idea today . the Liberal Democrats introduce universal infant free school meal when we be in government , and we be today share in the joy of the tireless campaigner and struggle family for whom this announcement be such as victory . for far too long , far too many child in this country have go hungry through the school day . the previous Conservative Government ignore the advice of their own food tsar , Henry Dimbleby , and even Michael Gove , to leave child in poverty without the meal they deserve and need . this announcement can only be the start . we need to see the policy fully fund and properly implement . we need to see auto - enrolment , as the Chair of the Select Committee say , so that every child receive the meal they be entitle to , because thousand of eligible child currently miss out . now we know that the Government be finally look to the Liberal Democrats for policy idea on tackle the cost of learning , may I urge they to look again at cap the cost of brand uniform item , not the number of brand uniform item ? lastly , if the Government be serious about tackle the scourge of child poverty , will they finally scrap the two - child benefit cap ? I thank the hon . member for welcome so positively the announcement today . she have be , like so many other in her party , a real champion on these matter . she have make clear in this place how important the policy will be to child ' s wellbee , attainment and attendance , and I of course wholeheartedly agree with she . I note her call for auto - enrolment . she make those point at various interval during the Committee stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and I look forward to work with she to hear her view go forward . we will , of course , continue to improve way of register child for free school meal , as I set out early , and today ' s announcement make that easy for family and school . I also pay tribute to school food campaigner , who I meet on a regular basis , for help to get we to today ' s announcement . I look forward to continue to work with the hon . Lady through the passage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and to work constructively to improve the life chance of child and young people across our country . in July , I come from the classroom to this Chamber . I have see the harm that poverty do to child , particularly those from family on universal credit who be not able to claim free school meal , probably because their parent be graft in low - pay job or in insecure work . do the Minister agree that have 500 , 000 more child fully entitle to a nutritious school dinner will boost school attendance and help narrow the education gap that widen under the Tories ? my hon . friend be a real champion for child and young people in her constituency and in this place . as she rightly say , this announcement represent a significant expansion of food support for disadvantaged pupil in school , reach more than half a million pupil and lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . it really demonstrate that we be a mission - drive Government . the anti - poverty and pro - learn measure that we have set out today be a downpayment on the child poverty strategy . I look forward to work with my hon . friend as we deliver this positive change for her constituency . many of the school in my constituency have be unable to take up the offer of breakfast club because , frankly , they do not have the facility — either to provide breakfast in the first place or for the child to eat in , which be a real challenge . I want to ask the Minister about one specific issue , because I be concerned that it may create a cliff edge for parent . if the parent of a child attend school qualify for universal credit but then later get job , or well - pay job , and therefore no long qualify for universal credit , would that child then lose their eligibility for free school meal ? that could create a real problem for many parent and present we with a cliff edge . I be sure that be not the Government ' s intention , but we need to make the position clear . the hon . Gentleman set out the current position and what have happen in the past . what we be announce today will lift more child out of poverty , because more child will be eligible for free school meal . he make a number of point on breakfast club ; obviously , we be commit to roll out the club to every primary school in the country . I would be delighted to meet he to hear his particular thought and view on how that can make the big difference in his constituency . hungry child do not learn , so I thank the Government for listen to those of we who have long campaign for this announcement . this government ' s reform be start to put more money into people ' s pocket , tackle the root cause of poverty , but they will take time to bed in — time that hungry child simply do not have . the Minister know that poverty be all - encompass and extend well beyond the school day . will he give the 470 , 000 child affect by the cruel two - child benefit cap some hope today that the Government be seriously consider scrap the cap , and consider scrap it very soon ? as my hon . friend know , this Government be determined to bring down child poverty . this be a complex area that we need to get right , and it be not for I to comment on particular speculation at the moment . extensive work be ongoing on the child poverty strategy , which will be publish later this year , and an update in the House will be provide in due course . as a liberal Democrat , I warmly welcome the announcement today . I stand on a manifesto that mention this policy at the previous four general election , and it be good news . however , it would be the good news if the Minister could explain more about what he mean by fully fund . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , where I proudly report that I be in my 19th year as a primary school governor , so I know that school budget be stretch to the limit . will the Minister explain what he mean when he say fully funded — do that mean fully fund from exist school budget ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for her time as a school governor , especially as we mark Volunteers ' week . the work of school governor up and down the country be invaluable , and they play a particular role in support school ' compliance with school food standard . we currently spend more than £ 1 . 5 billion on school food annually , deliver free school meal to around 3 . 5 million child . we will set out further detail on the funding as part of our wide child poverty strategy in due course . I welcome this Labour Government ' s announcement on expand eligibility for free school meal to any child with a parent in receipt of universal credit . this expand entitlement mean that nearly 8 , 500 child in year 3 to 11 in Luton South and South Bedfordshire will be eligible for free school meal . can the Minister confirm that this expansion will not only support child ' s behaviour and attainment , but save their family up to £ 500 per child per year ? my hon . friend be a real champion for child and young people in her constituency . she be absolutely right to set out the difference in the cost of live that this policy will make for parent ; as she suggest , it will also have real benefit in behaviour , attendance and attainment , as I set out in my statement . the Minister have today make a big thing about every family in every corner of our country , and he have talk about how widespread this change will be . a small number of additional people in England will be able to get additional free school meal . I be glad that the Government have extend eligibility , but it do not have the geographical reach that he be try to make out . be he to remove the two - child benefit cap , that would have an effect in every part of these island , reduce poverty in every constituency . why be this issue be kick into the long grass ? he be make an announcement on free school meal , but the Government be refuse to make announcement on the child poverty strategy that be promise in the spring . Wasn ' t that a nice try , Madam Deputy Speaker ? let we be clear : we be take urgent action in the light of the scar of poverty on our society . we have the spending review next week , and the child poverty strategy will conclude in due course . when ? if the hon . Lady have listen carefully to my statement , she would know that I say we will be announce further detail on the strategy later this year . I have chair the all - party parliamentary group on school food since set it up in 2010 , so I know all too well the many benefit of free school meal , from the economic to health benefit — it be why I have campaign for more than 18 year to extend free school meal provision . provide more child than ever with free , healthy , hot and nutritious meal can be truly life change . in my constituency , the provision will extend to a further 5 , 460 child , which be very welcome indeed , so I thank the Minister and our Government . do the Minister agree that this down payment on the child poverty strategy be only the start of this Government ' s mission to lift as many child out of poverty as possible , just as the previous Labour Government do ? my hon . friend have be a real champion on school food issue ever since she be elect to this place . I have the pleasure of meet she recently , along with campaigner she suggest I meet on these very point , so I know that her lobbying have directly influence our outcome today . we be make this announcement because of tough and necessary decision that the Chancellor have have to make . it be a step in the right direction , and we will set out more detail on the child poverty strategy in due course . I be delighted that more child will have school meal at lunch time . it be great for pupil to be well feed — as a paediatrician , I see the value of that . however , I want to ask about transitional protection and money . the transitional protection will take 1 . 2 million child out of this category ; some may go back into it with UC . however , the robbing of the money from pupil premium will leave school £ 1 . 5 billion short . how do the Minister intend to replace that £ 1 . 5 billion for school so that child can get a good education as well as school meal ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question — I think I have finally hear from someone who be actually delight by today ' s announcement . on transitional protection , it be worth say that the Department will expand free school meal eligibility from September 2026 so that all child in household in receipt of universal credit can benefit from a free nutritious lunch . as a temporary measure , we will extend transitional protection , mean that household that be on universal credit and meet the current earn income threshold of £ 7 , 400 will keep their free school meal , regardless of any change in circumstance . follow an expansion of eligibility from September next year , our intention be to end all protection . tackle poverty and inequality be in our dna , and it be why many member on the Government Benches be in this place . I welcome this announcement , as I know the more than 3 , 000 child and their family who will benefit in Newcastle - under - Lyme will welcome it , too . it be good for health , good for educational attainment and , importantly , good for the future of our young people . I very much agree with the point on auto - enrolment make by the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . with that in mind , I ask the Minister to speak to his official and find some time to come and see the benefit of our commitment to tackle child poverty in Newcastle - under - Lyme for himself when this announcement be roll out next year . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be keen to ensure that we learn from the good in local government , as we have be on auto - enrolment activity especially . as I mention early , today ' s announcement will make the whole process of apply for free school meal much simple and easy for parent , but we will certainly take on board my hon . friend ' s comment . I would be very happy to meet he to discuss these issue far . after this , we have two Select Committee statement and two Backbench Business debate . if colleague do not keep their question short , they be just deny other the opportunity to speak . vulnerable child spend many week each year — during the holiday — not at school . my own Liberal Democrat - Labour partnership local authority provide funding in the form of voucher during the school holiday . will the Government take this opportunity to end holiday hunger and provide funding for food during the holiday ? we have invest more than £ 200 million in the holiday activity and food programme , which support child , offer enrichment opportunity and provide good - quality food during the Christmas , Easter and summer provision . that be a fantastic programme that I know member across this House welcome , and a key part of our plan to ensure that every child can succeed and thrive . I warmly welcome this fantastic news this morning . I think the Minister mention that child poverty be a scourge of society , and of course it be . it be a blight on the UK that we have so many kid who do not have a full belly when they go to school . some 6 , 000 child in my constituency will now benefit from this announcement . however , can the Minister confirm that this be only the first step on a long road to universal free school meal for all child in the UK ? extensive work be ongoing on child poverty , and we will publish our strategy later this year . as part of that , we be consider all available lever to give every child the good start in life — whether that be on affordable housing , the cost of energy bill or support more parent to work . that , I think , be the change that our country need . I welcome today ' s announcement . it be a small step in the right direction , but what we need be a giant leap to end child poverty . if the Minister be serious about that , he know what he need to do : scrap the two - child benefit cap . that would lift 400 , 000 child out of poverty . the Green party have long campaign for universal free school meal . we know that the health , education and productivity benefit would more than pay for that policy . the benefit would be £ 1 . 71 for every pound invest , accord to PricewaterhouseCoopers . will the Minister consider the moral and economic case for free school meal to be make universal ? and , while he be at it , will he scrap the cruel two - child benefit cap ? as the hon . Member will have hear early , I will not comment on speculation . extensive work be under way on the child poverty strategy , which will conclude later this year . I describe this not as a small step today , but as an historic moment , as we lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and make sure that more child across the country can access free school meal . I be delighted that so many be welcome our announcement today . with one in two child in my constituency live in poverty , we now have a downpayment with a breakfast club fund by the Government at Thomas Fairchild community school and thousand of child be benefit . I be pleased that the Secretary of State have agree with Henry Dimbleby , who open the " chef in school " programme in Hackney , that we need to keep nutrition at the top of the list . my hon . friend the Chair of the Education Committee highlight that this be evidence - base policy . we know that the evidence on child poverty show that remove the two - child limit will lift most child out of poverty . can the Minister reassure we that he be really look at that evidence , work with the Department for Work and Pensions , to make sure that this announcement be just the down - payment on tackle child poverty ? as always , my hon . friend come at this from a very informed position . it be a real pleasure to visit a school in Hackney recently to see at first hand the brilliant work of the " chef in school " programme . that be why I be so delighted to say that we will be announce further detail on our school food standard work to update that guidance in due course . she mention breakfast club . we have obviously triple funding into breakfast club to over £ 30 million in this financial year , and we be make huge progress in deliver that through our early adopter scheme . I welcome this announcement from the Government and celebrate the success of the Liberal Democrats , who for many year have campaign on this policy , include my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , who have be so passionate about this issue . indeed , this be a step in the right direction . my constituency of Harpenden and Berkhamsted be often see as an affluent area , but there be pocket of poverty . charity often say that it be hard in those area , because not only be cost high , but deprivation be hide . currently , the two - child benefit cap restrict universal support to two child , push thousand of family into poverty . therefore , do these restriction mean that the third and any subsequent child would not have access to free school meal , or would simply be in a household that receive universal credit be sufficient to qualify ? I can assure the hon . member that it will be for all child in that household . more broadly , we be introduce breakfast club , which be a universal offer in every primary school across the country . other measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will cap the number of brand item on school uniform , which I think will make a real difference to the money go into parent ' pocket . I warmly welcome this statement . in my constituency , more than a quarter of all child be live in poverty , so I know that more than 6 , 000 child in Dudley will now be eligible for free school meal . the extra support will go a long way towards ensure that our child be eat healthy and nutritious meal to aid their education . will my hon . friend assure I that these free school meal will be low in fat , sugar and salt , in order also to help tackle rise childhood obesity ? if we be to get the benefit right on free school meal , we must ensure that the quality of the food be nutritious for all child . as I mention in my statement , this be good for attendance , good for behaviour and good for life chance . I hope my hon . friend will contribute to the work that we will do in revise the school food standard . sadly , a local survey recently find that close to 20 % of child in Leicester be worried about not have enough to eat . but , paradoxically , a quarter of the population of 10 to 11 - year - old in my city be clinically obese , and close to 40 % have visual sign of dental decay . I warmly welcome this announcement , but why be the Government wait till September 2026 to make these change ? will the Minister reassure we that this policy will be properly fund so that school can provide nutritious and balanced meal , and not just ultra - process food like turkey twizzler , which have be show , among many other thing , to reduce life expectancy ? I can assure the hon . member that this scheme will be fully fund . more broadly , I have set out plan for the child poverty strategy to be publish later this year . the key to a mission - drive Government be to make sure that Government Departments be work together to improve life chance for child . I be delighted that we be work closely with colleague from the Department of Health and Social Care to make that happen . I be absolutely delighted that this announcement will see more than 2 , 000 extra child qualify for free school meal in my Banbury constituency . can the Minister explain how this announcement will improve the educational attainment and behaviour of child in my constituency ? I know that my hon . friend be a real champion for child and young people from the time that I spend with he in his constituency . as he rightly say , this policy make a real difference on attainment , behaviour and attendance . I look forward to work with he as we deliver this positive change for our country . I , too , welcome the adoption of a long - stand Liberal Democrat policy and the Minister ' s encouragement of other Lib Dem policy in response to my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . there have be some discussion about the pupil premium . this policy seem to break the link between free school meal and the pupil premium , so can the Minister explain to those 2 . 2 million pupil currently in receipt of the pupil premium what safeguard will be put in place to protect it ? the hon . Member will know that the pupil premium be additional funding to improve educational outcome for disadvantaged pupil in state - fund school in England . Pupil premium funding will rise to over £ 3 billion in 2025 - 26 , an increase of almost 5 % from 2024 - 25 . we be review how we allocate pupil premium and the national funding formula deprivation fund in the long term and , while maintain the overall amount we spend on tackling challenge face by child with additional need , we will provide more information on those matter in due course . do the Minister agree that , with today ' s announcement , alongside the proactive Gravesham borough council ' s low - income family tracker programme , which have reach out and help hundred , if not thousand , of people who need it most in Gravesham , the Labour Government will lift a further 5 , 800 child who be eligible in Gravesham . be this not the great , nutritious start in life that we need ? my hon . friend really care about these issue , and I thank she for raise these matter today . this be a significant first step in our ambitious strategy to tackle child poverty and its root cause and to give every child the good start in life . I commend the work that she describe ; I know that it make a real difference to area such as her own . I warmly welcome this today ' s announcement , which have be a liberal Democrat policy for a very long time . it be so important to have proper nutrition for child so that they get the good possible start in life . in response to a question from my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) about funding , the Minister say that this will come out in due course , but that it will be fully fund . fully fund can mean that those fund come from various different place . will the Minister rule out those fund come from exist school budget , and will he also rule out place any other financial burden on to already overstretch school budget ? the new entitlement be fully fund and will support school to deliver nutritious , high - quality meal that meet school food standard to over half a million additional pupil . as I say , we will set out further detail on funding as part of the child poverty strategy to be publish later this year . I notice that not one Reform MP have turn up to hear an announcement that benefit so many working - class kid . I first join a govern body of a primary school in my constituency in 1986 and serve for 37 year . from Thatcher to Sunak , I see what be go on in our school , and I never see need like that under the last Conservative Government , so this be a very welcome statement indeed . but even this measure and all the other measure that I understand the Government be consider will not result in few child be in poverty in 2029 than be in poverty now unless we remove the two - child benefit cap . I want to add my voice to those who have already ask the Minister to assure we that the cap be be look at . we know that too many life chance be scar by poverty , which affect child up and down our country . level of poverty have increase by 900 , 000 since 2010 . it be worth say that this initiative be extra money above and beyond what already go into school . as I mention , the child poverty strategy will be publish later this year and may conclude on the issue that my hon . friend describe . I thank the Minister for his statement . it would be churlish of anybody in this Chamber not to welcome it and say well do . it just so happen that it be this Minister and this Government who have do it so well , so I give a special thank . I very much welcome the increase to free school meal . I read the Government ' s press release this morning with some interest . my question be quite specific . in Northern Ireland , one in four child experience relative poverty , with one in five in absolute poverty and two third of those with only one single parent work . our child in Northern Ireland need this help . I know that it be not this Minister ' s responsibility , but do the announcement and these money mean that the Barnett consequential will ensure that some of the benefit can come to Northern Ireland directly ? the hon . Gentleman be a real champion on these issue . he will appreciate that education be a devolved matter . the spending review next week will set out detail on the Barnett consequential . the child poverty strategy be a UK - wide document , and I know that colleague from Northern Ireland have be feed into that review . as he know , I meet regularly with my counterpart in Northern Ireland on issue of importance to the UK . as other have , I very much welcome the announcement . for the thousand of family in my constituency with child in poverty , this be a great announcement . however , I remember the Prime Minister ' s statement that the Government need to go far and fast , so I encourage the Minister when he go back to his Department to ensure that the child poverty strategy be as radical as it can be and be adequately resource . I ask he to return to the question of people on universal credit with child in poverty . can we ensure that every child benefit from this announcement , because some family lack the capacity — for all sort of reason — to make the appropriate application ? we of course want to ensure that all family that be eligible for this roll - out benefit from it . work with other Government Departments , we want to make the process as simple as possible . we be determined to bring down child poverty . we appreciate that the issue be complex , and we want to get this right . we will set out more detail in due course . order . there be 15 colleague remain . if you want I to get you all in , work with I and keep your question short please . I call Yasmin Qureshi . this be really welcome news for family in my constituency , with up to 11 , 450 child now set to benefit from free school meal . I know from speak with parent that this will make a real difference both in ease pressure at home and in help child to focus and do well in school . do the Minister agree that this be the kind of support that family have need for year , and it be a clear sign that the Government be serious about tackle child poverty and give every child a fair chance ? as I set out early , this be an intervention that be at once pro - learn and anti - poverty . we want to see high and rise standard in all our school . Excellence should be for everyone . in complete contrast , the opposition — their member be not here now ; I do not know where they have go — want to see tax break for some school for some child . the contrast have never be starker . as someone who grow up on free school meal in Rochdale , I know what a massive difference today ' s announcement will make to more than 8 , 000 of my constituent . one of my constituent , Laura Popham , be a single mum who be in work and be previously ineligible for the free school meal benefit . today she send I an email say , " this be exactly what I be hope for . I be over the moon . I want to shout from the rooftop how happy I be . only Labour would have do this . " do the Minister agree that this be exactly the kind of change that people vote for last year ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be the difference that a Labour MP and a Labour Government can make . I pay tribute to Laura for raise these issue with we . through constituent ' lobby and by hear their concern , we be deliver positive change for our country . I applaud the Government ' s decision to extend free school meal to child across the country . this initiative be a vital step in support family in need and will undoubtedly benefit many child across Blackpool , which the Minister will know , as he join I in visit primary school last year . many , include the Jamie Oliver Food Foundation , have call for accelerated effort to ensure that every child have access to nutritious meal irrespective of their background . do the Minister agree that it be imperative that we unite in our effort to guarantee that every child in Blackpool and across the country have the good possible start in life , with access to healthy food , quality education and opportunity for success ? it be a pleasure to visit primary school in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I know that he care deeply about tackle child poverty . that be why I be delighted that we be take this intervention to lift over 100 , 000 child out of poverty . he make a number of point regard good - quality nutritious food , and I hope he will work with we as we set out plan to make change in this area in due course . in my constituency 5 , 730 child will benefit from this announcement . it mean a hot meal every day and real , practical support for family who be struggle with the cost of living crisis . do the Minister agree that while we expect the Conservative party to block this support , as they have for many year , reform mp could not even be bother to turn up today ? they talk about support family , but they be nowhere to be see when it matter . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; this be the stark choice that people vote for at the last election , and I be really proud that we be get on with deliver the change that our country so desperately need . I welcome this announcement from the Government . in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , it mean a massive 47 % increase in eligibility for free school meal , but the work will not be do until all child who be eligible for free school meal be able to access they , and I have ask my local council leader to do everything they can to ensure that . I know that the Government be consider this , but do the Minister agree that council need to be do everything they can to ensure that all child who be eligible be able to access their free school meal ? I know from my hon . friend ' s previous contribution in the House that she be a real champion on these issue . make all child in household claim universal credit eligible for free school meal make it straightforward for parent to know whether they be eligible . we be support this by take forward a programme of work , include improvement to our own system , and we be work across Government to make that happen . as a Member of Parliament , I be always delighted to come to work to talk about policy such as this , which will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and give 4 , 500 child in my constituency access to free school meal . as a parent , I know how much of a difference this will make to the life of parent in my constituency . do the Minister agree that policy that give any child , wherever they be bear and whatever their background , the chance to fulfil their potential be exactly what a Labour Government should be do ? I agree with my hon . friend ; we want to ensure that every child — whatever their background , wherever they be from — can succeed and thrive . this policy be an important step in make that happen by lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . up to 3 , 130 child in South Norfolk will benefit from this measure , and two of my primary school be among the 750 in the forerunner programme for breakfast club . as the Minister be on such a roll in South Norfolk , will he help I fix the two school — Brooke primary and Wreningham — that be currently in portacabin ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss those matter far . in Darlington , I meet a lovely mother who have recently go back to work as a school dinner support worker . she be take part - time , low - pay work , and her child consequently lose eligibility for free school meal , so she be bad off . I promise she that only Labour would be on the side of low - pay work family . will the Minister join I in say to that lady , " promise make , promise deliver " ? that be absolutely right : promise make , promise deliver . I be so delighted that my hon . friend have be raise these issue with we and that we be now get on and deliver on they . almost one in three child in my constituency live in poverty , and I know that go to school hungry be one of the big barrier to thrive not only in childhood but into adulthood , so I welcome the statement . will the Minister confirm that this measure , along with free breakfast club and cut the cost of school uniform , will not only benefit family finance but improve school attainment , behaviour and learn outcome ? my hon . friend be right to raise the benefit that this measure will bring on attendance , attainment and behaviour . I know that she be a real champion on these issue and that she will be really excited about ensure that this happen across her constituency as quickly as possible . in Colchester , this measure will benefit over 5 , 000 child , so it be wonderful news from a Government who be indeed determined to tackle child poverty . would the Minister like to make a return visit to Colchester , this time to visit not a pioneer pre - school but a pioneer primary school — unity primary academy in Greenstead — which have just open a community kitchen that create an amazing food culture for local family ? as the Minister be on a tour , I assume that he will be come to Sussex Weald shortly . I be not sure whether my office will be happy about that , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be sure we can make it happen . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I also want to pay tribute to school support staff and teacher who do so much to ensure that child across our country can achieve and thrive . they will know that this Labour Government have their back . in one fell swoop , this measure will take 100 , 000 child out of poverty . in my constituency , 2 , 500 child will benefit . fight poverty be in the Labour party ' s DNA , but with over 4 . 5 million child leave in poverty by the Conservative party , which have not turn up for the statement , will the Minister please assure I that we will not stop there and that there will be meaningful change through the child poverty strategy this autumn ? I assure my hon . friend that we will publish an ambitious child poverty strategy later this year to ensure that we deliver fully fund measure that make a big difference to child ' s life . this announcement to extend free school meal will be hugely welcome news to the family of the 4 , 300 child in Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich that be in receipt of universal credit . there be a wealth of evidence that good nutrition at school have a significant impact on educational attainment , health and wellbeing and long - term earning potential . if we be serious about bear down on the rise level of child poverty , which be now just short of 30 % in my constituency , that start with measure such as this , which I be sure will be the first of many . do the Minister agree that this change in eligibility present an opportunity at a national level to improve datum sharing with local authority so that we can finally facilitate auto - enrolment and ensure that the maximum number of family benefit from this policy ? my hon . friend be right to raise the difference that a Labour Government make and the scar of child poverty on our society . I assure he that we be work across the Department to deliver what he describe . this change will make a difference to the life of thousand of child in my Gateshead constituency , and may I say it would have be hugely welcome by my grandmother who be a Gateshead dinner lady ? do the Minister agree that through 30 hour of free childcare , a limit on the number of brand school item , free breakfast club and lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty , Labour be the party for child and family ? we say that we would be a child - centre Government , and that be what we be deliver . the announcement be testament to that . I whole - heartedly thank the Minister for this much - need announcement . up to 5 , 600 child in my constituency will no doubt be grateful for the relief it bring to their family in ease the financial pressure that many face . will the Minister confirm that this be just the first step in a wide strategy to tackle child poverty and that area like Leigh and Atherton will be central to that effort ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I know that one reason she be in the House be to tackle deprivation and poverty across the country and in her own constituency . I assure she that we be determined to break down barrier to opportunity and to start to bring down child poverty level in our society . as the proud son of a dinner lady , I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement . I also pay tribute to the Minister for Employment at his side , who be a tribune in the Government and the House against child poverty . with nearly one in two child in my constituency in poverty — a stain leave by the last government — this will be a welcome policy . up to 16 , 000 pupil will be eligible for free school meal across Peterborough because of this policy , but that be just the start . what more can the Minister do to keep a razor - sharp focus on drive down poverty and drive up opportunity for young people in my city ? this , of course , be the late step in our plan for change to put extra pound in parent ' pocket . it be a down payment on the child poverty strategy , as I mention early , build on our expansion of free breakfast club , our national minimum wage boost and our cap on universal credit deduction through the fair repayment rate . those be real measure that will make a real difference to people ' s life . I welcome wholeheartedly the announcement , not least because it mean that almost 4 , 000 child in my constituency will benefit from free , healthy school meal , save parent almost £ 500 a year . that be in addition to the breakfast club , of which we have two on the early adopter scheme . do the Minister agree that as grateful as we be to wonderful people include the bean man , who can often be see in Willington , Repton and surround area collect food for food bank , this be a step towards lift people out of poverty so that we will no long need food bank ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . I know that she will want to feed into the child poverty strategy to ensure that it be ambitious , but I assure she that that be our intention . I see that two Joshes remain . today , I be think of the teacher from my constituency who tell I that they have to keep cereal bar in their office for child who come to school hungry . that be the legacy of the conservative party , and I be not surprised that Conservative Members have not turn up to face the music . research show that people live with mental health condition be twice as likely to be live in food - insecure household . do the Minister agree that this announcement will make a huge change to our young people ' s mental health , and that that be exactly what people vote for when they vote Labour ? my hon . friend be right to set out that mental health can be a barrier to every child have the opportunity to succeed and thrive . he will know that we be invest in mental health support team in every school across the country as well as recruit 8 , 500 mental health professional and introduce young future hub in community . I know that he will welcome those wide plan for our country and will ensure that they be roll out effectively in his constituency . I welcome the announcement , which will help more than 4 , 000 working - class child in my community . the Minister rightly emphasise that the expansion of free school meal be both pro - learn and anti - poverty , and we know that the appalling cost of living crisis , which the previous Government leave behind , mean that so many child be come into school hungry and not in the good position to learn . will he set out what else the Government be do to tackle the poverty that be hold back so many child ? my hon . friend will know that we be already commit to roll out breakfast club in every primary school . we want to ensure that there be more money in parent ' pocket through our childcare entitlement roll - out . more broadly , the child poverty strategy will be ambitious on improve outcome and life chance for every young person . I be personally delighted and look forward to host the Minister in my constituency . Criminal Cases Review Commission : Leadership Justice Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Justice Committee . Andy Slaughter will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of the statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question and not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in the questioning . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this statement . I rise to make a statement on the third report of the Justice Committee , which be title " Leadership of the Criminal Cases Review Commission " . I first want to place on the record my thank to the Committee secretariat for their work in prepare the report and to the member of the Committee . even though I thank all my colleague , I will particularly mention the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) for her thorough questioning of witness at our evidence session . the Criminal Cases Review Commission be an independent body with statutory responsibility for investigate allege miscarriage of justice in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . it have the power to refer a case back to an appeal court if it consider that there be a real possibility that the court will quash the conviction or reduce the sentence in that case . the ccrc be a hugely important organisation , and it be essential to the proper functioning of the criminal justice system that it work effectively . our report find that that be not currently the case . on 14 January 2025 , the chair of the ccrc , Helen Pitcher , resign follow the decision of an independent panel convene by the Lord Chancellor , which conclude by a majority that she should no long head the organisation . the panel find that the chair have fail to restore confidence in the ccrc in the aftermath of Andrew Malkinson ' s acquittal by the Court of Appeal in July 2023 . the panel also find that she have not sufficiently challenge the performance of the chief executive of the ccrc , Karen Kneller . on 29 April 2025 , the Committee hold an evidence session with Karen Kneller and Amanda Pearce , casework operation director at the ccrc . both be very long - serve senior manager . the Committee ask the witness about Chris Henley KC ' s independent review of their handling of the Andrew Malkinson case , their leadership of the ccrc and the ccrc ' s remote working policy . before and after the session on 29 April , the Committee receive a significant amount of information from individual who have work with and for the ccrc , from casework manager to commissioner . the evidence present to the Committee indicate that , in an echo of Mr Malkinson ' s own word , a root - and - branch review of how the ccrc operate be urgently need . we intend our finding to inform that work . since our report be publish on 23 May , Dame Vera Baird KC have be appoint as interim chair of the ccrc . I welcome the appointment of such an experienced and respected figure who have the skill and robustness to reform an organisation that have lose its way so fundamentally . I also welcome that , at the Committee ' s request , the chair of the ccrc have be add to the list of role for which the Justice Committee conduct pre - appointment scrutiny . the case of Andrew Malkinson , who be imprison for almost 20 year for a crime he do not commit , and Peter Sullivan , who spend 38 year in prison for a crime he do not commit , underline the importance of the ccrc ' s role . both Mr Malkinson and Mr Sullivan make application to the ccrc , which be reject . the failing in the Malkinson case have be make abundantly clear by Chris Henley KC ' s review . our report do not rehearse the fact of that case ; rather , it address the way the ccrc conduct itself in response . I want to highlight two key point in relation to the Henley report : the insufficiency of the ccrc ' s apology to Mr Malkinson and the delay in the publication of the report . it should not have take an independent review for the ccrc to apologise to Andrew Malkinson . the public statement of the then chair , Helen Pitcher , after Andrew Malkinson ' s acquittal be woefully inadequate and show a worrying lack of understanding of the potential damage to the ccrc ' s reputation and public confidence that would almost inevitably arise from a failure to admit its mistake and apologise . by fail to offer a timely apology , the leadership of the ccrc cause significant damage to the organisation ' s reputation . the ccrc ' s statement give the impression that the organisation and its leadership be more concerned with defend their own reputation than offer an honest assessment of how they have fail Andrew Malkinson . the Committee be unpersuade by the justification give by Karen Kneller for the delay in the publication of the Henley report . the report be provide to the ccrc in January 2024 , but not publish until July 2024 . among the reason for the delay in publication give to we by Ms Kneller on 29 April be that the report be a draft that contain typographical error that need correct . in an exchange of letter with the Committee , Chris Henley KC tell we that his report have not contain typographical error , but that the ccrc have instead ask he to make substantive change to its wording , and he provide we with evidence of that . we also find it be inappropriate for the ccrc to suggest to Chris Henley KC that his report should not draw broad conclusion on the ccrc as an organisation base on his analysis of their handling of Andrew Malkinson ' s case . the ccrc ' s leadership should have accept the gravity of the failing in the handling of the case and their wide implication . we be far unpersuade by Karen Kneller and Amanda Pearce ' s explanation that publication of the Henley report be not possible because of the proximity of the general election . when Karen Kneller and Amanda Pearce appear before we on 29 April , we provide they with an opportunity to respond to public criticism of the leadership ' s recent performance . the answer provide to the Committee do not inspire confidence ; on the contrary , the partial nature of their answer lead Chris Henley KC and Chris Webb — a crisis communication consultant employ by the ccrc to advise on the Henley report and the response to it — to write to we to correct point make by Karen Kneller on 29 April . both Chris Henley and Chris Webb make allegation that Ms Kneller have mislead the Committee . in the spirit of fairness , the Committee offer Karen Kneller the opportunity to respond directly in write to those allegation and incorporate her response into our report . the allegation make by Chris Henley and Chris Webb serve to reinforce the sense that the leadership of the ccrc have continually fail to learn from its mistake and confront its failing with the seriousness require . as a result of our concern regard the performance of the ccrc and the unpersuasive evidence Karen Kneller provide to the Committee , the Committee conclude it be no long tenable for she to continue as chief executive of the ccrc . the conclusion the Committee reach be far broad than just those relate to the chief executive and to the organisation as a whole . commissioner form the body corporate of the organisation and make the key decision with regard to the ccrc ' s work , and we be alarmed that the ccrc have operate without a full quota of commissioner since 2023 . we be also disappointed that the term of commissioner recruitment only require commissioner to work 52 day per year . the responsibility for the lack of commissioner recruitment in recent year be an issue for both the Ministry of Justice and the ccrc . we make recommendation that the incoming interim chair ' s review of the organisation should consider whether the term of appointment for commissioner , the corporate structure of the CCRC and the commission ' s relationship with the MOJ be currently appropriate to ensure that the ccrc have the resource it need to operate effectively . I understand that the term of reference of that review will be publish shortly . during the pandemic , the ccrc move to remote - first as a means of operation , which it have retain . that be out of step with the rest of the public sector and seem unsuited to the nature of the commission ' s work . we be particularly shocked that both Ms Kneller and Ms Pearce , the senior leadership of the organisation , only attend the office once or twice every few month . we recommend that senior leadership should have a regular presence in the office , particularly in the light of recent event and the high - profile criticism direct at the commission . exclusively remote working be not suit to a body that rely on investigation and challenge to correct miscarriage of justice . the ccrc be a hugely important organisation and the senior leadership could have do much more in their evidence to reassure we that they understand the seriousness of the criticism it have face , and the need for an overhaul of the organisation to rebuild public trust and provide applicant to the ccrc with the justice they deserve . for an organisation that be design to identify failure within the criminal justice system , the ccrc ' s leadership have show a remarkable inability to learn from its own mistake . the new interim chair , Dame Vera Baird KC , will now conduct a review of the ccrc , and it be already clear from her public statement that she be across the scale and complexity of the task that she have be set , include the issue raise in our report . there be a real prospect of change be make at ccrc , and I be hopeful that that will lead to well outcome for those who have be victim of miscarriage of justice . I very much welcome the appointment of Dame Vera Baird . however , the culture that have build up at the ccrc around the remote - first policy seem to have lead to very lax working practice . after she have finish in the role of interim chair , what be the future for scrutinise the ccrc so that it do not fall back into that sort of lax behaviour ? I be grateful to my hon . friend because although that be a management point , it be a substantive one because the work do by caseworker within the ccrc require investigation and be sensitive , and they have to be robust and thorough in what they do . the collegiate experience that people get from work in an office together be essential to that . similar body would expend at least 60 % of their time in the office . those be the sort of criterion I would expect to be address in Dame Vera Baird ' s review so we can go forward with an organisation that be fit for purpose . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his presentation . in his introduction , he refer to the input from Northern Ireland . do that involve the policing and justice Minister and all the major political party to ensure that we have a collective point of view on the delivery of the recommendation ? I be grateful , as always , to the hon . gentleman for his question . all I can say today be that the ccrc cover Northern Ireland and that any recommendation that come from Dame Vera Baird ' s review must also affect the other jurisdiction in which the ccrc have a role . clearly , most of the point that we deal with in what be a relatively short inquiry relate to England and Wales , but I will ensure that Northern Ireland be not forget go forward . I welcome the statement from the Chair of the Select Committee and the appointment of Dame Vera Baird as the interim chair . do my hon . friend share a certain incredulity that the Ministry of Justice take three year to resolve the fee that would be pay to commissioner , and that the recruitment exercise appear to be take 18 month to resolve ? what be go on there ? do he believe that the term of appointment for commissioner should be review to ensure that they can play a great role in the day - to - day run of the ccrc ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I see that the Minister , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , be in her place and she be no doubt listen , because there be some quite trenchant criticism of the Ministry of Justice , as well as of the ccrc itself , in the report — in particular , the feeling that both organisation have take their eye off the ball on overall governance . when the ccrc be set up , commissioner be in full - time , salary position and have a substantial role in the running of the organisation . they now work remotely part time and on a fee - pay basis . my hon . Friend praise Dame Vera Baird , and I would like to add that this be a difficult job , which may be why the review be take so long and why it take so long to appoint she . the role need someone with both an eye for detail and the gravita to do it . I be confident that she have that , but to leave the organisation in a fit state , she will need to do something fundamental about its governance , and the commissioner will be central to that . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his remark . as a member of the Committee , I can attest to our dismay at what we hear in those hearing . I ask the Chair to encourage Dame Vera Baird to take a robust approach to her review of the leadership of such an important public body . I thank my hon . friend , who be an assiduous and very qualified member of the Committee , and often put I to shame in relation to my knowledge of matter . anybody who listen to Dame Vera ' s interview on the " Today " programme this week , in which she address several time the report and these finding , as well as three other report that there have be over the past 10 year , will be under no illusion about whether she understand the scale of the task she face and have the skill to tackle it . govern the Marine Environment Environmental Audit Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the second Select Committee statement on behalf of the Environmental Audit Committee . Mr Toby Perkins will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question and not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not the relevant Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be pleased to present to the House the Environmental Audit Committee ' s report on " govern the marine environment " . ahead of World Ocean Day and the United Nations ocean conference next week , there be an opportunity for the Government to send a clear signal that the UK be serious about protect our marine environment . that be why the Committee work hard to publish our report in a timely manner to advance that effort . I be grateful to all member of the Committee for their contribution . this be the first inquiry that have be initiate and complete by this Committee , and it have be a pleasure to conduct the inquiry together . I wish to record my , and the whole Committee ' s , huge gratitude to the staff of the Environmental Audit Committee , in particular Dr Misha Patel , who work tirelessly and swiftly to produce the report . the Committee initiate the inquiry due to the critical importance of , and risk to , our marine environment . ocean regulate the Earth ' s temperature , absorb carbon dioxide , produce oxygen , support biodiversity , underpin diverse industry and offer significant cultural , heritage and recreational value . at the same time , they be under immense pressure from a variety of activity , and those activity be govern by a complex and fragmented regime of regulation and policy . the Committee hear that this lack of join - up governance and effective stakeholder engagement risk the unsustainable management and potential depletion of critical marine resource . in fact , UK water be already fail assessment of their environmental health , lead the Office for Environmental Protection to investigate a suspect failure by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to take the necessary measure to achieve " good environmental status " of marine water . it be a great pleasure and honour for many member of Parliament to watch the film " Ocean " in the company of Sir David Attenborough yesterday . we hear the Prime Minister , in his warm embrace of Sir David , assert that his Government would take nature seriously , echo the importance of action on ocean ahead of next week ' s conference . the Committee be in excited anticipation of the announcement that the Government will make ahead of next week ' s conference . turn to the report ' s finding in more detail , I wish to highlight four topic on which the Committee hear detailed evidence and have make recommendation to the Government . the first be on bottom trawling . while marine protect area cover nearly 900 , 000 square kilometre of english water , activity that harm marine life be still allow in lot of those area . the film " Ocean " I refer to clearly show the devastation of the seabed cause by bottom trawling . extractive and damaging practice undermine the very objective that MPAs be establish to address . while the Government have indicate that they be committed to not have bottom trawl in area that damage mpa , they have not yet set out a timeline for implement the change . every day we wait , further damage be do to the seabed and crucial ocean ecosystem . the Committee conclude that damaging practice , such as bottom trawling , dredging and mining aggregate , should be ban in offshore protect area . beyond protect area at sea , the Committee hear that the overarch vision for how our ocean be use and manage be outdate and do not reflect the current or evolve pressure on the marine environment . the current marine policy statement publish in 2011 , for example , seek to maximise the production of oil and gas . that be clearly not the current Government ' s policy , but it be accord to the MPS . the Committee recommend that the Government bring forward a long overdue review of the marine policy statement to update it to ensure that it reflect current government policy and set out how decision will be make to balance marine exploitation and marine protection . on marine spatial planning , the Committee hear that the marine spatial prioritisation programme should be key in guide marine governance and spatial planning of activity at sea , such as protect area , renewable development and fishing . however , it remain unclear what outcome be expect and what have be deliver by the programme to date . we urge the Government to clarify the scope , objective and output of the marine spatial prioritisation programme to ensure that it effectively implement the Government ' s vision for the sustainable use of the marine environment . change in marine spatial planning will have real impact on those who rely on the sea for their livelihood . the Government must ensure that traditional marine sector be support through these change to retain their expertise and support sustainable practice . finally , the Committee hear that despite sign the UN high seas treaty in September 2023 , the UK have so far fail to ratify it . this crucial treaty would protect marine life in the high sea by establish protect area in international water . until the treaty be ratify by 60 nation , it will not come into force . we urge the Government to set a clear timeline for introduce the require legislation for ratify the treaty before September 2025 , which will mark two year since the UK sign it . this would send a clear signal that global marine protection be a priority for the Government , and it would take the UK and the world one step close to real protection for marine life in the high sea . in our hearing , Ministers confirm that it remain government policy to ratify the treaty but explain that not enough time have be find in the parliamentary schedule for legislation . it be crucial , both for the UK ' s contribution and for the treaty to come into force , that it be ratify . we call on the Government to bring that forward now . while the urgency of the situation for the marine environment be clear , there be an opportunity to turn thing around . the evidence be indisputable , and the Government have a number of policy tool and option at their disposal . it be time to act to protect the marine environment . ahead of the UN ocean conference next week , I look forward to hear from the Minister the Government ' s plan to safeguard our ocean for the future . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his statement , and I congratulate the Environmental Audit Committee for its excellent and thoughtful report on govern the marine environment . a key component in that be marine conservation and protection , include the myriad specie live in that environment , such as cetacean . there be no humane way to kill a whale , and sadly the barbaric practice of hunting and kill whale and dolphin still continue . do the Chair of the Select Committee agree that the United Kingdom can play a pivotal role in end this practice with its global soft power , and in treaty negotiation , trade deal and fishery negotiation , by put pressure on country like Japan , Norway , Iceland and the Faroe Islands to stop this horrific practice in our sea and ocean once and for all ? the shadow Minister make an important point . I know that the previous Government wrestle with this , and the current Government will too . it be not feature in our report , but I know my front - Bench colleague will listen and take it seriously . I thank he for raise that point . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his statement . it have be a privilege to be involve in the Committee ' s work on this report . do he agree that next week ' s UN ocean conference offer the Government a unique opportunity to take a global lead on ban destructive practice such as bottom trawling in marine protect area , as our report recommend ? I thank my hon . Friend and Committee colleague for her contribution . I absolutely agree . the warm word we hear from the Prime Minister yesterday be incredibly encouraging , but we need to see they back up with real action . I look forward to hear what the Government have to say at the conference . it be important that we negotiate strongly overseas , but we must also get our own act in order in this country . it would be a valuable signal ahead of the ocean conference if the Government commit to what we sign up to in opposition , and in our manifesto , and ban bottom trawling in marine protect area . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his statement . it be a privilege to serve on the Environmental Audit Committee . while the UK Government have commit to not allow any new oil and gas licence — I would like to see they go far — the marine spatial plan still say that we should maximise production of oil and gas . be that not outrageously out of date , and be it not urgent that the Government update the strategy so that we have join - up policy to tackle the climate crisis ? I absolutely agree . we know that that be not the Government ' s policy , but accord to the MPS it be . that demonstrate the urgency of update the plan , which go back to 2011 . it be update after Brexit , but it clearly bear no relationship to the Government ' s current policy . we expect those who use the sea in different way to listen to the plan , so it be important that the plan reflect current policy . that be an important recommendation we make in our report , and I entirely agree with the hon . Lady . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for how he have conduct this inquiry and present the report to the House . I also thank the Clerks and official who prepare the report under considerable stress — we be very grateful for their work . I ask my hon . friend to reflect far on the situation with the BBNJ treaty . I speak this morning to the Journal Office , the House of Commons Library specialist and the Clerk of the House , and it have become clear that the BBNJ treaty be in fact lay on the table of the House on 16 October 2023 , and its 21 - day sitting period have therefore long since pass without objection . it appear that the Government be mislead themselves by say that they have to pass the implement primary legislation before they can ratify it and table the instrument of ratification at the United Nations ocean conference next week . do my hon . friend agree that , give that ratification by 60 state be vital — we be two short at the moment , as I understand it — it be important that there be no statutory objection to our table the instrument next week , and that we should get on and do it ? I certainly think we should get on and do it . my hon . friend raise an important point about whether primary legislation be need . it be clear that the Government believe it be , and the evidence our Committee hear be that the Government be try to find time for that . my hon . friend make an innovative suggestion , and I be sure the Government will listen . I think there be agreement across the House that this be important . it be the policy of the previous Government , but it be never bring forward ; it be the policy of this Government , and it have never be bring forward . I think we would all agree that it be tremendously important for ratification to take place . I thank the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee for introduce the report and for mention bottom trawling . my understanding from speak to the fish producer ’ organisation in my constituency and across Northern Ireland be that they be commit to the vision of stop bottom trawling , and I think the feeling be the same across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . if our fisherman and fisherwoman have the vision to stop bottom trawling , what be be do to ensure that other european country have the same vision ? I thank the hon . gentleman for make that point and for his attention to these matter . the Committee look in detail at bottom trawling , and we hear from a number of expert . it be also important to say that there be a devolved element . we consider the question of whether the Government ' s plan should impose highly protect marine area on devolve jurisdiction . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we need consistency on this across the UK , and that we must insist on the same from nation across Europe and the rest of the world . David Attenborough have say that we know more about the surface of the moon than we know about the bottom of our ocean and the ecosystem that exist down there . it be disturb that Donald Trump — who else ? — have sign a directive allow deep - sea mining . can this issue be take up at next week ' s conference to try to secure co - operation on study the bottom of our ocean and understand the ecosystem before we do permanent damage that we might regret ? my hon . friend characteristically make an important point . I be sure the Minister hear and will consider it . we comment on deep - sea mining in marine protect area in our report . the film " Ocean " demonstrate how much we be already start to learn , and the vastness of our knowledge gap in this area . my hon . friend be right that we must continue to invest . the report talk about make sure that we have well datum and information , and make sure that , on a global basis , we do not allow further degradation of this crucial ecosystem . Bill present Pension Schemes Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Liz Kendall , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary John Healy , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Peter Kyle , Jim McMahon , Ellie Reeves , Georgia Gould , Al Carns and Mary Creagh present a Bill to make provision about pension scheme ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 9 June , and to be print ( Bill 255 ) , with explanatory note ( Bill 255 - en ) . Backbench Business Bank Closures and Banking Hubs I beg to move , that this House recognise the importance of banking facility to local community and express concern over the precipitous decline over the past 40 year ; note the change to banking habit through online service ; further recognise that , for vulnerable people , face - to - face banking be a vital service and a reduction of branch risk significant financial exclusion ; far note the impact of a loss of physical banking on small business through lose productivity and lose footfall ; also note the innovative nature of banking hub as a solution to a loss of high street banking , but recognise that Financial Conduct Authority rule for their recommendation be too inflexible ; and call on the Government to instigate a review into the impact on community of bank branch loss and a change to the regulation to ensure community have appropriate access to banking facility . on 26 February , I hold a debate in Westminster Hall on high street banking and bank closure . despite the fact that it be only a 30 - minute debate , it be incredibly well attend . such be the demand for a debate on the issue face almost every community and constituency that , at its conclusion , I be urge to apply for a Backbench Business debate — so here we be this afternoon . I want to put on record my thank to the Committee for grant such an important debate and to all the member across the House who co - sign my application , in particular the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who co - sponsor it . this debate , like the previous one , be timely . there have be a precipitous decline in banking provision in the UK over a period of four decade . it have be partially drive by the rapid advance in technology , which have see a huge uptake of internet banking , but we should not kid ourselves — it have also be drive by a desire from bank still rake in enormous profit to centralise and cut cost , with no regard for the community they purport to serve . community be be sacrifice at the altar of greed , at the behest of bank that no long see the service they provide as profitable , and as be so often the case , the elderly , the disabled and the poor , who either can not cope with computer or can not afford expensive broadband , be the one who have be hit the hard . moreover , the closure have far erode local economy , with few visit to the high street be make and local business have additional cost link to such practicality as make cash deposit . my hon . Friend mention the issue cause for business . there be also significant issue for charity . in my constituency , many local charity and community group receive cash donation and struggle to find a place to bank they . do he agree that this be an issue for charity , just as much as it be for local business ? that be a very valid point . my hon . friend be right : when we look at who suffer as a consequence of these decision , charity be way up there . the regulatory framework in place to protect community have find itself totally lacking , and that have be the case for some time . that be the reason for this debate . my predecessor for the old Wansbeck seat , Denis Murphy , campaign vigorously alongside local people against the closure of bank branch in both Newbiggin - by - the - Sea and Guide Post , but despite overwhelming public support , the bank close regardless . both those community have be without their own bank for more than 25 year . since 2013 , the Financial Conduct Authority have be task with regulate banking service , include branch closure . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this incredibly important debate . last month , the well - use Chiswick post office in my constituency close without notice . I meet Post Office Ltd yesterday , and it assure I that a service would be restore shortly . do he agree that this volatility and uncertainty in the market be damaging to both local community and the reputation of financial institution ? that be massively important . People be tell that they can rely on post office to replace the bank . the vast majority of post office in our community be now run by a single person and be not make a profit . they can easily just withdraw the service — it do happen , and it have happen lot of time in my career — leave the community without anything whatsoever . that be a really important point , which I will probably touch on later . in my experience of deal with branch closure in my constituency , the FCA ' s power to force the banking industry to rectify the consequential difficulty be totally and utterly inadequate . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this debate . the fact that there be so many member in the House this afternoon underline that this be a very big problem that cross party political boundary and all kind of constituency . harwich , Brightlingsea , Manningtree and other place in my constituency be lose their banking facility . the Government be spend money on try to revive Harwich high street , but neither the previous Government nor this Government have do anything to secure the banking facility that be the lifeblood of a high street . I really welcome this debate . I be not sure that post office be the answer . I think we need to make sure there be a proper bank on every high street . I do agree with that . these problem be happen across community , regardless of whether we be red , blue , green or yellow — it be happen on every high street . many of they have lose their bank — they be go — and it can not be allow to continue . under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , the FCA can require bank to consult interested party to consider the effect of closure and can ask the private sector cash machine operator Link to assess the consequence of closure and to recommend where alternative such as share banking hub facility should be create to fill the gap . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . he mention that this problem be happen in every high street across the country , and that be certainly the case in my constituency , where we have see the almost wholesale withdrawal of bank in West Norwood , Dulwich and Brixton — across the piece , they be close . where they close , the bank often say , " we ' ll make our service available in a banking hub in the local library , " for example . the service be then poorly advertise and publicise and be not particularly convenient . the bank come along a few month later and say , " we ' re close it because of a lack of demand . " do he agree that the bank be take a cynical approach and be fail to provide an adequate service to our constituent ? of course it be a cynical approach . the bank do not want to be on the high street . they do not want to be support local community — the very same community that have support the bank through the darkest of time . that be the reality , and that be why this debate be so important . we need more regulation to support people in their community . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful speech . when the last bank in town close in community such as Tenbury Wells and Pershore , it be a cumbersome process for they to qualify for a banking hub . he mention the role of the regulator . do he agree that when the last bank in town close , a banking hub ought to be provide automatically ? there be definitely room for discussion in that respect . we have get to make sure that people have financial service on the high street . it be pretty simple . link assess the consequence of bank closure , but its objective be direct by the FCA requirement , and basically , it can only assess a community base on access to cash — nothing else . no other social discussion take place ; it be just base on access to cash . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . in Eltham , our last bank have close , but because we still have a Nationwide in the town centre , the bank will not consider the option of a banking hub . that need to change . do he agree that we need a review of the criterion , so that we can have a chance of get the bank at least to co - operate in a banking hub ? they should not rely on Nationwide . I of course agree : the criterion lay down by the Government , the bank , the FCA and Link need to be utterly overhaul to represent people in our community . I will come on to some of the point that my hon . friend raise . all of we in this House share the concern that the disabled and the vulnerable be lose access not just to cash , but to service . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be high time we ask the Government to ensure that the FCA review its guideline on this ? my ask will be a bit strong than that . I might get my backside kick , but hey , it will not be the first time . I will ask the Government to insist on legislation that change the structure to what we be all cry out for . it will not cost the Government a ha ' penny to provide service to the people who actually need they . the number of bank that have leave my constituency have drive I mad : in the 336 square mile of Mid Buckinghamshire , only one high street bank be leave stand . one of the most absurd thing that I have hear multiple bank say over the year be : " oh , but there ' s a bank just a few mile away . " that might be technically true on Google Maps , but to pick somewhere close to my constituency entirely at random — I see the Economic Secretary to the Treasury in her place — in High Wycombe it take an enormous amount of time compare with how it look on Google Maps to get into the town centre and back again . if one bit of the criterion need to change , it be that bank should not be able just to say , " oh , there ' s a bank a few mile away . " they need to look at the time it take in real life to get from a village to a nearby town . it feel really strange to agree with so many conservative Members — it do not make I terribly comfortable , but it show the power of the argument and , importantly , the support that it have across the House , which be relatively rare . the number of intervention that I have take have mean that lot of the point in my speech have already be make . I will try to be as quick as possible . link do a decent job under the criterion that have be set , which really need to be change . link can pause a bank closure but can not stop one , or set its own timetable for the establishment of banking hub . moreover , there be no provision for the FCA to initiate retrospective assessment of the need for banking hub in area where bank have leave the high street , result in banking desert , many year ago , prior to the 2023 Act . the Government simply must take a fresh look at this issue and bring forward the necessary legislation to force the banking industry to fulfil its social responsibility . the customer and community from whom they have extract so much profit over the year deserve nothing less . we should not forget that these be the very same bank and financial institution that we have to bail out in 2008 - 09 because of their reckless pursuit of ever - increase profit . they then make fortune through the quantitative easing that the Bank of England initiate to save the economy after the crash that they cause . they be now abandon the very taxpayer who bail they out . as I mention , there have be a dramatic reduction in the number of bank on our high street . in 1986 there be 21 , 643 bank and build society branch in the UK ; by 2024 , around 6 , 800 be leave . clearly , the switch to online banking have have an impact , but even those of we who use online banking sometimes need the certainty that a branch offer . the House of Lords April 2025 report " closure of bank branch : impact on rural community " quote Sarah Coles , a senior personal finance analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown : " the closure of bank branch be a vicious circle . the more that close , the more people move online , so there be few people rely on high street branch , so more of they close . the pandemic pick up the pace around this ever - decrease circle , close more branch temporarily and cause online banking to spike . " the bank say that few people be use branch . if a high street branch close , people can not use it , as it be not there any more . do that not result in an automatic reduction in usage ? this be not rocket science . it be a vicious circle , which be why we need change from the Government . northumberland , my home county , have lose more than half of its bank branch since 2015 . in my constituency of Blyth and Ashington , the large village have be leave without high street bank for more than a quarter of a decade . Blyth , Northumberland ' s large town , will be leave without a high street bank in a few month ' time , though a building society will remain — the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) . the hon . Member have be very generous . he mention build society , and the Nationwide problem be mention . in Harpenden , the hard work of local campaigner have manage to secure a banking hub , despite our have a Nationwide . do he agree that local community need access to a full range of banking service that build society do not provide , and will he join I in thank Harpenden town council and especially Derek French , who have campaign on this issue locally and nationally ? perhaps this could be an example that could help other town to find out how they could get a banking hub despite have a Nationwide . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention ; I will cover some of those point . I mention Blyth , the big town in my constituency . the third large town in Northumberland , Bedlington , see its last branch close just last month . from August in my constituency , only Ashington , the county ' s third large town , will have a high street bank , but many will wonder how long that will last . who be affect by these bank closure ? like any change of this nature , be it not the most vulnerable who find it the most difficult ? the FCA ' s research in 2019 set out how problematic the requirement to travel big distance for banking service be for old people , and provide evidence for the slow uptake of online banking service by old people . only last week , my office be contact by an elderly gentleman from Guide Post . his local bank close in 2000 . he move to the branch in Bedlington , a few mile away , where he stay for nigh on 25 year before that close . then he move to the one in Blyth , a few mile far away ; that branch be now to be close , as I mention early . he be unable to access internet banking , he do not have any family , and he be unable to travel any further distance , whether by use basic transport service or otherwise . as other have say , the hon . Member have be very generous . his speech be make I think about vulnerable customer , and access to responsible credit for they . just a couple of week ago , the all - party parliamentary group on fair banking have a roundtable . actually , online banking service do not help those really vulnerable people , where there be a sense of shame in potentially need small amount of help and support . do he agree that that be something else that we , and the Government , need to consider ? I fully agree with the hon . Lady ' s intervention . it be up to we , in this place , to speak up for those vulnerable people . we know that the bank profit and make saving from branch closure . in January 2020 , a House of Commons Library briefing point to the major bank enjoy a 6 % decrease in overhead cost through branch closure . in 2024 , HSBC report the high net profit among the large UK bank , reach just under £ 20 billion ; Barclays follow , with around £ 6 . 36 billion ; and NatWest ' s net profit be approximately £ 4 . 8 billion . the big four UK bank — Barclays , NatWest , Lloyds and HSBC — be estimate to have make a combine £ 44 . 7 billion in profit . they be not hard up , you know — they really be not hard up . that be why it be important that we , as elect representative , press that point home to Government . the FCA ' s current power around bank closure have be mention two or three time already , and they go to the heart of the issue . unfortunately , the bank be a law unto themselves . the FCA have no statutory power to prevent bank closure . it can only seek to influence such decision through its guidance note . on branch closure , the FCA guidance require bank to assess how closure will affect customer , especially those with vulnerability , use datum on usage trend ; consider alternative solution to customer ' need , such as free atm , post office and banking hub ; and ensure that customer be give clear information and that they be not mislead . although the FCA can not stop closure , it can require pause in branch closure if it be not satisfied that the important matter that I have just mention have be consider adequately . give everything we be talk about , I think that approach fail . legislative change be need to ensure there be much more flexibility in that guidance . link be a not - for - profit company that be charge with make access to cash available , largely through atm . it can charge for use its atm and be allow to charge more in rural area . prior to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , the major bank run a voluntary assessment scheme use Link to carry out research into the effect of plan branch closure . the Act make the Link assessment mandatory but do not significantly widen their scope . the Link assessment analyse the impact of branch closure in term of access to cash , and outline exist and recommend new alternative , such as banking hub . in Blyth , which be Northumberland ' s large town , the bank run out of cash over a bank holiday weekend not many week ago . blyth — it be a massive place — do not have any cash . can you imagine that ? it do not have any cash whatsoever simply because the cash machine run out and the Morrisons supermarket cash machine be inside the closed store . an hon . Member raise the point about have different cash machine in different place , but if people rely on a supermarket for access to cash , perhaps as a last resort , and it close at 7 pm or 8 pm , then they do not have any access to cash . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this important debate . to expand on his comment about supermarket , in Wetherby in my constituency , Morrisons have the only cashpoint and they be outside , but they have run out of cash by Saturday lunch time that sound like the same sort of situation as the one we have in Blyth . there be cash machine outside and inside , but the cash machine outside run out of cash . there be people knock on the shop window ask the people who be fill the shelf to get some money for they from the cash machine inside — how ludicrous be that ? how ridiculous ! I welcome the point that the hon . Gentleman be raise . there be also an issue with cash machine inside shop that may be open for long , but they be stock from the shop by the cash receive in the premise . there can be cash machine in a shop that have no cash in they , but Link have to take they into account when assess whether there should be a free - to - use cash machine in a community . I totally agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . I like bring school kid into Parliament . down in one of the corridor there be an ATM that say " free cash " , and I tell all the kid , " that ' s what you get if you be an MP — you can get as much cash as you want from here — it ' s free , it ' s free ! " [ Laughter . ] and they all ask I if I can get they some cash before they go to their mam . free cash ? there be atm where people have to pay a huge percentage to get their own money . that be an issue that I will cover very shortly . my own experience of deal with Link see I almost guarantee that a banking hub would be deliver in Bedlington just before the election , but on receive the assessment , no such facility be propose and instead worry local be ask to travel to nearby Cramlington to conduct their financial affair . that be not acceptable . it be correct to say that banking hub be an innovative solution for high street leave without banking facility , but Link ' s briefing note on banking hub publish on 2 June 2025 say : " banking hub be share service that enable customer of any of the major high street bank to access basic banking service and advice from community banker . Hubs be deliver by a bank - own company call Cash Access UK , and be currently operate by the Post Office . " the Government have state that they expect 350 banking hub to be open by the end of this Parliament . we be well on - track to surpass that figure . Link have already identify a need for 226 banking hub across the UK , and a similar number of other cash service , such as new deposit service . over 150 banking hub be already operational . there be no doubt that that be progress , but we need far more to provide the service that our constituent deserve . the figure of 350 banking hub might sound impressive , but there be 650 constituency represent in Parliament . in my constituency alone , banking hub should be at the heart of the high street in Ashington , Bedlington , Blyth , Guidepost and Newbiggin - by - the - Sea , but at the current rate , we will need 10 time the amount be talk about by the end of this Parliament . our high street have be hollow out by online and out - of - town shopping . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . in West Ealing , in my constituency , we have see all the bank close over the past decade or so . in fact , the town centre itself have visibly decline , in the way that he allude to . do he agree that the Labour Government ' s decision to permanently reduce business rate for retail and hospitality business and to end the scourge of late payment , along with the 350 banking hub that he mention , will help revitalise place like West Ealing ? I agree that that will help to revitalise high street , but the debate this afternoon be about how we assist the people in our community , mainly the least well off , the disabled and the elderly who simply want a bank to use . as I mention , our high street have be hollow out , but we can share some community pride — or indeed some community shame — on this issue . we can start a move towards the former by move much - need service , like banking hub , into the heart of the community that we all represent . to do so , we need proper regulation of the bank . it should be abundantly clear to anyone who have pay any attention that the bank can not be allow to police themselves . the FCA need proper tooth and the Financial Services and Marketing Act 2023 should be amend to ensure essential face - to - face service be protect alongside access to cash . during the debate on Lords Amendments to the Financial Services and Markets Bill , before it be enact , the then shadow Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) , say : " I be disappointed that the amendment will do nothing to protect essential face - to - face service . analysis publish by consumer group which ? find that over half of the UK ' s bank and building society branch have close since January 2015 — a shocking rate of about 54 closure each month — which risk exclude million of people who rely on in - person service for help with open new account , apply for loan , make or receive payment , and standing order . " — [ Official Report , 26 June 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 71 . ] the Labour party be proudly in power , and I be sure that we will address these issue . we be now in government , and it be time to take action . we need to curb the power of the big bank once and for all . we need to start a review into the impact on community that be lose bank branch . we need to change legislation to ensure that community factor and face - to - face service be consider when a closure be announce . we need to be bold with proposal for banking hub by direct the funding , which should come from the bank themselves , to create thousand of hub up and down the UK . it be firmly in the remit of the Government to do just that , and I urge my hon . friend the Minister to take the cross - party support that we have see already today and consider the step to deliver justice to our community . rise — order . we have shy of 30 member hope to contribute , so we will have a hard speak limit of four minute to begin with . I thank the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for his persistence , for secure this debate and for the work he have do and be do to get bank back on the high street . perhaps we should be grateful to the banker , because , by their action , they be the only group of people less popular than politician . unfortunately , in their endeavour to become the most unpopular people in the country , they be do huge damage to our local community . to put that in context , since 2010 more than 10 , 000 bank have close across the country , and there be now only 3 , 000 bank branch leave open in this country . in fact , we have more chance of find a Labour voter on a farm than we have of see a bank in a rural community . the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington rightly point out that the loss of banking facility have leave vulnerable group , such as the elderly and the disabled , particularly affect and financially exclude . so too be resident in rural area , where internet access be poor and unreliable . People struggle to get on to the internet to do transaction or for any customer assistance , yet bank continue to withdraw physical service from their customer . when we walk down most high street , we see that bank have become caf é s , bar and pub . I will focus my attention on Tatton and my local high street , because the scale of the closure there be stark . in Knutsford , we have lose Santander , Barclays , NatWest , Lloyds and HSBC since 2018 , and only Nationwide building society remain . Knutsford be a prosperous town with more than 1 , 000 business operate locally ; there be high demand for banking service , yet they have close their door . in Wilmslow , the Royal Bank of Scotland and TSB have close , with only Halifax and NatWest remain , which be also go to close . that mean that only Santander and Nationwide will remain . in Alderley Edge and Handforth , there be no branch at all , force resident to travel long distance . like the constituency of member across the House , Epping Forest have see a series of bank closure over the year . tragically , Lloyds bank have say that later this year it will close its branch in Debden in my constituency . like the bank in my right hon . friend ' s community , that branch be a lifeline ; many people rely on it for face - to - face banking and will struggle to get to other branch . do she agree that bank such as Lloyds need to rethink and stop those closure , and that the Government and Link need to step in and support high street banking ? I agree — the lack of bank be a disgrace . where do people go for their banking need ? the reality be that the bank that be close have enter into an agreement with business and individual ; when they open their bank account , they open it with the bank on the high street . the business be there because it expect a certain amount of customer service — that be why they go there in the first place . face - to - face banking offer confidence , security and efficiency , especially for business hand over cash and make significant financial decision . without those service , it just will not work . in 2022 , the Federation of Small Businesses find that four in 10 small business still rely on cash as a primary payment , and six in 10 need to make regular cash deposit . I regularly hear from business in Tatton that they simply can not deposit cash or access the basic service need . why ? well , that be because 64 % of bank branch have close in the last decade and 65 % of cashpoint have go . that be reduce the ability of business to deposit cash in the local area . the shift to online pose risk from technical failure and cyber - attack . we have hear that through this monopoly and lack of access , there be a squeeze , and commission be be charge for the transaction of these business . our high street be at the heart of our community , but without access to banking service , our high street , which be already under pressure , have become even hard place to trade , grow and thrive . if we be serious about support small business and see investment on our local high street and in our town centre , we must stop the decline in banking infrastructure . some may argue that closure would be reasonable if bank be lose money and need to take cost - cut measure , but that be simply not the case . bank be not struggle institution . last year , HSBC report nearly $ 25 billion in post - tax profit . barclay make $ 6 . 4 billion . Lloyds make $ 4 . 5 billion . NatWest make $ 4 . 8 billion . those be all eye - water profit — order . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this important debate . too often , I feel the issue that significantly affect the day - to - day life of our constituent be push aside in favour of large , headline - grab national concern , but this topic of access to banking service — more specifically , access to cash — deserve far great attention than it receive . while colleague here will be familiar with my no . 1 concern on the Isle of Wight — ferry connectivity — another issue come up repeatedly during the ' 24 general election : high street bank closure . what strike I most be just how deeply that issue resonate with people . many of the resident I have speak with feel very abandon by the institution they once trust with their life saving . they be expect to navigate an increasingly digital world , often without the necessary tool , skill or support . the result be a grow sense of exclusion and frustration , which be why the need for reliable , in - person banking service be not just important , but urgent . that be why I be pleased to report a positive development follow a meeting with Link last month : a banking hub have open in East Cowes , with plan for a permanent hub in West Cowes . while I do not claim that that hub alone solve the broad issue of financial inclusion on the island , it be a welcome and tangible step in the right direction . however , we can not ignore this trend and the anxiety that it cause our constituent . across the country , rural and coastal community be see their bank branch vanish from the high street . in many case , resident must travel mile , sometimes without reliable transport , just to deposit a cheque . [ interruption . ] sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be get overexcite . accord to the Financial Conduct Authority , around 1 . 1 million adult in the UK be unbanked . that be 1 . 1 million people without access to basic banking facility — something that many of we take entirely for grant . additionally , one in 10 adult have no cash saving whatsoever . those figure should concern we all . I worry especially for the old member of our community . a 2023 report from Age UK find that three in four accountholder age 65 and over would prefer to carry out at least one banking transaction at a branch . those be not people resist change for the sake of it : they be individual who genuinely rely on physical , face - to - face interaction for their financial wellbeing . they be disproportionately concentrate in rural constituency such as mine , where the proportion of resident over the age of 65 be nearly 10 % high than the national average . it be imperative that we do not leave those individual behind . this be not simply about preserve social interaction for its own sake : we be talk about people ' s livelihood — their saving , pension and financial security . it be entirely reasonable for individual to want the reassurance of speak to a real person , face to face , when manage something as vital as their money . that be where banking hub come in . these share facility provide a practical , community - focus solution . they combine the service of multiple bank in a single accessible location , support by the post office network . they be staff by real people who can help with deposit , withdrawal , and even financial guidance . banking hub be not just a stopgap ; they be a forward - thinking solution that help we bridge the digital divide , support more small business and charity that still rely heavily on cash , and maintain community cohesion in town and village that increasingly feel cut off . all of this have reinforce my belief that banking hub be not just a temporary fix ; they could very well be a long - term solution , restore vital financial service in the area where they be need most . let we ensure that no community — whether rural , coastal or urban — be deny access to the essential service its people need to live with financial freedom . I thank Link and Cash Access UK for their work . I be most grateful to the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for bring this debate on banking before the House . I think bank closure affect every single constituency and every single person in the country , as we will hear throughout this debate . the final two bank in the town of Wetherby close literally last month , but we be lucky , in the sense that we know those closure be come . I be work with the bank to get a banking hub in for a couple of year , and it have be in place in the town hall . this have give a huge advantage to the town of Wetherby , because the bank that have close in the past be now represent again in that banking hub . now that those last two branch have close , the hub be go to take up residence in one of those ex - bank . that go to show that if we can get a banking hub , we have the ability to bring thing back to the community . the bank that have close will have a representative in there on different day of the week , and as the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington point out , it be vital that people be able to have that face - to - face interaction . however , in other town in my constituency — such as Boroughbridge and Tadcaster , which have a huge number of business — there be no banking , and there be no banking hub . the resident of those town have be tell that they be close enough to go to other area , but as have be point out , that be not always the easy thing to do . then we come to Easingwold , at the further end of my constituency . nationwide , with its policy of not shut bank , still have its branch open , so Easingwold do not qualify for a banking hub . People be tell that they have to go to Thirsk , a major town that be not easy to get to . as the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington outline , there be a problem with the excuse that not enough people be use branch and therefore the bank shut they down . when branch have be shut down in the past and I ask the bank , " can you please reconsider this ? " , they say , " well , we only have a few people come in last week — we can not keep it open , " but they never actually do anything to encourage people to go to those branch . they never give an indication that the branch may be shut , and then they just shut it . of course , people then miss the service , and the bank say , " there be one close by in another area . " as have be describe , people be be charge to withdraw their money from a cash machine . as the hon . Gentleman say about free cash , it be their money to start with , but when bank tell people that they have to get a bus to go to the bank , they be also charge people to get their money out . everything we be discuss pass on the cost from the bank to the consumer , just to get their money out . I be lucky that I have a banking hub in my constituency . other town be go to need they — they do bring advantage — but the way that the whole high street industry of banking be operate be cause huge disadvantage to people . ultimately , it be constantly charge they to get their own money out . cash be still alive and well , and for some , access to it be still a necessity — indeed , last year £ 80 billion in cash be withdraw from the Link network . however , with the rise and rise of internet banking and contactless payment , we have see a near - complete withdrawal of bank branch from certain part of the country . as have be mention , there be 10 , 000 branch 10 year ago ; now , there be just 3 , 000 . one of those closure be the NatWest bank in Bakewell , in February 2024 . it be not just the last bank in Bakewell ; it be the last bank in the entire Peak District national park . in a few week ' time , when the Lloyds bank in Ashbourne close , there will be no bank in the entire derbyshire Dales constituency — an area of nearly 400 square mile . there be many reason why people need access to cash , all of which be ably demonstrate by the magnificent market town of Bakewell . of course , there be resident there on low income or benefit , who find it much easy to budget use cash and be less likely to have access to the internet . there be an age population there who simply will not want to change , or do not trust the technology . we have have elderly resident take two - hour round trip on the bus simply to withdraw cash from what be their new near bank , rather than use the atm in Bakewell . there be several successful market each week ; the trader will all have electronic card reader to take payment with , but despite what the mobile network may say , people struggle to get a signal in Bakewell and trader often have to ask shopper to pay in cash . there be also numerous independent shop that serve Bakewell ' s 6 million visitor . those shop need cash to run , and when they queue up for cash at the post office they find that they be be ration , as it simply could not cope with the demand . despite all its attribute , Bakewell be turn down for a banking hub the first time around . when I be elect , I go back to Link , which do the assessment and make the decision on banking hub . over the course of several conversation , I try to understand what have be miss the first time around . I have to say that Link be very responsive , and after we have submit another application follow a slight relaxation of its criterion on population size , its representative be happy to come back to Bakewell . I take they to the agricultural business centre to see the livestock market , where the auctioneer demonstrate to they the staggering number of transaction take place use cheque . this , I be glad to say , seem to be the missing part of the puzzle . back in December , we be tell that we have be give a full counter service banking hub — it be the good Christmas present ever . the experience in Ashbourne be completely different , show that one size do not fit all . the process there be seamless : Lloyds announce that it would close , an assessment be do , the criterion be all meet , and I liaise with Cash Access UK over timeframe , location and so on . I be very glad to say that the permanent Ashbourne banking hub will open on 27 June , and it look like the permanent Bakewell hub will follow towards the end of July . this will continue the excellent work and grow reputation of the temporary Bakewell hub . a national Cash Access UK report suggest that over 90 % of customer believe that banking hub be extremely important to the community , and the feedback that I get from service user be all positive . the evidence suggest that banking hub increase footfall and boost the local economy , and I be very relieved that we will shortly have two in the Derbyshire Dales . the speak limit be now three minute . I call David Mundell . in that case , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will start with my ask of the Minister , which be that the criterion for assess whether there should be a free - to - use cash machine in a community be reassess . for example , in my constituency , the Bank of Scotland close its branch in the community of Moffat on the same day as it close four other branch . at the moment , Link have to take into account every other cash machine in the vicinity , regardless of whether there be any cash in those machine — often , machine in retail outlet be not fully stock with cash all the time ; they rely on cash come in through the till to go into the machine — or whether premise be open for 24 hour or be particularly disabled or vulnerable people - friendly . at this moment , we can not get another cash machine because it have be assess that the number be sufficient , without any assessment of those cash machine . the closure I refer to mean that for 75 mile along the M74 motorway , from the border to Hamilton , you will not find a bank branch . when it come to bank building be take up by other , I have not be as lucky as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) : they be often very large building on small high street , and unless the bank be willing to do something themselves , there be not often other user . the Bank of Scotland previously say that it would allow the Peebles branch that be close to be for community use , and the community have engage , so I be disappointed to hear that they find today that a " for sale " sign have appear outside that branch . I hope that the Bank of Scotland will keep that community access . my third point be that we need to join up what be happen . the Bank of Scotland in Sanquhar in my constituency be close . the bank be put a bank consultant into the community to look after its customer , it say , but that person will not be in the post office that have be designate by Link as the effective banking hub in that community . that person will hold separate meeting in a council office . there just be not join - up thinking . my final point be that we talk about post office when many people do not have a physical post office , but a temporary post office deliver out of the back of a van , which be not capable of provide a banking hub service . the bank have more or less abandon my constituency , and it sound like that be the case for many other . some 6 , 500 branch have close in recent year , as have more than 200 post office . there be 23 separate settlement in my constituency with no access to banking . we do have banking hub . it be an hour each way by bus to get to one , and it cost at least six quid to get there and back . I represent large number of people live in poverty , and it be hard for they to raise that kind of money just to have access to banking service . I will make two other point about my constituency and then a general point . the bus service be very poor . as I have just say , it can take an hour each way to get to the banking hub , and the banking hub do not provide all the service that a bank should provide . my other point about my constituency be that there be 15 zone for the internet , and 11 of those 15 zone be among the bad for internet provision in the country . how on earth be someone suppose to access banking on an internet system that be simply not work ? it show the extent to which Britain ' s infrastructure be creak , and it be not acceptable that bank should abandon the people who help to create they in the first place . I will just make this final point about mobility and accessibility . one in four household in my constituency have no access at all to a vehicle . that be more than 20 , 000 people without a van or a car to get they to a bank , even if a bank be available . it be a disgrace that the bank have turn their back on all those people who be their loyal customer for so many year . business that rely on cash and collect cash each day have nowhere to deposit it . People be drive home from their place of work or their business with cash in the boot and nowhere safe to put it . that be a dangerous thing . it be odd , ideologically , to hear member from the party of free enterprise and the free market say , " we have to do something about capitalism withdraw from community . " that be what be happen , and that be the nature of capitalism itself . we should just say that the financial sector in this country be worth £ 17 trillion , which dwarf our gdp of £ 2 . 5 trillion . the bank be worth eight time more than the total output of the whole UK . as we have hear elsewhere , £ 44 billion of profit have be make by the bank in recent year . it be time we bring the bank to order to serve our community — order . I call Helen Morgan . [ interruption . ] sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be so absorb by the debate that I do not hear you call my name . I congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure this debate , which be important . in my constituency of North Shropshire , there be five market town , but only one will have a commercial banking branch leave after the closure of the NatWest in Market Drayton this year . we find ourselves in a situation of manage decline for rural constituent , with essential service slowly remove bit by bit every year . just two month ago , I attend the opening of the Whitchurch banking hub , which be provide a vital service to a town of around 10 , 000 people that have lose its final bank branch . while that be great news for Whitchurch and the good alternative to a network of commercial bank , we must consider now those market town that do not meet the criterion set by Link . for example , the lovely , historic , but quite small town of Ellesmere in North Shropshire have a population of around 5 , 000 people and 90 commercial unit . it be a hub for a large rural area and there be no bank and no prospect of get one , accord to Link , because it do not meet the criterion . ellesmere still have a post office , which be rely upon by local business for cash service . have be the financial controller of a business in an area serve only by a post office , I can tell the House that people need to do more than simply deposit and withdraw cash . although I be a big fan of Prees post office and village store , if I need to change the signatory on a bank account or set up a new one , it be a logistical nightmare ; if I do not want to post valuable and sensitive document , it require a half - day trip to a town with a physical branch . for someone in Ellesmere , the near town be Oswestry . to visit an actual bank in person be a 45 - minute round trip on public transport . someone live in the surround village be in a difficult situation . those resident might also have use their post office at some point , but now those post office be be systematically close down . in my constituency , from Knockin to Hadnall and from Weston Rhyn to Shawbury , outreach post office have be close in one fell swoop with a couple of week ' notice . a Post Office representative sound surprised recently when they tell I that outreach service only available for one hour a week be not well use . it seem not to have occur to they that if the post office be only available for a single hour , that might not be terribly convenient . I have little time leave , so I will just say that for place with poor digital access , where many people can not access online banking , it be essential that we review the criterion that Link use to assess the need for a banking hub . a medieval market town that have be serve the centre of its community for hundred and hundred of year be on its knee because there be no access to banking . it be essential that we get those service back into high street to revitalise town such as Ellesmere and Wem as soon as possible . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this important debate . from Farnworth and Kearsley to Walkden and beyond , people across my constituency have see at first hand the impact of lose high street bank . in Farnworth , for example , last month we see NatWest on Market Street close on 15 May and Lloyds on the same street close on 28 May . those be not just building , but vital service that people have depend on for decade . in Walkden , we be now set to lose the halifax branch on Bolton Road . People be tell I that they be worried about how they will manage , especially those who do not bank online . one woman in her late 70 tell I : " I never think I ' d see the day when there wasn ' t a single bank leave in town . " a gentleman in his early 70 say he do not feel safe banking online , and must go all the way into Bolton just to do basic transaction . these thing be a necessity , not a luxury for they . the issue be impact small business , too , especially small trader who trade in cash . some be now force to drive out of town just to deposit taking . that mean lose time , lose footfall and more pressure on our already struggle high street . that be why I strongly support the idea of banking hub . they be share space that allow customer from different bank to access service under one roof , with in - person staff available . under the current rule , Farnworth , which be undergo a major regeneration , do not qualify for a hub because it have nearby cash machine . a few atm do not meet the need of a whole town ; what people need be real , face - to - face advice and service , especially those who be vulnerable or less digitally confident . the criterion set by the Financial Conduct Authority be far too rigid . they do not take account of the local picture , the age of the population , digital exclusion or public transport access . million of people in the UK still rely on cash to budget , and last year alone £ 80 billion be withdraw through the Link network . that be £ 1 , 400 a person . in Farnworth , a local petition have be launch call for a banking hub that properly serve the need of resident in Farnworth and Kearsley . will the Minister please review the true impact of branch closure on community such as mine ? will they reform the criterion for banking hub so that they reflect real - life need , not just cashpoint number , and will they ensure that face - to - face banking be protect not just in principle , but in practice ? it be about manage thing fairly . I congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure this important debate . in a world dominate by contactless payment and banking app , it be very easy for some people to live cash - free and seldom visit a bank , but we must not overlook the 3 million to 5 million people who still rely on cash on a daily basis . these consumer be far more likely to be digitally exclude and financially vulnerable . I recently conduct a cash access survey in my constituency . some 55 % of respondent say that they use cash on a daily basis , and 91 % believe the Government should safeguard the acceptance of cash as a valid form of payment . it be vital that access to cash and banking service be protect . it be important for those who use cash , but we must consider the resilience of the wide banking and financial system too . we have recently witness a major power outage at Heathrow , as well as large - scale power cut in Iberia . we be increasingly aware of threat pose by hostile state that want to conduct cyber - attack to disrupt our national infrastructure , so cash and local banking service must remain accessible to allow society to function in the event of any major disruption . this be a matter of national security . in Bromsgrove and the village , we be experience the effect of change in the way that people bank . with the closure of Lloyds and Halifax , Bromsgrove high street will have lose four bank in just three year . such bank be a lifeline for so many small business — particularly those run by independent entrepreneur — as well as for local resident , who rely on banking service every single day . if we be not careful , Bromsgrove risk become a banking desert with an increasingly empty high street . I know that Bromsgrove be not eligible for a formal banking hub , so I call on the Minister to review the true impact of the closure of bank across the country , and to review the criterion that a community have to meet in order for a banking hub to be provide . in the limited time I have leave I want to draw attention to the further decline of high street and the important role that bank provide in draw people into their community . bank often occupy some of the most prominent , most beautiful and most significant historic building . once they be vacant , they be often leave empty , and they become eyesore and further symbol of the deterioration of high street , which affect so many of the community that we represent . I ask the Government to review the criterion for banking hub , and to focus on serious , long - term business rate reform that will enable high street to thrive into the future . collectively , as a House of Commons , we must put pressure on the banking system to ensure that cash access remain a part of our function economy , and that as many of our constituent as possible have access to day - to - day retail banking service . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure the debate . South Norfolk be no stranger to the creep erosion of our local banking infrastructure . in January this year , Lloyds bank announce that it will close its branch in Wymondham , which be the last high street bank in the town . that leave only a single branch of the Nationwide building society to serve a grow population of over 17 , 000 . the day after the closure be announce , on 30 January , I secure an emergency meeting with Lloyds bank and make it clear that , without alternative provision , the closure would have serious consequence , especially for small business , and the data bear this out . Lloyds bank ' s own datum show that Wymondham cashpoint use increase by 17 % between 2019 and 2024 . that be not a service in decline , but a service in demand . it be absolutely clear that a new banking hub must be up and run before the bank branch close next March . I be pleased to report that this have now be arrange and that the site be currently be finalise . I will continue to do everything within my power to ensure that Wymondham be not leave behind . however , this issue be not limit to my large town in South Norfolk . Loddon lose its Barclays bank in 2017 , Long Stratton lose its Barclays bank in 2015 , and if we be not careful , the story will be repeat across every rural constituency in the country . for rural community such as mine , access to cash be not a matter of convenience ; it be essential . many of our village still experience patchy mobile signal and poor internet connectivity , and when card machine go down or wi - fi drop out , it be cash that keep the local economy go . we must remember that rural Norfolk have one of the old population in the country . many resident prefer , or simply need , to manage their money in person . for they , travel 20 or 30 mile to the near bank in Norwich be not go to work . that be why we need to be far more imaginative about how we can ensure that people have access to cash . one idea be to reimagine how we use our post office and pub . we all know that pub be the hub of our community in village life , but too many be struggle to stay open . let they provide additional service , such as access to cash and postal service , would be a way to keep those hub of rural village life go . community banking should not be something that we fight tooth and nail to preserve ; it should be the backbone of a fair and function economy . our rural town and village should not be tell that their need be out of date or out of scope . I will keep fight for that in Wymondham , Loddon , Long Stratton and all the village of South Norfolk , and I know that many of my hon . friend will be do the same for their rural community . I thank the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for bring this debate before we today . I want to make a few comment . I agree with the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) that access to banking service be a major issue in rural constituency , but it can also be an issue in urban constituency . in part of my constituency , which be wholly urban , some community have be leave without bank . owe to the way public transport work and its unaffordability in some place , access bank can still be hard , even if people live in a community that be part of a city , so we need to make sure that we be look at this issue as a whole in all the community affect . public transport can be a significant issue . where capitalism fail , we need market intervention — that be what should happen . we need more market intervention to ensure that there be at least a minimum , if not a universal , banking service . a number of the bank that have close in my constituency have say , " it ' s okay , because people will be able to go to the post office . " however , the post office in Seaton have close , and we have be fight for year to get a new post office in the community , but nobody be willing to take it up . that community be leave without either of those service , and people have to travel . in common with the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) , a significant proportion of my constituent — at least a third — do not have access to a car , and get around the city and to the bank can be pretty difficult for they . we have universal service obligation when it come to broadband and to Royal Mail delivery , but we do not have they when it come to post office service and banking service , yet cash be incredibly important . the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) mention access to cash , but that be not the only reason we need banking service . there be some thing that can only be do in a bank — whether that be business deposit the cash that they have take , people take cash out of a cash machine , or individual sign form to approve a loan or a mortgage . some of those thing can only be do physically in the bank , include thing that people need to do only once a year . someone live in Banff , Aberdeenshire , will have to spend an hour and a half to two hour on public transport to get into the city — a significant length of time . as the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) say early , we be charge people for that privilege . even though it might be free to withdraw cash , the public transport that they need to take in order to get to a bank be not free . I urge the Government to look at the minimum service that people need in order to access cash and banking service that be close to they , and that they can access by whatever method of transport they happen to have . could the Government please take action on this ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for bring this really important debate to this House , and I think we speak with one voice on this particular issue . we both represent post - industrial town , and we can both see the decline of our high street . bank have long be pillar of our high street in support local business , sustain job , and drive regional growth and economic stability . in an increasingly digital age of contactless payment and banking app , it be easy to underestimate the value of physical bank branch in our town centre . with the ongoing closure of trusted high street bank , many community be be leave isolated and underserved , so banking hub can provide vital in - person service , particularly for old resident , those with long - term health condition and people at risk of economic abuse . I feel that we need to speak far about this subject and I will write to the Minister , because economic abuse and financial inclusion be really big issue . organisation such as Link play a key role in support the transition to a digital economy , have commit to ensure 98 % of people have reasonable access to free cash service . however , this commitment do not go far enough for area such as Atherton and Golborne — two place with age population , active local business and expand community . in Golborne , 18 . 6 % of resident be over 65 , the second - high area in the Wigan borough . Atherton , with a busy train station and a thriving night - time economy , still have no remain bank . significant housing development in both area be far increase demand for financial service , yet the infrastructure continue to shrink . Atherton resident often travel to Leigh for banking , leave their own town centre with decline footfall and empty retail unit . although evidence - base proposal for banking hub have be make , recent Link assessment do not recommend any new cash service in our area , leave people exclude and unheard . will the Minister confirm whether the Government be review the assessment process to ensure that such community be properly hear and their need fully meet ? in look to the future , I urge the Government to consider the inclusion of credit union , a co - operative model of banking such as the Unify credit union in my constituency , as part of their wide financial inclusion strategy . a point that have not yet be make be the importance of credit union and access to responsible lending . one thing that people can do at a high street bank but can not do at a banking hub be get a loan , so I be grateful to the hon . member for mention credit union . in my area , nationwide on the A6 in Hazel Grove have shut , which be have a massive impact on what people can do beyond access to cash . I agree with the hon . member , and unify credit union in my constituency do give out loan in an ethical way to community organisation and people who be struggle . banking hub be not just about financial transaction ; they be also about sustain the health , growth and regeneration of our town . let we ensure that we be protect the digitally exclude , support the financially vulnerable and do everything possible to keep our high street alive . I start , as my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) do , with an ask of the Minister . as she will have hear , this issue be apolitical , and we be raise it very much because we care about our community . can we increase the flexibility for banking hub to be roll out throughout the country ? I apologise , because I should really have start by congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure this important debate . in South West Hertfordshire I have see the decline of high street , include a reduction in the number of banking branch . nationwide , which have be mention , deserve credit for proactively retain its high street presence , which do help my resident and , I be sure , other across the country . in Rickmansworth in my constituency , the local post office manager , Danny , have step up and be now manage a banking hub , which allow my resident access to the frontline banking service to which they would not normally have access . I be also work alongside two of my councillor in Abbots Langley — Councillor Vicky Edwards and Councillor Ian Campbell — and I hope the Minister will encourage the power that be to see that , where there be a real need for community to have a banking presence , banking hub be an obvious solution . if we want our high street to remain viable , we need to encourage people to continue to come down to the high street . historically , that have mean service such as banking . that will , I hope , increase footfall for our local caf é s , hairdresser and all the other service associate with the high street . we have hear about the 6 , 300 bank that have close since 2015 . I be a former retailer , and I understand that high street change , but from a policy perspective , Parliament need to create the framework that ensure high street be as we want they to be . if we do not proactively encourage banking hub to be in the centre of our town — yes , atm be important , but they be typically in place such as out - of - town petrol station — we be not help small retailer and convenience store that rely on emergency purchase of a pint of milk and the like . I will close , because I be conscious of the time , with a pledge from I — and , I hope , those on my Front Bench — that if the Government step up and say they will increase the flexibility of banking hub , they will have our support , because cash remain king . we have speak before about digital exclusion , and it will have a massive impact on a minority of our population if we do not get this right . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this important debate . access to cash be important , but it be only one part of the story . the closure of bank branch strip community across our country not just of access to money , but of access to advice and support service that can not simply be replicate online . it go far than that . for some elderly resident this be about a sense of community and purpose , such as the weekly trip with friend to interact with other , plan a food shop , go to a supermarket or even visit friend . I remember when I be a child , when my grandfather be due to make his regular trip to the bank , he would get suited and booted , have a haircut and tell we all proudly that he be off to the bank . it be also the highlight of my week , because I always receive a £ 5 note afterwards . in my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham , I be pleased to announce only last week that we will be get a banking hub , follow a recent campaign . for clarity , we do have a Nationwide on site at the minute . I have hear directly from resident about how much this mean to they . I have receive numerous letter describe their struggle when they have not be able to access banking service . many resident have describe long journey to neighbouring town , often rely on friend or public transport just to withdraw cash or speak to somebody in person . other resident have speak of the confusion and anxiety cause by use online banking that they neither trust nor understand . we be talk about people who find themselves in effect lock out of the system simply because they do not use an app or a smartphone . these be real people in our community , not a small minority . accord to Age UK , more than 2 . 5 million people over 65 have never use the internet , and the access to cash review find that around 10 million UK adult would struggle in a cashless society . many of they also lack digital literacy or the infrastructure to bank online . this include people with disability , carer , those for whom English be not a first language , and people live on low income who can not afford broadband or mobile datum . we should not expect they to adapt to a system that be not design for they in the first place . the reality be that high street bank have for some time be take decision base on commercial viability rather than community need . I understand that bank be not charity , but the Government do have a responsibility to ensure that no one be cut off from basic service because they be not digital or because they be not profitable . if we want to prevent digital exclusion from become a permanent feature of our society , banking hub must be part of a national strategy . that include ensure they be well - promote , well - resource and available in all the place of great need . I be pleased that my constituency will benefit from a banking hub , but we need to go far . the criterion need to change , and we must ensure this be base not just on access to cash but , importantly , on the service that banking hub provide to a community . it be clear that we all care about our constituency . my constituency of North East Fife be well below the UK average in the statistic on access to cash . the new power and obligation give to the FCA under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 have go some way towards address these problem . it be important to remember that everything happen before be voluntary . we have twice go through the review process with Link — successfully in Anstruther , but frustratingly not so in Cupar . the Anstruther banking counter be to some extent a success story . the bank close and the post office close , but a review be carry out and recommendation be make for a counter provide cash deposit and withdrawal . however , there be some problem with the process that I hope can be iron out . the review be request by a local organisation that have hope to provide space for the counter , if recommend , know that a lot of its customer use cash and there be no nearby ATM , but it be not automatically advise of the outcome of the assessment and find out only after the fact . that mean it do not get the chance to make an input to those make an assessment of possible location . I myself be not aware of the opening of the hub until I hear incidentally from a local councillor who be involve in the running of the location where the hub open . if elect representative and the local medium do not know about counter open , I be very concerned that the public will not know either . however , the main issue , which many have pick up , be that the cash counter be not a banking hub . part of the picture , as I understand it , be that we could have more support in Anstruther if someone be willing to take on the post office , but no one want to , and have meet the National Federation of SubPostmasters early this year , I can understand why . this be a problem that the Government need to address and I hope the Minister can do so in her remark . what be the Government do to make taking on a post office more attractive ? they be vital to the success of banking hub , but also the health of community more generally . the other part of the picture , as other have touch on , be that the legislation only require maintain access to cash , not banking service . that be a real oversight . I mention , in my intervention on the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) — I congratulate he on secure the debate — that the all - party parliamentary group on fair banking give we some quite worry stat on the financial health of household income . it be incumbent on bank to help people well manage their finance so that we do not end up with situation where people be in debt . I ask the Minister whether the financial inclusion committee , which she chair , would look at access to banking service . I hope she will be able to update we on that today . the last point I want to make , which other have mention , be about the challenge around atm . we have have a big problem in Leven where , in just the last few week , the final bank have close . we have a Nationwide , but it consistently run out of money and customer be really show their frustration . whether it be more cashpoint or more replenishing of what be already there , something have to be do . the assessment need to take well consideration of what cash usage actually look like in an area . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure this important debate . in just the last two year , Bitterne Precinct in my constituency have lose four high street bank and , unfortunately , nationwide building society . add to that NatWest in 2023 , and now Halifax and Lloyds both close next Monday . these closure be leave a community which , by Link ' s own assessment , count 32 , 000 people among it with no branch banking provision at all . we all recognise that technology have change the way we bank , and mostly for the well , but it be not always a substitute for in - person service . People still need to deposit cash , sort out complex issue , or just get advice from another human being . for too many , this be not about convenience ; it end up with they be cut off . let I share some word from my constituent I speak to in the precinct . Kayley , a former bank worker in Thornhill , tell I : " some customer be unable to access online banking … visit the bank be their only human interaction that day . face - to - face service be imperative . " Mandy from Bitterne describe how her elderly , blind mother break down in tear when she learn her local branch would be close . Mandy say : " banking in Bitterne give she a lifeline . it keep her independence . she doesn ' t bank online because she can ' t see the screen , but she can still walk into Bitterne to manage her affair . " Frederick , another resident , highlight the rise cost of exclusion , and I wonder if we have really count that in . he say : " a banking hub would put money in people ' s pocket by save they the cost of take Ubers or bus just to withdraw cash . " Link tell we that a post office can be a substitute , but our local post office have no outside cashpoint and it can not cash certain cheque , so when Halifax and Lloyds close next week there will be no outside cash access in the entire area and no high street bank on the entire eastern side of Southampton . I therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment to roll out 350 banking hub over the next five year , but I want to be clear that Bitterne should be at the front of that queue . it would not only restore access to banking , but help — other have eloquently make the point — to secure the future of the high street , support local business and protect resident from financial isolation . hundred of people have sign my petition to bring a banking hub to Bitterne , and many more have write to I . like other , I meet Link . I have to share my frustration with the House about how the review be be conduct . the Link survey suggest that my constituent could quite easily take a bus into Southampton city centre in 12 minute . that be for the bird . if they do it in the dead of night with no traffic on the road and ignore the speed limit , then maybe , but it can take up to 90 minute to do that round trip . let we set up the banking hub to succeed . I ask the Minister : how be we go to achieve that manifesto commitment when we be essentially outsource it to Link ? let we invest in solution that do not leave anyone behind and let we bring banking back to Bitterne . I commend the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this important debate . like so many place across the country , bank branch have close at an alarming rate in my constituency . not so long ago , resident could pop down to a branch of every major high street bank in the town of Waltham Cross , Cheshunt and Hoddesdon . just last week , Halifax become the late bank branch to shut its door in Waltham Cross , while in Hoddesdon the former site of the Barclays remain empty , a scar on an otherwise vibrant town centre . in my town of Cheshunt , a town of 40 , 000 people , not a single bank branch remain . that simply can not be right . the lack of in - person banking facility be deprive people of access to vital service . for so many old and vulnerable people , it be cause huge difficulty and frustration , as they be force to rely on digital service such as app and smartphone . my hon . friend make a powerful point , and I particularly wish to draw his attention to the plight of blind people . Royal National Institute of Blind People research in 2023 find that 28 % of blind and partially sight people never use the internet , they struggle with atm , and they struggle too with travel to bank . I completely agree with my right hon . friend . it be really important that we expand the rule to get banking hub in more location across the country . not least of all , my nan do not do online banking . every time I go and see she , she badger I about it . she will specifically bank with someone where she can have face - to - face service , because she will not do online banking . it be a real struggle , because some bank say , " well , you ' ve get to telephone . " but even then , one have to have a smartphone to get a code on the app for security , so it be very difficult for our old and disabled constituent to access those vital service . when Barclays go from the high street in Hoddesdon , it do a " Barclays local " . through the good work of my Conservative - run Broxbourne council , we manage to get it into the spotlight , our local theatre , but it be cashless . that be nonsense ! its bread and butter business as a high street bank be to deal with cash and get people access to its cash and banking service , but it want to run a service that be now cashless . we try in Cheshunt — as I say , a town of 40 , 000 people with no banking service — to get the NatWest banking van at the car park of our Laura Trott sport centre , but again it would only offer a cashless service . this be bread and butter to the high street bank . they should accept cash and we should bring forward legislation to ensure that our constituent across the country have access to banking service . we need to look at the rule , because wait until the last bank be in our high street do not promote consumer choice or solve people ' s banking and access to cash need . on bus , my constituent be lucky if the bus even turn up — we get one bus once an hour — so include public transport in analysis of banking hub location be unreliable . we need to widen the criterion to enable more banking hub to be open up across the country . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on secure such an important debate . next week , the Lloyds and Halifax branch in Welwyn Garden City will close their door to customer for the last time . in Hatfield , we have already lose every bank branch from White Lion Square in the centre of town . as we have hear today , this be a wearily familiar story in community across the country . regrettably , I must start by share my experience with Lloyds Banking Group . on its website , it talk of a " commitment to put customer first " . I be afraid my experience , on behalf of resident in Welwyn Garden City , leave I feel that we be just another cog in the corporate wheel . early this year , my office be inform of the closure of Lloyds and Halifax in Welwyn Garden City barely an hour before they hit send on the press release . the management do respond to my firmly word letter demand a meeting , and , in person , I make it clear that if the closure could not be overturn , I want to work together on a bespoke option for a community banking service . I suggest Welwyn Garden City library as an appropriate community venue , and say if that option be pursue , there should be no barrier to run a regular service , give the extremely low cost to Lloyds of hire a room . Lloyds need frequent chasing to respond afterwards , and eventually come back with its standardised offer : a community banking service in the library , but open just once every fortnight . that be its national policy , so Welwyn Garden City be in no bad or well a position than any of our neighbour , but I be leave with the impression that Lloyds be never serious about a bespoke solution for our town . if Lloyds Banking Group be listen or watch today and want to think again , I will happily take a call as soon as I leave this Chamber . as other bank and build society close , it be the role of Government to accelerate the roll - out of banking hub . in Hatfield , we have a temporary banking hub at the post office in White Lion Square , and I know that Cash Access and Welwyn Hatfield borough council be work towards a permanent home . some people will always want to have face - to - face conversation about their finance . the hub model be here to stay — a service underpin by the state , via the Post Office , which we need in community across the country . I be equally convinced that the way bank and building society navigate this period of change might lead to customer be increasingly open to switch . I commend Nationwide for its national commitment to keep branch open , and note with interest that the Current Account Switch Service find last year that nearly 1 . 2 million Brits switch their current account , with Nationwide the beneficiary of the most net switch . the challenge for the retail banking industry be to show they take seriously the need to engage with customer who want and need in - person support , and those who succeed might find that do good be good business . however , where business have a choice to make , Government have an obligation . let we fast - track our plan for banking hub and redouble our effort to ensure that no community be without one . I thank the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this debate . one of the most meaningful moment I have have so far as a Member of Parliament be hear the elderly resident of a nearby care home thank I for secure a banking hub in Ystradgynlais . that hub be now open and work , provide an essential service to resident and small business , many of whom be previously face long and expensive journey just to access basic banking service . the local response have be overwhelmingly positive , with many resident say that the bring back of those banking service be the first time they have see their community restore service in many year . the opening of this hub do not happen by chance . I put on the record my thank to all the staff at Link and the regulator who engage with we throughout the process . they take the time to understand the community ' s cash and banking need and seek to find a solution . their involvement be constructive , and I commend they for it . that be how an effective regulator can make life well for ordinary people by rein in corporate greed . if the Government be look for way to win back favour , surely commit to more banking hub must be one of they . the Government have commit to 350 , but in reality , as we have hear , the country need far more . the demand be there and the model work , but the current framework be far too restrictive . I have submit application for new hub in my constituency in Pontardawe , Brecon , Presteigne and Builth Wells , each of which have a clear case . we need a system that support those application , instead of hold they back through outdated rule and artificial limit . in Brecon , we have one final bank branch remain . in Hay - on - Wye — a town bless with a bustling high street and a number of independent business — not a single bank remain . elsewhere in Radnorshire , Presteigne see its last bank close early this year , and Rhayader be trouble by community banker who do not wish to visit it . in Pontardawe , in the Swansea valley , Lloyds be due to close the final remain branch later this year cite a lack of footfall , despite queue from the door to the counter . all the while , bank continue to report billion of pound in annual profit and rise dividend . they say they have no option but to close these branch because of the digital transformation , yet some of they cite statistic show that up to 50 % of their customer still need physical service . the bank have fundamentally change their service offering . who would now deposit their life saving with someone that offer to meet they in a car park once a week ? that be what Charlie Nunn , the ceo of Lloyds Banking Group , have do to his customer in Presteigne , Brecon , Ystradgynlais and now Pontardawe . he take home a staggering £ 5 . 6 million last year , have close more than 140 bank branch to save his company some overhead , and manage to bump up the Lloyds dividend by 13 % . do he deserve that ? do he know the misery he have cause people in do so ? will he stop the closure of the Pontardawe branch , something that more than 500 local resident have call on he to do ? I do not intend to labour too long on rehash point that have already be make . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure the debate and the Backbench Business Committee for schedule it . it be very clear that access to a physical bank be important for many people in our community . my constituency , like those of colleague present , have not be spare the loss of bank . in Lichfield , we have recently lose our Barclays branch , but up the road in Burntwood we have a much more difficult situation : every single bank branch have be close for a number of year . the community have step up , as it so often do in Burntwood , and the post office have fill the breach . there be some access to banking service , but that be not the same as a physical branch . as I sit and listen to the debate today , I realise that there be one word that sum up the importance of this matter — regeneration . Burntwood have a high street that be almost ready to go . some business be thrive and the footfall be massive , but there be not the investment to make it kick on and become a town centre of which the whole town can be proud . in Lichfield , where the bank be more present , there be a thriving cafe culture . although everything be not all sunshine and rainbow in Lichfield and it never will be , we can really see the difference in the two town centre . what we be see here be almost an unvirtuous circle , where high street start to struggle , footfall drop off , bank start to struggle and withdraw , footfall drop far , shop struggle more , and so on . it be a spiral to the bottom . the hon . Gentleman be become an hon . friend . what happen be that the bank encourage their customer to do thing online . you can not open an account in a branch — where branch still exist — and then say that online banking be replace face - to - face contact . it be important to say that internet banking be not go away . these two idea — face - to - face banking and internet banking — should be two side of the same coin . all our high street bank should recognise that they have a responsibility to both way of work . I prefer to bank online because I be busy and spend half my life on train , but there be people who do not have that luxury , as they be technologically reluctant to engage . I hear many people ask the Government , " what can we do to get more banking hub ? what can we do to encourage more physical bank ? " that be something that I would support , particularly for town such as Burntwood , where bring those bank back could be that spark of regeneration — the thing that start to reverse that unvirtuous circle , so that it become a virtuous circle , where those bank be present and they drive footfall : it be easy to get cash , easy for business to bank there and easy for the high street to come back . we all know that the high street be the physical representation of how people feel the economy be go . one reason people be so worried about the economy be that our high street have be fail for decade . government have not support high street for far too long , and I be proud that this Government be say that they will now do so . get bank back on to the high street , where they belong , can be that first step for town such as Burntwood and the other that we have hear about in today ' s debate . I thank the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this debate . in my constituency of Farnham and Bordon , the situation be stark . although I welcome the fact that we have secure a temporary banking hub in the Shed , in Bordon , on the Hampshire side , it rapidly need to have a permanent location . in Liphook , there be no banking hub , no agree plan and no clear process for secure one . across the border in Surrey , in Haslemere , we be fortunate to have one of the 100 national hub up and run , but in nearby Farnham , Barclays have just go and Santander go next month . all this mean that more than 100 , 000 people across my constituency have not a single bank and only one building society . constituent be right to be concern . Link , the UK ' s main cash access body , have state that Santander ' s closure will have , " no significant impact on the community " . I strongly disagree ; it absolutely will . this can not continue to be a postcode lottery . bank be once embed in town and community but now they be be erase with little left behind . banking hub be a partial answer , but the system need reform . the process be slow , the criterion too narrow and the scope of service too limited . Hubs must be locate centrally , open five or six day a week , accessible to those with limited mobility and reachable without a car . they should serve both individual and small business and , crucially , offer face - to - face banking , not just cash point and machine . in a society where collective trust be deplete , do my hon . friend agree that the presence of face - to - face banking service and banking customer be able to have a direct in - person relationship with real people be one step that we can all take to help rebuild collective trust in the institution that underpin society ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend ; he make a very convincing point . when we be deal with something as vital as personal finance , it should not be too much to demand to see a person face to face . the legislation we rely on to manage access to banking , include the Financial Services and Markets Act , remain focus almost exclusively on access to cash , not access to banking service . that distinction matter . deposit taking , seek support with financial abuse and get advice be all service that can not be deliver by a machine . even when resident be confident and willing to bank online , they be often hold back by something much simple : their connection . in many part of my constituency , mobile coverage and broadband access be so poor that digital banking be unreliable , if not impossible . the digital divide be no long just a social challenge but a financial one too . old people , disabled people , rural resident and small business all deserve access to a banking system that work for they , not just for those who be already digitally fluent or live in well - connect area . that mean that physical service , in - person advice and real access to cash must remain part of the infrastructure of modern life . will the Minister work with Link , Cash Access UK and local authority to accelerate the roll - out of banking hub ? will she expand the remit of the Financial Services and Markets Act to protect access to full banking service , not just to cash ? finally , will she meet I to discuss how we can support the roll - out of permanent , accessible banking hub in Liphook and Farnham ? no one should be exclude from essential financial service because of their postcode , their age , or the strength of their wi - fi signal . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) for secure this important debate . for five year , I work as a support worker for child with autism across the north - east , and I have many fond memory of his constituency , in particular Blyth beach . the community we serve there as support worker often have complex need , and in many way they be some of the people who be most vulnerable to the digital - by - default approach to public service like banking , which have be one of the excuse for high street bank closure and one of the reason for public anger at the loss of service . it be a huge privilege to spend that time work with young people with disability , and I learn so much about humanity and community . I also learn about the state ' s role as an essential safeguard and why we need to build inclusion and safeguard into planning . banking be no exception . I have be really encourage by this Government ' s work on banking hub as a way to mitigate banking closure , but it be clear that far more need to be do . while the debate understandably focus on more rural community , I echo the comment of the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) that it be a myth that this sort of disenfranchisement be exclusive to rural area . I have see the barrier at first hand , whether in my experience as a care worker or from try to convince my young brother to change his behaviour . he have autism , and it be not the easy thing to try to get he to do something new . change that I and many other take in our stride be profound and insurmountable for some , and I urge my colleague in Government to be ambitious in foster more inclusive service . we should set the bar high for inclusive service in this country . while I be a big fan of digital transformation and consider myself to be a tech evangelist , change can not and must not come at the expense of people who can not or choose not to engage . the issue of high street bank closure in my constituency be keenly feel in Worle . despite the valiant campaign lead by the formidable Jill Leahy to keep the Lloyds open on Worle high street , we could secure only a short stay of execution , and now Worle be without a bank . to compound this , the post office in north Worle close recently . what be leave be a grow sense of frustration among resident , especially old people and those with disability , who may not be comfortable with use or able to use online banking for digital payment . for they , face - to - face service be not a preference but a necessity . follow the campaign by Jill , local campaigner such as Sally Heap have recently be work hard to advocate a banking hub in Worle . we be hope to be successful in that bid , and I have write to the Minister to put my support behind Sally ' s campaign . I urge the Government and financial institution to listen carefully to constituency and community like mine . a new banking hub in Worle would be a lifeline not only to individual but to the resilience and prosperity of the town . let we make sure that our high street have a future and that no one be leave behind in the rush to become digital - first , which work for many but leave some of our most vulnerable in an intolerable situation . in the last five year , 11 bank branch have close in my constituency , leave most town without traditional banking facility . for example , two year ago the closure of Barclays in Chalfont St Peter trigger the assessment for a formal banking hub . while I recognise that alternative provision be now deliver by the post office or in small pop - up location on an appointment - only basis , those alternative do not go far enough . they be unable to meet all need , force people to travel far afield to find basic banking service and advice on mortgage and debt — and , as the Minister will be all too aware , ask people to rely on a bus network that be increasingly cut service . Link find that Chalfont St Peter do not meet the criterion for a banking hub , yet one in five people there be over the age of 65 , and Age UK find that 40 % of over - 65 with a bank account do not manage their money online . some of my constituent in more rural area also face broadband connectivity issue , restrict their access to online banking . my plea to the Minister echo the call already state to review the criterion by which town be assess for banking hub . accessibility gap must be consider , include access to broadband , and whether resident have adequate access to not only cash — the current criterion — but in - person banking service . I congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) . it be an honour to speak about the impact of the decline of local bank branch , which be an issue of such importance to my constituent . the closure of the Santander in Rustington be just the late blow . the need for a robust and fair system of banking hub be urgent . high street have change beyond recognition . once , we have Barclays , NatWest and Lloyds on every corner . now , 6 , 300 branch have close since 2015 , which be a 64 % fall . cash use may have drop to 14 % of payment , but million still depend on it , especially the elderly , the disabled and the vulnerable . in place like Rustington , entire community have be leave without local banking . some be force online against their wish , even when they can not afford the technology or can not physically use it . at the same time , they be increase their exposure to phishe attack . my constituent Roger Mallock have lose a life - change sum of money to cyber - scammer . post office can not fill the gap ; the queue be long , and they can not handle complex banking need or take large cash deposit . despite my appeal to Link , Rustington be deny a banking hub . I raise the matter directly with the Prime Minister and the Economic Secretary to the Treasury . as one constituent put it : " bank be license by the Government . those licence should come with a duty to maintain local branch . " consider a ukrainian couple who come to Bognor Regis under the Homes for Ukraine scheme . thank to the Santander branch , they open account , and they continue to rely on in - person support due to language barrier ; without it , they would lose hour from work and face serious barrier to manage their finance . they be not alone : many elderly and less mobile customer depend on face - to - face service . banking hub offer a limited solution . only 108 hub be operational out of the 224 plan , and they can take up to 12 month to open . bad , the FCA ' s rule be too narrow , focus only on cash rather than on broad service . the last Government introduce the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , which be a start but do not go far enough . banking be not a luxury ; it be a lifeline . we must ensure that digital innovation do not leave million behind . at the risk of disappoint the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , I rise not entirely to criticise the bank , which have do tremendous work on app and the like , and many people — not all of they spring chicken — make great use of they . but as bank retreat from brick and mortar location , a problem be that even silver surfer who be comfortable with the technology may simply not be able to get the relevant app to work . in rural Dumfries and Galloway , we have too many notspot , where the mobile phone signal be sketchy at good and non - existent at worst . similarly , there be a lack of decent broadband . the ground truth be that while it might be easy - pc for some to get online , sclerotic broadband and thick stone wall design to keep out the scottish damp make too many computer and smartphone expensive placemat . the need for access to face - to - face banking service remain high , as we have hear . as we have also hear , there be numerous issue with the current banking hub regime . take Wigtown in my constituency : it be Scotland ' s official book town , yet the current banking hub criterion fail to capture the significance of that . Wigtown be evaluate on its modest resident population , with no account take of the huge influx of visitor when its famous book festival open its cover . I have a stream of report of the town centre cash machine run out of spondulick outwith the festival and anecdotal report of people gather for a trip to the near hub in Newton Stewart to lift their pension . that hub be 12 mile distant , and notwithstanding our positively balmy climate in Dumfries and Galloway — no , really — it be not walkable . as for the public transport system , let we just say that we need a calendar and not a stopwatch to time the bus . when Dalbeattie , the third big town in my constituency with a population of more than 4 , 000 soul and a slew of thrive business , struggle to get a banking hub , surely there be a compelling case for lower the threshold for hub . I accept that we can not have an ethos of " wherever two or three be gather , there shall be a banking hub " , yet equally , we can not expect one ATM to carry the banking need of hundred , if not thousand , of people . banking have come on in leap and bound since the day of little pen chain to counter and limited opening hour , but on balance , too many people be be leave behind in the technological revolution . american banker Felix Rohatyn , who rescue New York from financial disaster , say : " banking be not simply about profit , but about personal relationship . " even in this digital age , we need to capture some of that spirit via our banking hub . I congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on set the scene and on his introduction of the issue . as an MP for an area that have be hard hit by the removal of 11 bank , first in rural village and now increasingly in even the main town of Strangford , the issue be incredibly important . we need the regulation of access to banking service in legislation and to stop the drain towards online and city - centre banking only . million of people in the UK still rely on cash day to day ; in fact , some 1 . 1 million people in the UK remain unbanked and rely entirely on cash , while more than 8 million adult report that they would struggle to cope in a cashless society . a YouGov survey find that nearly 28 % of small business use cash at least weekly . the British Retail Consortium have show a rise in the use of cash for the second year in a row to 20 % of transaction in 2023 , as more and more people use cash to manage their budget in a difficult economic environment . while closing branch , bank have manage to increase their profit by some £ 2 . 5 billion . it be clear where their focus be . however , once the bank be close and the profit be allocate to shareholder , how will they continue to up the profit ? what service will be remove next ? the percentage of branch closure be low in large and medium - sized town and high in village and small community , at 50 % and 70 % respectively . that be why the Link criterion need to change , be it not ? the trouble be that rural area be disproportionately damage by the fact that the population size be not big enough . People can not get access to banking in the Deepings , Long Sutton , Donington and elsewhere in my constituency . I be sure it be the same in the hon . Gentleman ' s . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right ; that be replicate not just in his constituency and mine , but probably in those of everyone here today . those in rural area be twice as likely as those in urban area to depend on their local post office branch for cash and banking service . with 11 bank close and two banking hub opening , we depend more than ever on the post office . we have credit union but what we can do with they be very limited , despite be very welcome . while bank network decline , the Post Office continue to provide free and convenient access to cash through its branch network . however , the branch in Newtownards in Strangford be set to close — there be potential for that to happen , anyway — and that be absolutely devastating because the range of service that be not available in the local garage , which have a sub - post office , will only grow . even the Post Office must therefore rethink its obligation . through the banking framework that the Post Office have with 30 UK bank and building society , postmaster support over £ 3 billion in withdrawal and deposit each month , provide a trust , convenient face - to - face service at the heart of community . however , large branch such as the one in Newtownards must be leave open if we be truly to have a full service . accord to Age UK , 27 % of over - 65 and 58 % of over - 85 rely on face - to - face banking . nearly a third — 31 % — of people over the age of 65 say they be " uncomfortable " with the idea of bank online . the age sector must be protect , and the way to do that be to require legislatively a well minimum service from bank and post office that be try to fill the gap but be pull back . so what do I want ? I want bank to be require through legislation that they deliver for their customer . I want to ensure that the post office , include the main post office , be in place in my constituency and to see opportunity through credit union . I look to the Minister to outline how the Labour Government will protect access to cash , face - to - face banking and a full - service post office in each area . it have be a pleasure to be part of the debate . I thank the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for bring it forward . it would normally be customary , with so many contributor , to say that there have be a wide range of view , but I do not actually think there have be . there have be a wide degree of unanimity on the fact that banking service in this country be in crisis . the lack of access to banking for many of our constituent right across the country be lead to social exclusion , limit entrepreneurship and have a devastating impact on many of our local economy . I have hear from many hon . and right hon . member that service can not just be replace by online banking , particularly for those who have poor digital connection in their constituency . the difficulty of access banking be a massive problem for those who be reliant on public transport , those who be disabled and those who be elderly or have additional need . it be good to hear how banking hub be make up some of the gap that so many community be experience , but clearly there be a lack of banking hub , and they do not do everything need to close the gap in access cash or loan facility . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s comment on that . the Liberal Democrats be strong champion of their local community . we want to see the reversal of the damage cause to our local economy by the lack of access to banking . one of the thing I call on the Minister to look at be reverse cut to the interchange fee pay to ATM provider , which would go a long way to increase ATM provision in many of our community . the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington give a stark example of what happen when cash run out in certain town centre . More need to be do on digital inclusion because , clearly , digital banking will be part of our future banking provision , and for those who struggle to access it , more can be do to assist they . the Liberal Democrats call on the Government to consider a fair banking Act to look at this problem in the round , to think about bank exclusion not just for individual , family and small community , but for the wide business sector , and to look at what more can be do to connect our community and business . I will close by add my praise to Nationwide for its commitment to maintain banking service on the high street . I be privileged to join my local Nationwide branch in central Richmond just before recess . the branch celebrate 110 year of be on Richmond high street . while I be there , I chat to the local staff , who generously give I some of the birthday cake . many member of the local community be come in to do their banking face to face . it be clear not only that it be good for my constituent to be able to use that face - to - face service , but that the staff get great satisfaction from help customer and be that point of contact in the community . other bank should be make available that sense of satisfaction to more of their staff , and I would like to see more bank make that commitment to community banking . I also congratulate the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) on secure this debate . a great strength of feeling about bank have be evident in this debate , and it be important to remember the importance of bank not just to our community but to the wide economy . bank provide service for business and individual , but they also provide two other fundamental service . first , bank and building society take money from where it have accumulate and distribute it to where it be need for investment in infrastructure , business and job . secondly , bank take overnight deposit and turn they into 25 - year mortgage — so that our constituent can create a home and build a family — which be quite difficult for bank to do . the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington make a couple of important point that I would like to address . the first be about the profit that bank make , and the second be about the policing of bank and the fact that bank apparently police themselves . follow the 2008 financial crisis , there be obviously a huge number of problem in the banking system . the Financial Services Act 2012 create two regulator , the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority , both of which — and particularly the PRA — be responsible for make sure that our banking system be sound . bank need to have strong balance sheet , and to do that they need to make profit to a certain extent . I agree that some of those profit look obscene , and perhaps some bank could put some of that money back into our community . none the less , if bank spend their money unwisely , we potentially run the risk of another banking crisis . along with the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Pat McFadden ) , I be one of only two member leave in this House who sit on the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards from 2013 to 2015 . our work on that commission underline the importance of bank in modern life , about which we have hear so much today . the commission find that hold and operate a bank account be now essential to participate in society and the economy , whether it be receive wage , pay bill or access benefit . but we also find that people ' s view on bank be shape by their direct experience . the more a person know their bank , the more likely they be to have confidence in it . that mean that if bank want to retain their customer , they must provide good , wide - range service . an inability to access banking service risk erode that trust and confidence , as we have hear today , especially among the most vulnerable . do my hon . friend understand that people be very angry about bank closure , and about the fact they feel that the bank just do not listen to they when they go through some consultation exercise ? that be why in Moffat , at 2 pm tomorrow , there will be a protest outside the closing Bank of Scotland . I agree 100 % . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . let we be clear that the decline of our high street and the decline of bank branch have run concurrently as behaviour have change over the last couple of decade and retail activity have increasingly move online . bank be , of course , commercial entity , and their decision to close branch be often drive by commercial imperative , which be not necessarily what we want to hear in this debate . fall footfall , the rise of digital banking and the need to be cost - effective be just some of those reason . as we have hear so often , there be now just 3 , 000 bank branch remain in the UK , and that number be expect to drop even far in come year . ATM number , especially free - to - use machine , have also decline . only 14 % of payment in the UK be make with cash in 2022 , and withdrawal from the Link network be down 50 % on pre - covid level . the clue be in the phrase " banking service " . it be about provide a service to people . as the hon . member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) say , bank dignify community too . this be about personal interaction , trust and building relationship . that be what we do when we go into a bank , and we could never do that in the same way online . my right hon . friend make a good point . this be about face - to - face relationship , not something do through an app . behind the statistic I cite be real people and real community . the digitally exclude , old people , those in poor health and people with low financial resilience mostly rely on cash . small business and rural community be hard hit . the question for member who want to compel bank to keep branch open be how much digital - first customer should be charge to retain loss - make branch — notwithstanding , of course , that profit question . of course , the answer can not simply be to do nothing and to walk away from our responsibility to those who be leave behind . the previous Government recognise the importance of maintain essential banking service as a foundation for public confidence in this sector . through the post office network , we provide a system of free and convenient access to banking service , and the banking framework partnership between the Post Office and over 30 of the UK ' s bank and building society mean consumer and business can access basic banking service through the post office network . the Post Office now have more branch than all the bank and building society combine , and accord to the Financial Conduct Authority , post office branch make up more than 66 % of all branch - base cash access point in the UK . the last government also introduce banking hub , which we have hear a great deal about . I be conscious of time , and I do not want to incur your wrath , Madam Deputy Speaker , so although I have a lot more to say , I think it would be prudent for I to step aside and allow the Minister to face up to the passion about this issue from member represent their community . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate . I want to thank and to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) on bring forward this important debate , which be heavily subscribe across the House . he highlight the need of his constituent , particularly the elderly , the vulnerable and the disabled . my hon . friend the Members for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) and for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) , and the hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) and for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) all stress the importance of in - person service , particularly for vulnerable constituent . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) and for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) , the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) and the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) on secure banking hub in their constituency — in the case of my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales , two banking hub be soon to open , as I understand it . other Members speak about their campaign to secure banking hub , include my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) — who be apparently expect a call from one such bank — and the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) . my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) and the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about the importance of access to cash and banking service in rural area . will the Minister give way ? I do not have very long leave , I be afraid . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare rightly stress the importance of these service in urban area as well . I will not go through all of they , but we hear lot of really good speech on both side of the House and a surprising degree of consensus , which be not always the case . it be interesting to see the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) and my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington so closely align , which be not something I expect . through the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , the last Government legislate to protect reasonable access to cash , give the Financial Conduct Authority new power to ensure that community could both withdraw and deposit cash . the Government recognise that the ability to access cash and in - person banking support remain essential for many , particularly in rural area and for vulnerable people , which be why we have secure the industry ' s commitment to roll out 350 banking hub by the end of this Parliament , ensure that access to face - to - face banking be protect . over 220 have be agree , and more than 160 be open . banking hub be a voluntary initiative by bank as part of meet their access to cash obligation , as legislate for in FSMA . many member have ask the Government to demand that Link review its assessment procedure , but it be worth remind colleague that the process for decide where hub be need be independently determine by Link , the operator of the UK ' s large ATM network . the Government be not minded to review the legislation pass by the previous Government . a number of member — include the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway , who mention this to I yesterday as well — talk about ATMs ' lack of reliability . I have do a little bit of work on that , and Link assure I that it take a hard line with its member over the functionality of atm . however , I urge member to raise these issue with I , so that I can raise they with Link . I be soon to meet John Howells , the chief executive of Link , and I will feed back the concern that member have raise today about how Link apply its criterion . I know that this be not necessarily the conclusion to the speech that member be hope for , but we think it be important that local community have access to cash and banking service , which be why our Government be commit to roll out 350 banking hub across the country . I call Ian Lavery to wind up very briefly . with the leave of the House , I will simply say a very brief thank you to the Backbench Business Committee for allow the debate , and to everybody who have participate in it . what my hon . friend the Minister just say be exactly right . I be someone who have be criticise by Opposition Members as a left - wing dinosaur — I wear it as a badge of honour — but that would hardly be say of my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . People should recognise that when someone with my politic and someone with her politic absolutely agree with everything that have be say , there be surely something wrong . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the importance of banking facility to local community and express concern over the precipitous decline over the past 40 year ; note the change to banking habit through online service ; further recognise that , for vulnerable people , face - to - face banking be a vital service and a reduction of branch risk significant financial exclusion ; far note the impact of a loss of physical banking on small business through lose productivity and lose footfall ; also note the innovative nature of banking hub as a solution to a loss of high street banking , but recognise that Financial Conduct Authority rule for their recommendation be too inflexible ; and call on the Government to instigate a review into the impact on community of bank branch loss and a change to the regulation to ensure community have appropriate access to banking facility . Battery Energy Storage site : safety Regulations this be a subject in which I might have more than a pass interest . I beg to move , that this House recognise the unique challenge pose by lithium - ion fire in battery energy storage site ; and call on the Government to bring forward enforceable national regulation for their design and construction . I have ask for this debate in order to highlight important issue associate with lithium - ion battery when deploy at grid scale . these installation be know as battery energy storage system , or bess . in particular , I be call for clear national regulation that could be apply in the same way in every part of the UK . we need legislation , and I hope that this debate will push the government far along the road to pass it . the UK have set a target to achieve net zero emission by 2050 . to achieve that , many wind and solar farm have be construct and permission be be seek for many more . I fully support the drive towards renewable energy ; the enhance regulation that I be suggest today be intend to secure the industry ' s future , not to create more obstacle . I think it be perfectly possible to draw up regulation that will not stand in the way of BESS roll - out , and which in the long term could actually save the industry from a wholly avoidable setback in the event of an accident . bess solve the classic question of what to do when the sun don ' t shine and the wind don ' t blow . they provide a number of highly useful function , include load balancing , peak shaving and energy arbitrage . above all , they make it practical to meet a much large percentage of our national energy need from renewable . however , every energy system carry some kind of risk , and most bess currently use lithium - ion battery technology . in the event of an accident — and soon or later there be always accident — lithium - ion battery catch fire in a different way from other material , in a process know as thermal runaway . it be important to note that most bess now rely on lithium iron phosphate or LFP battery . this chemistry be much more stable than lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide or NMC cell , which be common in consumer use . that mean few incident , but those incident can still be dangerous . in the future , there will undoubtedly be other chemistry , so we need to leave space for innovation . thermal runaway generate very high temperature and require different firefighting method . it be usually good not to try to put out the fire , but rather to control the spread . firefighter also have to contend with severely toxic gas emission , the risk of an explosion , soil contamination and damage to watercourse . to repeat , I be in no way suggest that battery energy storage system be inherently unsafe . the risk they entail may be different from those of traditional system , but they be perfectly controllable . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern that the location of many of these site be in rural area , which be often serve primarily by retain firefighter ? they be a long way from where specialist firefighting resource would come from , and that do not seem to be take into account fully in the planning process . I appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . I agree that such site can be in remote location where there be few resource . as I will say later in my remark , fire officer training be very much part of what I be recommend . there be a strong case for mandate water - base suppression system , off - gas detection , ventilation system and thermal runaway mitigation as design condition . unfortunately , that be far from the case today . the guideline for planning approval be imprecise and vary across the devolved nation . currently , the burden of responsibility fall on individual local authority planning officer who have no specific training or background in lithium - ion technology — and why on earth would they ? for reason that be hard to understand — perhaps the Minister can explain — fire and rescue service have not be make statutory consultee for planning application . the current guidance state that applicant be " encourage to engage " rather than require to do so , but even compulsory consultation be not enough by itself because the fire service themselves do not always have the expertise . within the last fortnight , Henry Griffin , Suffolk ' s deputy chief fire officer ask for fire service to be give new power , say : " I ' d like to see a power that be akin to a regulatory order like those for a commercial property , where we would have the power to enforce safety measure on those site . " he explain that the fire service be currently just a " contributing partner " , able to give " direction and professional advice " , but not necessarily to require what it might like . the result be inconsistency , which be destructive both of public trust and of the success of the industry . in my own constituency of Horsham , the local planning authority have reject a BESS application , while a similar site , just half a mile away , across the border in Mid Sussex , have win approval . such inconsistency show alarming parallel with Grenfell . the Grenfell disaster be the end result of many failing by both individual and company , but at heart it be a failure of regulation . the rule leave thing wide open for exploitation by cost - cut developer , which be exactly what happen . just as with lithium - ion battery , a new technology — in that case clad — be be use at scale for the first time , without proper understanding of the risk . the time to act be now because the number of BESS application be expand exponentially . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . he be right to highlight the issue around lithium - ion battery and thermal runaway ; we be all remind of explosion and fire in Liverpool in 2019 and in Kilwinning , in Scotland , in 2025 . he refer to the need for legislation for the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but that need to start here . be it his intention to ask the Minister to confirm in her response that that will happen , so that the legislation can then fan out to Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales ? the hon . Gentleman be well acquainted than I be with the way that devolution work , but yes , I hope that the Minister will be able to set out whatever course of action be require to get to that point . it be essential that we build battery energy storage site to proper safety standard so that we do not find ourselves face the need for a massively more expensive retrofit , with consequence for the entire energy network . what accident have there be so far ? in September 2020 , a fire at a BESS site in Liverpool create a significant blast and take 59 hour to extinguish . Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service say that the blaze on Carnegie Road " appear to be the first significant fire of its type to occur within the UK " . however , this be only a small BESS , with just four container and a modest 20 MWh output in total . in common with the hon . Gentleman , I welcome renewable energy . safety be hugely important . in my constituency there be lot of battery site that be be place in pocket around beautiful little village because there be connection to the national grid . because of the potential fire hazard and possible toxic run - off into local river , do the hon . Gentleman agree that we should prioritise brownfield site as oppose to such pocket around pretty little village ? the issue of site choice be closely associate with grid capacity , so that be a factor . that be why some of these site be end up in otherwise somewhat improbable and very un - industrial setting . rule around the pollution of watercourse be one of the most important measure to be bring in , and a wide discussion of land use be go on that could help with that . there be another accident in February this year . essex firefighter deal with a fire at a BESS project that be still under construction and therefore not even operate at full power . the most serious incident internationally , which cause serious injury , be in McMicken , Arizona in 2019 . as a result , America , along with Germany , have some of the most effective BESS protocol in the world , which I think could be copy . overall , BESS fire be high risk in their impact but low in incidence . the Faraday Institution estimate that only one in 40 million battery cell will experience failure result in fire . that be an exceptionally high standard of safety , but there be million of battery , so there will be accident — and , of course , in a BESS scenario one battery can trigger another . Grenfell be one fire in one building , yet the ramification continue today . it have leave we with the huge cost of retrofit large number of high - rise building across the UK build with similar cladding method . even a single failure can therefore undermine an entire industry if it turn out to be the result of a systemic mistake in design . the UK ' s regulatory approach to BESS safety relie on performance - base regulation such as the Regulatory Reform ( Fire Safety ) Order 2005 and the Building Regulations 2010 . they place the responsibility on the responsible person — the site owner — to ensure that adequate safety measure be in place , but they lack specific provision tailor to bess . too much reliance be be place on individual owner to mark their own homework . the National Fire Chiefs Council provide guidance for the fire and rescue service , but that need to be more comprehensive and update constantly in line with change in technology if it be to serve a proper regulatory purpose . on fire response regulation , recent change to the International Electrotechnical Commission standard suggest a global shift towards mandatory water - base suppression and proactive risk mitigation , but that have not yet be echo in UK law . there be also the environmental impact . the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and the Water Resources Act 1991 provide a general framework for manage environmental impact but , again , they do not specifically address the challenge pose by BESS fire . exist regulator do not seem to know whose responsibility this should be . in a recent application for a solar park at Cleve Hill in Kent , which include battery storage , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero state that the Health and Safety Commission should be consult on safety advice , but the HSC itself say that comment on battery safety management plan be not in its remit . that confusion be not exactly reassuring . it be important to note that if the battery themselves be not manufacture in the UK , the Government have limit scope to regulate . however , because battery be produce under controllable factory condition , their failure rate be low . the focus of UK regulation should instead be on the process that can happen in this country , especially the design of the battery container and the overall site . I understand from the Electricity Storage Network , which be the industry group for electricity storage in Great Britain , that it be currently talk to official at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about a new permitting system . it be also talk to the British Standards Institution about lay down new standard for design and emergency response . however , the Government have respond to all question from myself and other say that they consider the present regulatory regime to be " robust " . I be tempt to say that pride come before a fall . in the last few week , a spokesperson for the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero have state : " battery fire at storage site be rare in the UK . we already have high safety standard in place that require manufacturer and industry to ensure battery be safe throughout their lifespan . " that be just too complacent . fire as a result of cladding be also incredibly rare , but that do not save 72 life at Grenfell . I and other have be ask for action for some time , but so far without success . it feel like the message still be not get through . it be very concern that many question be pass from Department to Department , with no one seem to be sure exactly whose responsibility it be . because of inadequate regulation , some BESS unit have already be fit with inappropriate fire suppression technique , which might actually make the problem bad , but they be instal in good faith by operator look to do the right thing . why be the Government so reluctant to act ? I hope that the Minister will explain . perhaps the Government be worried that regulation would slow down the planning process , but I would argue that clear rule will actually make life easy for planning officer and councillor . currently , they have to grapple with a complex technical subject for the first time each time — that be too much to ask of non - expert . I far suggest that it would be easy to win public consent if there be more clarity and consistency . perhaps the Government fear stifle innovation in a new and rapidly change industry . I wholly agree that any regulation need to be carefully draft and have sufficient flexibility . any guidance need to cover a number of area , include the transportation of battery to the site , design and construction , firefighting , ongoing inspection and decommissioning . in the short term , if the Government be — for any reason — still reluctant to regulate , perhaps they could issue clear national guideline that be capable of be update annually . enforcement might then take place through the insurance industry , which would be likely to insist that any new application follow such guideline . as no project can go ahead without insurance , this would be enforcement by the back door . Grenfell be a wholly predictable tragedy . a similar fire at Lakanal House in Camberwell , which kill six people , should have make we understand the risk , but that warning be not heed and history take its course . we can not go back in time to stop Grenfell , but we can act now to avoid make the same mistake again with battery energy storage system . rise — member will be able to see how many be stand . I do not intend to put a formal time limit on , but if member can keep their contribution below five minute , everybody will just about squeeze in . first of all , I support the fact that there be a debate on this issue , and I support some of the point that the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) have just make . it be clear that technology be move fast , and when it do , it be essential that public authority move even fast so that we feel properly secure and protect . I do not think we be quite there yet , and it be clear that there be different pattern of operation by public authority in different part of the country . we need an overall pattern . I also agree that we do not want to turn our back on this new technology . it be very important that we continue to transform our energy provision across the country as a whole , but the fact of the matter be that the fire that occur from time to time pose serious problem for fire authority . those authority should take a central role in any national conversation about this matter . Guidance from the National Fire Chiefs Council say that at least 1 , 900 litre of water per minute be need to try to control a fire once it get start . that be an incredible amount of water to deliver , and many site simply can not deliver it , although they seem to be make progress in some case . the Government have say that there have not be many fire , but there have be quite a few . the one in Liverpool that the hon . member for Horsham mention burn for a substantial period of time — 59 hour — and there be one in California that last for five day . there have be three other fire in the UK this year , and we be only halfway through the year . when the fire authority be try to eliminate a fire , it be obviously complex , but it can lead to pollutant go into the ground and into watercourse , which itself be very dangerous . it have be show that in Liverpool , when the smoke from the fire be spray by water , it produce hydrochloric acid that be distribute through the community — obviously , not a very healthy thing to have . additionally , toxic fume be create , which travel a long way . will the hon . member give way ? I will , but quickly . the hon . Member be make an excellent speech . he refer to the pollution of watercourse ; in my constituency , the salmon fishing industry be hugely important to tourism and the local economy , so that could be a disaster wait to happen . I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and take his point entirely . some authority have suggest that a two - mile radius be need if a fire start . People need to keep their window and door close while the fume be in the air , as there be a risk of child , elderly people and other breathe they in . in my constituency , there be two application in place , both in beautiful part of Yorkshire . in Heath , which be regard as one of the crown jewel of Wakefield , there be a proposal for a large battery storage provision . hundred of people object to it . the chief fire officer say : " the risk of vapour cloud , thermal runaway and explosion be unfortunately very real and be become more common as we see an increase " in battery storage . he talk about choice be give to the fire authority , in whether they allow the fire to just burn itself out , with the risk of pollution of the atmosphere , or whether they attempt to tackle it . to control a fire at the site in Heath would require million of litre of water in a 24 - hour period . it be almost impossible to deliver that level of water and , anyway , what happen to the million of litre of water use to try to eliminate such a fire ? there be a second proposal in Old Snydale , a beautiful village in my constituency . it be a one - road village , and the people who live there work hard or have work hard . the propose site will be almost next to the village , and there be no road access or egress . I do not know how the fire engine and other emergency service would get in . the proposal be completely inappropriate , but the two community of Heath and Old Snydale be sit there with planning application in place and the fire officer express great worry about the risk of potential fire and how they will control it . without national guidance and proper regulation that be sensitive to the prospect of fire , our local planning officer be have to reinvent the wheel , as be other planning officer in other authority . I support the point make by the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) in introduce this debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) not just on secure this debate , but on give it such a wide - range and thoroughly comprehensive introduction . I be sure that many member would have mention many of the area he discuss in their own way . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I be very good friend , and I know that you have be concern about battery storage plant near the River Test and potential runaway fire that may lead to pollutant go into the river . as you be in your place , you can not comment on that , so I think it important to get that on the record . the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) be focus on some of the planning issue , and that be where I want to go , too . when we look at this debate overall , what we be talk about be a lack of statutory guidance . I want to get on the record immediately that this be not a debate of " forget net zero and forget about renewable . " that be not the debate , and we be not denier along that road , but there be serious concern . the leader of my party have raise those concern and immediately be accuse of be anti net zero . we have to take the concern seriously , because , as the hon . member for Horsham outline , there be change , slowly but surely , in the material be use . nickel manganese , for example , have a vaporisation point of 900 º C . these fire can burn easily over 1 , 000 º C . I want to focus my attention on the fallout . I have a meeting with some soil scientist , among other , from the University of Leeds at a research facility in my constituency . they be involve in all aspect of farming . I ask about research into potential contamination and fallout and what it could mean for soil if there be a fire . they say no such research have really be do , and I think they have a couple of phd idea appear from that . it show that that work have not be do . where have we get to on thermal runaway ? as have be outline , such fire need a huge quantity of water . it be not just about try to do whatever we can to stop the fire spread . I read in the International Fire and Safety Journal about use high - pressure water mist at the starting point , monitor the potential for thermal runaway and try to cool the battery before they get to that stage . equally , if that mist be high pressure enough , it can contain the contaminant around the fire . again , the science around this issue have to be closely manage . as the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth have outline , acid and other thing can be create . we have to be careful about the chemistry , but we do not have any statutory guidance for planning authority . we keep speak about what we need to do with water , so surely it should be a condition of the planning process that there be a main water supply to where such incident be happen . in my constituency , planning application for solar farm and battery storage be pour in . they be be approve and push on , but there be no demand for water supply . these application be for development in the middle of a rural area , on farmland . farmer be be offer a golden egg and tell , " sell we your land , and we will develop solar farm and battery storage . " let I give the example of a planning application for Wetherby service . there be not really any objection or concern about battery , but Leeds city council then approve the development of hundred of house 600 to 700 metre away . as have be outline , no one know how far contamination go . there must be a lot more statutory undertaking for planning authority . I recommend a pause on approve planning application until we fully understand what mitigation could be put in place for disaster , which unfortunately do happen . as the MP for South Cotswolds and an environmental campaigner who have spend decade campaign for climate action , I would like to raise serious concern about the unchecked expansion of BESS facility . early this year , I bring the Climate and Nature Bill to the House because I believe in have a fast , fair and science - lead transition away from fossil fuel , but I also believe in do so properly — safely , transparently and with community at the heart of the process . unfortunately , that be not what we be see in the case of the propose Lime Down solar farm in my constituency . the Lime Down proposal would industrialise over 2 , 000 acre of rural farmland and introduce a 500 MW battery installation right next to the railway line from London Paddington to south Wales . that be not just a visual or environmental concern , but a serious safety issue . we have already hear a lot about the low risk , but very high consequence , of a fire at such a facility . if such a fire be to break out , the consequence would be devastating for both infrastructure and public safety . member have already refer to many example of fire that have take place , so I will not repeat they , but I want to emphasise that the location of battery storage facility be absolutely crucial . right now , there be no national safety regulation tailor to good technology . there be no requirement for thermal containment , no mandatory fire suppression and no clear guidance for local planner . under the Government ' s new Planning and Infrastructure Bill , BESS project would be remove from national oversight altogether , pile even more responsibility on to under - resource local authority . that do not look like thoughtful climate planning ; it be a top - down proposal on a massive scale , with too many unanswered question and too little engagement with the people who live nearby . despite the obligatory consultation , resident close to Lime Down feel understandably overlook in a process that should prioritise both safety and consent . we should look closely at the company behind Lime Down . the developer , Island Green Power , be now fully own by Macquarie bank , a global investment firm with a track record that should give we all pause for thought . during its time lead the consortium that run Thames Water , Macquarie extract billion in dividend while let infrastructure crumble and river fill with sewage . it be an asset management company . its job be to make money , and it do it well . it be not a public utility company . it be not interested in home - grow , community - lead energy ; it be interested in profit . it be not here to protect the beauty of the british countryside or to invest in long - term sustainability . its business model be simple : build big , move fast and maximise return , whatever the cost to people , nature or public trust . we need a well alternative . instead of hand vast development to multinational with sketchy record , we should be invest in community - own energy project — initiative that be more resilient , more trusted and far well suit to rural area such as South Cotswolds . project such as Westmill Solar and the Low Carbon Hub have show how community can lead the way on clean energy , cut emission while boost local economy . let we not confuse scale with ambition . our net zero future should be safe , smart and fair , not shape by the profit margin of distant shareholder . we can and must do well if we be go to get to net zero without alienate the public and drive they into the arm of campaigner who would do away with the net zero enterprise altogether . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on bring forward this important debate . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in it , because this be a matter of considerable concern to the many rural community in the Mid Buckinghamshire constituency , particularly give the safety risk pose by battery energy storage system . let I be clear from the outset : this be a debate not about the principle of energy storage , although I be in principle oppose to such scheme take agricultural land and challenge our food security , but about — and this be deeply concern and the House must urgently address it — the real , grow and too often overlook safety implication of these installation , particularly when place in close proximity to village and rural road network that be ill - equipped to support they . the most pressing risk , and one that have already lead to devastation elsewhere , be the danger of thermal runaway , as other have say . these be not hypothetical risk ; they be document , real - world event . in Merseyside , a fire at a battery site in 2020 cause an explosion that shake nearby home and require a major emergency service response . in Arizona , a BESS fire lead to an explosion that seriously injure eight firefighter , and in Belgium , a BESS fire burn for over a week and force the evacuation of nearby business . these system contain highly reactive lithium - ion battery . when one cell fail — often due to manufacturing defect , overheating or damage — it can cause a chain reaction across the entire installation , release toxic gas , generate intense heat and create a fire that can not be extinguish with conventional method . in rural area , where response time may be slow and firefighte resource more limited , the consequence could be catastrophic . in my constituency of Mid Buckinghamshire , we be increasingly see application for these industrial - scale storage site in rural setting near home , farm , school , conservation area , watercourse and river . these be often justify in the name of green energy , but resident rightly ask : green for whom and safe for whom ? it be not just the risk of fire ; the cumulative impact of associated infrastructure — substation , cabling , transformer enclosure — often mean mile of narrow rural road be tear up by heavy good vehicle , with last safety implication . road that be never design for such weight and volume be leave with pothole , uneven surface and subsidence . for local motorist , cyclist , pedestrian and horse rider , or schoolchildren walk along rural lane , this pose a daily and wholly unnecessary danger . I have receive multiple report from parish council , resident and emergency service who be concerned that the access route use for construction and maintenance of these site be not fit for purpose . my constituent in the Claydons and in Little Missenden be at risk from convoy of lorry , with junction visibility reduce , verge destroy and road surface degrade if BESS project plan for those area go ahead . should an emergency arise at the site itself , one have to ask : would a fire engine or ambulance even be able to reach it safely and quickly ? could the fire service even attempt to deal with such a fire ? that be why I be pleased that Buckinghamshire Council reject a 500 MW site in the Claydons last year . I trust that other speculative developer , such as the one plan a site just outside Little Missenden , will take note and spare my constituent from these unacceptable fire risk and road safety risk . we must take a more precautionary approach . at the very least , the Government should introduce clear national guideline on the siting of BESS installation , include minimum separation distance from residential property , fire resilience standard , mandatory site - specific risk assessment , and restriction on place these facility on or near rural road . I urge the Government and local planning authority to take these concern seriously . safety must never be sacrifice on the altar of speed or ideology , or the first technology that happen to be on the shelf that day . our rural community in particular deserve well protection . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on secure this important debate . some of the new member may not know quite how much I love the geeki possible debate . I have not have as much time since I become SNP Chief Whip , so I can not reach the geeky height manage by the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) in read the International Fire and Safety Journal . I commend he on that , but I want to bring the debate to another geeky level and talk about the mechanism by which the Government should take action . there have be a lot of talk today about plan mechanism and regulation , but I urge the Government to look at health and safety regulation . I be from Aberdeen and a number of year ago we have the Piper Alpha disaster . the Piper Alpha disaster and the Cullen report that come afterwards result in a massive step change in safety . it be a huge , drastic change in how those thing work , with health and safety regulation that apply across the whole of the United Kingdom . planning , for example , be devolve to Scotland and a lot of environmental rule be the preserve of the Scottish Parliament . currently , there be no health and safety rule in this area . the House of Commons Library briefing for this debate state : " there be no law that specifically govern the fire safety of battery energy storage system " . it also state : " there be no specific health and safety law relate to bess . " I have write to the Health and Safety Executive , Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks , the city council and the Scottish Government about this issue . I have do a lot around battery energy storage site . the HSE write back to I say that it be a member of the cross - Government group on battery energy storage , so it be work on that . it have a landing page on its website that bring together some of the regulation of battery energy storage , but most of they be write for the safety of individual battery rather than for the safety of these storage site . that , specifically , be what be miss : the health and safety guidance for battery energy storage site . a number of member have speak about local or UK - wide issue , but across the world there have be 85 fire at battery energy storage site . that be not a small number or a small percentage . this be a risky business . I do not disagree with those who say that these site be necessary . we absolutely need they for our energy system in the future , but they need to be safe . we need regulation in place . we should bring they together , even if it be just the good practice from all different place , to ensure that there be one place where the health and safety guidance be hold . I would be even more flexible than have it update by Parliament . I would give the HSE a level of control over change and flex that guidance , should more good practice come through . again , that would apply across the whole of these island , and I think that would be the good way forward . I want to mention two other thing . first , an early speaker mention that we have extreme weather event — once - in - a - generation event — just about every week at the moment . it be really important that we look at both the extreme temperature and the flooding event that may occur , as flood event at battery energy storage site be an issue ; whether or not there have be a fire in advance of a water leakage , there could still be concern . secondly , I want to talk about the money . a number of people be look at these site with dollar sign in their eye , think , " we can build these thing and make a whole lot of money . " actually , we should be tell the organisation that be create the battery energy storage site that they will need to pay for the fire safety assessment , consult the local fire service , and pay for the training of the local fire team on tackle fire at these site . I think that would be the most reasonable way forward . we should ask they to pay for that training , because it be those organisation that will be make a huge profit from the site . it should not just be the public service that have to train up and increase the number of hour that retain firefighter , perhaps , be work . I think that be really important . I urge the Minister to look at HSE guidance as the method and mechanism for take this on . I have push the Scottish Government to change some of their planning guidance already — particularly around notification of local community council , for example — but that health and safety guidance be , I think , the key place to take action , make that change and bring it together in one place , so that all our constituent be safe as a result . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . I thank the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) for secure it , and for his comprehensive introduction . I would like to talk about this issue in the context of rural constituency such as mine , as many other hon . member have this afternoon . first , farmland be not just another piece of land , but an irreplaceable national asset . the ability to produce food domestically be a fundamental pillar in our sovereignty and our national economic strength . in recent year , we have witness prime agricultural land be convert into sprawl array of energy installation with solar farm , and now we have the increase prevalence of battery energy storage system appear in glorious countryside across the country . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , who be not present , have raise this point comprehensively in the past , as well as safety concern around battery energy storage system and the displacement of good agricultural land for energy production . we be at real risk of displace this good agricultural land and of energy production facility become , in effect , a new cash crop . these facility area incredibly lucrative for farmer who feel stretch — it be very difficult for they to make a living in this challenging economic climate . I be pleased to be support the new clause to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill table by my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills to protect agricultural land in the long term . there be another point I would like to highlight beyond those that have be make by many other member today . we face the exposure of our energy supply chain to foreign country — country that may not share our value — and the long - term depletion of our energy resilience if they manage to embed their infrastructure within our national energy infrastructure in the UK . in Weatheroak in my constituency , we have be battle an energy storage application bang in the heart of north Worcestershire ' s green belt . this glorious countryside will be fundamentally change forever should the application go ahead . I be grateful to Tony Williams , the chairman of Weatheroak resident association , for have write to I on numerous occasion . I have engage with many local resident who share the concern that have be raise today , namely around the proximity of such site to village and the potential danger should there be an accident or incident whereby one of these site catch fire and the sparsely disperse rural fire service be unable to get there . we also have the impact on road , which have be pick up by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) . rural community across the country be face a fundamental change in their identity , at the expense of industrial application that be often grant at ease with little regard to the identity and character of those village . I know that this be a concern that so many of my constituent share . if I have three ask of the Government , they would be : that they pause the granting of battery energy storage system application in the first instance ; that they consider a minimum radius for the proximity to settlement within which application can be grant ; and that they ensure that fire service across the country be statutory consultee in every case where there be an application for a battery energy storage system of any size . as you can see , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have come to the Chamber with a pre - prepare speech , but really everything have already be say . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) for secure this debate . I also want to thank everyone who have contribute — this sound like a wind - up speech , but it be not . whereas normally I would email my speech to people who have approach I on an issue , in this case I will just email the whole debate as it be publish in Hansard , because so many of the concern have be address , flesh out and air . there be proposal in my constituency , way up in the north of Scotland , to have power line from Spittal in Caithness to Lochbuie and Beauly in Inverness — it be massive — and there be lot of application for battery storage system . it do feel as if the technology be race way ahead of the statutory authority of the Scottish and UK Governments and that we be play catch up . we be be leave behind in a cloud of dust , and that worry I enormously . we have hear about the danger of a battery fire — of thermal runaway . in the north of Scotland , where I represent , we be no stranger to extremely cold weather . Alnaharra in my constituency be always the cold place in the winter . cold temperature can affect the battery ; they can change their lifespan and their mix . there be a phenomenon call dendrite , which be a form of crystallisation — especially from lithium — with a tree - like structure . we do not fully understand where it come from . do that play into what the hon . Gentleman be say about try to understand the stability of battery storage ? I , like other , be leave in awe by the diligence of the research that have be carry out by the right hon . member . yes , that be absolutely correct ; we just do not quite know what happen . we have hear that if one battery catch fire , it can ignite fire in other battery , but I will not go over that again . where possibly high - risk infrastructure be propose for a community , we must surely have mitigation . and yes , we should have a complete consultation with the authority and those responsible . in Caithness , we have only five fire station , and they do not have enough personnel , let alone faintly enough water , to tackle such a fire . the authority want to build a battery near the Castle of Mey where the King sometimes stay , but they ain ' t get the troop to sort that one out , absolutely not . I totally endorse what be be say about the Health and Safety Executive . in Scotland it should be HSE , the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency , and the Fire and Rescue Service . I take great heart from what the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) have be say — thank goodness that this be be take seriously . in conclusion , we should not simply forge ahead with this sort of stuff until we know exactly what we be do . to be helpful , I shall namecheck one person . she be a councillor in the highland . she be not a member of my party — member can google she later and find out of which party she be a member . she be call Helen Crawford . she have be bravely stand up say , " I think we need to have a way of structure this that take the community with we , that do not seem that we be impose something from on high . " she be refer to battery , grid improvement and so on . nobody be say that they do not believe in get to net zero , but let we take people with we when we do it . I drop a little hint to the Minister and the colleague of the hon . member for Aberdeen North in Edinburgh that there will be a meeting of a large group of community council on 14 June in inverness - shire . they be reasonable people , and under scottish law , a community council be a statutory consultee on planning matter . I would be very grateful if the Minister would take a look at what come out of that meeting , because I think it will be helpful to both the UK Government and the Scottish Government . let we have renewable energy , but let we get it right . I rise to speak on the loom crisis face we in relation to battery energy storage site . as member have explain , the site be begin to play a large and large role in the transition to green energy source , but at the moment ideology be win the day and pragmatism be disappear . there be over 78 GW of battery capacity that be either operational , await construction have be approve or in the early stage of the planning process . for context , that be enough power to supply nearly 200 million home at once , which be almost 10 time as many as we have in the UK . one of the 1 , 100 installation that be propose but not operational be a battery energy storage site just outside of Grendon in South Northamptonshire . it be part of the wide Green Hill solar farm proposal own by Island Green Power , and I note the comment from the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) on that . this proposal expose how the Government be asleep at the wheel on this issue . the Green Hill BESS be a massive 500 MW site propose for the edge of the town , just a few hundred metre from the centre and next to the beautiful Grendon lake and the River Nene . on the border of a site of special scientific interest , the environmental importance and sensitivity of the site can not be understate . the proposal be likely to come to the local planning authority eventually , which understandably have virtually zero experience in balance the risk and benefit of a large - capacity BESS . the Minister for Housing and Planning write to I this week after I raise with he several of the significant risk that the site pose to resident and the environment . he say that the current regulatory framework be " appropriate , robust and future - proof " . the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) have already allude to this comment . I be sure all member will agree that that sound rather good , but the title of the framework that the Minister speak so highly of be " Health and Safety Guidance : Guidance for Grid Scale Electrical Energy Storage Systems " . unfortunately for the Minister , he have expose exactly what be lack in our approach to bess . our framework for regulate the design , construction , running and decommissioning of these site be simply guidance . we have not grip the potential threat of these site and attempt to mitigate they . thankfully , there be example of where country have face up to the need to recognise the threat . the United States be far along the path of roll out bess than the UK . as we have experience here , they have face large - scale fire , explosion , environmental concern and , understandably , a gap in expertise when it come to the emergency response to the unique challenge . in response , they realise that guidance do not suffice , so they pass , as the Housing and Planning Minister sort of allude to , an " appropriate , robust and future - proof " statutory framework that do simple thing . it require co - ordination with local fire service during the planning process . it specify minimum distance from residential building . it mandate elevation in flood - prone zone , and it enforce the training of the fire department and first responder to give they the expertise that they need . that framework be prescriptive , yes , but when it come to the health of member of the public — health threaten by these site in the way that member have articulate — we must be prescriptive . if we be not careful , much like a fire at a battery energy storage site , a fire will be light that we can not put out , and it will burn and burn . I ask that the Government immediately pause the roll - out of these site until a proper regulatory framework be in place . People in my constituency be worried . they be worry by the constant stream of application for new battery energy storage system in and around the village across the constituency — from Kinver to Swindon , Hinksford , Wombourne , Lower Penn and the edge of Kingswinford . their worry be not exactly alleviate by the response the Prime Minister give to my question last month . he do not give the impression that the Government understand resident ' concern and some of the reason for those concern . low Penn in South Staffordshire be a lovely village with a population of just under 1 , 000 , and it feel like pretty much all of they be in the village hall for the public meeting in February . at least seven battery site have be either approve or propose in or close to that small village . the same be happen in village across South Staffordshire . as I have be sit in the Chamber for this debate , I have receive another email from the planning authority invite I to speak on one these application , which be come through at such a rate . that reflect the position across the country . there be 121 operational battery energy storage system in the United Kingdom , but over 1 , 500 more be in the pipeline , so we really be at a tipping point , but the planning and regulatory system have not yet catch up . that be why we need action . as have be say , such battery have a low failure rate , but sometimes they go wrong , just as they do in mobile phone and electric vehicle . that be why airline tell we we can not charge our mobile phone battery while we be on a flight , and it be why Parliament have decide that electric vehicle can not be charge in the underground car park . it be not because the risk be high ; it be because the consequence of thing go wrong can be catastrophic . whereas a mobile phone may have a capacity of 15 to 18 watt hour and an electric vehicle battery perhaps 80 to 100 kw hour , the site in Tilbury — the site of the fire early this year , which I think the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) refer to — when complete will have a capacity of about 600 mw hour . to put it another way , that site will be the equivalent of 33 million iPhone battery . as we see an increase in these site , we know from basic statistic that there will be more fire on top of those we have already have this year in Tilbury , Cirencester and Aberdeenshire . we therefore need to ensure that our system be properly adapt and modernise to reflect those risk . the risk of a fire be not only about the potential danger to human life — for both those who may be nearby and the firefighter who be send to bring those fire under control over what may be 24 or 48 hour — but about our local natural environment . do my hon . friend agree that one of the issue be that there be no statutory requirement on prevention method that may stop we from get to that disastrous situation in the first place ? my right hon . friend be completely right . part of the problem be that the planning application that come in be often very vague about exactly what lithium ion - type chemical and technology will be use , because they be often make year in advance , and therefore before the product that will be on a site have be acquire . in those circumstance , it be impossible to assess the risk properly . when these fire run for 24 or 48 hour and million of gallon of water be use to bring they under control , the chemical run - off have to go somewhere , and sadly many of these application — include those in my constituency — be for site near to our river and our canal . for example , in Wombourne and Lower Penn there be plan for two battery energy storage site to be erect close to the Staffordshire and Worcestershire canal and the South Staffordshire railway walk . not only be the canal a green corridor through our beautiful countryside — an area of outstanding local beauty — but it be close to the historical Bratch lock and Bratch pumping station . it be a popular site for canal user and angler alike . the consequence of a major fire and the chemical run - off would be devastating for fish stock and other wildlife . the planning and regulatory system must catch up with the reality before all the application be approve and in use , by which time it may be too late . we need the National Fire Chiefs Council to update the guideline , as well as their assessment of battery energy storage system . before that be do , however , we clearly need a minimum distance between battery site and residential property . we need the fire service to be make statutory consultee on planning application for battery energy storage system . furthermore , the Government really must go back and make the change need to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill to ensure that local authority and community have a real and meaningful say on where such system be and be not instal . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be an unpaid director for Reach Community Solar Farm . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on secure this important debate , and on his strong and comprehensive speech support the need for regulation . I have be impress by all the speech from across the House , as well as by the fact that every single one support the motion . I hope the Minister have hear that and will urgently take the action require . I be proud of the Liberal Democrats ' consistent support for green energy and recognise the need for battery energy storage site , so I be deeply worried that current practice cause concern about safety , anger at lack of community involvement and little or no share of the profit come back to the community affect . a prime example of those problem be the vast Sunnica solar farm plan in my constituency , stretch through into West Suffolk . community group and parish , district and county council all oppose the development . their evidence convince the planning inspector to recommend refusal , but within two week of join the Government , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero grant permission . now it be down to the local authority to decide on final detail , include the battery energy storage site for up to 500 MW . the council will have 14 work day from receive detail from the developer to consider whether they need further information , to share the application with consultee , to collate any request for further information and then to return the question to the developer . they must do that without any clear guidance or regulation on battery safety . they be advise to consult the fire service , and the fire service in turn have no battery safety regulation to refer to , just the guidance issue by the national fire chief . it will also be difficult , if not impossible , for meaningful public consultation to be fit into that timetable . the Liberal Democrats be call for local fire service and the Environment Agency to be statutory consultee for bess so that they can advise on make the site safe and on how to manage a fire should one break out . local community also need to be consult , as they know well how the area be use , where the water course run and what wildlife be present . fortunately , as we have hear , BESS fire be rare , but where they occur , they can last for several day . the water use by the firefighter in the Liverpool case combine with the chemical give off by the battery to create hydrofluoric acid . Ely and East Cambridgeshire have many interconnect water course , from drainage ditch through to the River Great Ouse , as well as the internationally important Wicken Fen wetland site and other vital wetland site . if those become contaminate with hydrofluoric acid , the damage to wildlife , especially in our rare chalk grassland , would be enormous . we be also the breadbasket of England . imagine the impact on our farmer and therefore our food supply , not to mention the impact on the horse racing and horse breeding industry . our planning department need clear regulation and relevant statutory consultee , so that they can ensure that bess be instal in the right location and have the necessary boundary , run - off catchment and so on to ensure that the fire risk be minimise and that , in the event of fire , people , crop , soil and nature be protect . DEFRA have state that it will consult in June on integrate bess into exist environmental regulation . I would be grateful if the Minister could let we know when we can expect the consultation to open . many bess be already operate , more have permission and yet more be apply for permission . proper regulation and guidance be therefore urgent . the Liberal Democrats want green energy to replace fossil fuel . green energy reduce fuel poverty , give the UK fuel security and be well for the environment . to be successful and reliable , green energy need battery energy storage site , but those storage site must be safe , and that require Government regulation and guidance and make local fire service and the Environment Agency statutory consultee . I call the shadow Minister . I be pleased to close the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , and I hope to give a voice to your constituent , Madam Deputy Speaker , give the interest in this important subject in Romsey and Southampton North . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on secure the debate and make such a comprehensive speech . he be even wise enough to quote the fire expert from the county that matter most — by which I obviously mean Suffolk . the fact that there be such clear theme from member across the House and across the divide of the House — right and leave , net zero enthusiast and sceptic — show that we be deal with an undeniable problem that the Government have not yet grip . there be a clear consensus across the House , from my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) to the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , that there be a total absence of regulation with this risky technology . there be also agreement , from the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) to my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , about the effect of the policy on the countryside , such as on the availability of good farmland and on rural road , as well as the challenge of fire service response time in the country . the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) and for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) make the point that BESS fire can have serious effect on our precious river . I also want to single out the speech by the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , who draw attention to the dodgy finance of a lot of the firm behind a lot of these application . that be something we need to investigate far . there be broad agreement on the suggestion make by my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) that these battery site should not be allow to go ahead until a proper system of regulation be introduce . I be afraid that I be go to breach the cross - party love - in by pick up on what my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) say about ideology . the Government be bet on battery energy storage system thank to their ideological aim to decarbonise the entire grid within five year , therefore choose to depend on unreliable , intermittent and expensive renewable . that be the root cause of the dependence on the technology we be debate . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) can intervene if he wish . it be the consequence of the zeal of the Energy Secretary that we be debate these subject . thank to net zero policy cost , which be relevant more than wholesale gas price , Britain already have the high energy cost in Europe . push policy to run fast than technology will allow risk a crisis in the grid and in our economy . as someone who work in the energy industry for five year before come to this place , I would appreciate some honesty in recognise that the application the hon . Gentleman have just reference have be in the pipeline for a lot long than the Labour Government have be in power . the hon . member will note the enthusiasm and ideological zeal of the Energy Secretary , which begin , I think , in his very first week when he come to this House and announce that he be impose masse of solar farm on part of the country and , in the case of the solar farm in my constituency , completely disregard the independent expert examine authority . that be a clear difference between the two government we be discuss . Mass solar be inefficient and produce less power even than wind , which have a high load factor — between 10 % and 11 % for solar , between 22 % and 28 % for onshore wind , and between 30 % and 38 % for offshore wind . and that be wind , which be unreliable in itself . the comparison worsen next to nuclear , as it would take 8 . 5 million solar panel , take up at least 10 , 000 acre of often top - quality farmland , to produce enough power to match an average reactor . to the surprise of no one , the World Bank say we be one of the country with the " least generous condition " for pv . indeed , we rank higher only than Ireland . battery and solar panel also expose we to dependence on China , which produce more than 80 % of the world ' s solar panel . many be make with slave labour , and perhaps all contain kill switch control by Beijing . while an amendment to the GB Energy Bill be pass to ban the Government ' s new quango from use slave - make import , it do not apply to private sector purchase . so much for end our dependence on foreign dictatorship and human right abuser . so much for our energy security . giant solar fail even on its own term , because it be four time more carbon - intensive than wind and nuclear . apart from biomass , solar be the most polluting of all renewable . as this debate have show , there be very real safety concern about the battery site that we must address . these battery site pose a public safety risk that the Government be simply ignore . with 150 BESS site already in operation , and with well over 1 , 000 planning application in the pipeline , as my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) note , this need to be confront as a matter of urgency . build these site and try to deal with the safety question later be reckless , expensive and dangerous . when a fire start at a BESS site , highly toxic emission be release into the air . they include chemical such as hydrogen fluoride , heavy metal and carcinogen , force people to stay indoor . these fire do not need oxygen to keep burn , so they can last for week . they can be reignite easily , and the health effect of exposure to these gas be a major concern . just look at the fire in Liverpool four year ago , which several member cite . it take 59 hour to put out . in answer to my write question , the Government have confirm that no environmental impact assessment have be make of that incident , so no lesson be be learn . and this year we have see fire at battery site near Rothienorman in Aberdeenshire , and in East Tilbury in Essex . I have repeatedly raise fire safety directly with Ministers , but no satisfactory answer have be give . the Government have make no assessment of the adequacy of fire service near battery site . there be minimal oversight from the Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency . the National Fire Chiefs Council recommend a minimum distance of 25 metre between grid - scale battery and occupy building , but it be only guidance and there be no statutory requirement to maintain this distance . as the Liverpool fire prove , a major blaze can affect people over a much wide area anyway . we need clear involvement from the fire and rescue service in the planning application process for battery site , look at concern around construction , fire safety and retrofitting . Henry Griffin from Suffolk Fire and Rescue Service have describe battery site as an " emerge risk " , say : " there can be complication with vapour cloud and fire will last a long time . " fire service have no legal power to enforce safety measure on battery site . we need legislation and resident need a say . Sunnica be one of the big solar and battery farm in the country , as mention by my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) , and it have be impose on our constituent by the Energy Secretary . three day after enter office , the Energy Secretary approve the application , overrule the advice of examine authority and , quite clearly from his answer to my question , he have not read the evidence — breach his quasi - judicial responsibility . Sunnica will cover over 2 , 500 acre of prime agricultural land across West Suffolk and East Cambridgeshire . three battery site will be build , and the whole project will actually increase carbon emission . Sunnica have treat resident with contempt and use consultant who specialise in questionable assessment of the quality of farmland . Sunnica be also locate very close to the RAF basis at Mildenhall and Lakenheath , which host the US air force , and many service personnel live in the area . we believe Russia have already target those basis with drone recently , and the director general of MI5 say that arson and sabotage be part of the russian modus operandi in european country . to approve Sunnica without assess this very serious danger be grossly negligent . rush towards mass solar and battery farm like this be an act of ideological irresponsibility . it be bad energy policy , reduce our energy security while increase the cost of energy for family and business . it ' s exactly what you do ! order . the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) might like to read the handbook on how parliamentary private Secretaries should behave . it be not their job to be hear . if he wish to contribute to a debate on a policy area , perhaps he should resign his position and return to the Back Benches . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if the hon . member for Ipswich be more confident in his argument , he might want to stand up and take part . as I be say , it be bad energy policy , reduce our energy security while increase the cost of energy for family and business . it be bad farming policy because it put some of our good agricultural land beyond use , and as this debate have show , it be bad for public safety , because the Government , in their haste and zeal , want to ignore the very serious danger these battery bring . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on secure this debate and on his thoughtful and informed speech . I thank all member for raise this incredibly important issue . let I reassure they and this House that the Government appreciate all the concern that have be raise . there be no complacency , and we be take a responsible approach to the deployment of grid - scale battery , which be an essential part of deliver clean energy . we be very clear that increase the amount of clean , renewable electricity generate , store and use in the UK will improve our energy security . it will bring down bill for consumer in the long term by reduce our reliance on fossil fuel market , which be volatile . it will create job , and it will tackle the climate and nature crisis , which we must do for future generation . we be committed to deliver clean power by 2030 , and it be reassure to hear support for that ambition from member across the House , with the disappointing exception of the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , who have adopt a pretty impressive skill of rewrite history and forget his own Government ' s shoddy legacy on this . in the clean power action plan , the Government outline that 23 GW to 27 GW of grid - scale battery storage could be require by 2030 . I understand that many member here today be concerned that this come at the expense of health and safety , but let I reassure they that that be absolutely not the case . I acknowledge that there have be a number of incident at battery site , in 2025 in particular , and this have raise legitimate concern . we hear those concern and understand they , and member be right to raise they with Government . however , it be incredibly important for I to stress — and reiterate a point that have be make by other member — that the risk associate with grid - scale battery be relatively small and well understand , that there be robust measure in place for manage those risk , and that Government be already take further step to address some of the issue that have be raise . the Minister know that I be as passionate about clean , green energy as she be and that flexibility will be key to ensure cheap bill for customer , but that be why it be vital that we give the public confidence in system like BESS . will she reassure I that the Government recognise that we must give the public confidence , so that we can ramp up the energy infrastructure need to achieve the target she have outline ? I will absolutely reassure my hon . friend . we understand that we must maintain public confidence and that we need a robust framework in place . fire service be devolve to the Scottish Government . I do not think that the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) would disagree that co - ordination on this matter between the devolved Administrations and the UK Government , so that we be singe off the same hymn sheet , be crucial . we recognise that there need to be co - ordination , but first , let I take the framework that be in place . it be often claim that there be no regulation in this sector because there be no specific law address battery safety . that be simply untrue . the safety and standard of battery be assure throughout their life cycle . the Government be therefore confident that the safety risk pose by grid - scale battery be relatively small and well manage . I will take each aspect of this matter in turn , begin with the planning regime . planning practice guidance encourage battery storage developer to engage with local fire and rescue service before submit a planning application , so that the issue relate to site and location that hon . member have raise be deal with before an application be make . I think there be scope to strengthen the process and build on it in order to address some of the issue that have be raise . let I come to the crux of the regulatory regime for grid - scale battery : the health and safety law , oversee by the Health and Safety Executive . the fundamental principle of health and safety law be that those who create risk be well place to control it . operator of grid - scale battery site be expect to assess the specific situation and implement the necessary control measure . of particular relevance be the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 , the dangerous Substances and Explosive Atmospheres Regulations 2002 , the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989 and the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 . together , that framework put in place protection against some of the issue that have be raise , but I take the point that the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) raise — that there be scope to think about how we bring this together in a way that be accessible and enforceable , and ensure that the underlie provision and protection that be bake into legislation be well understand by the sector . to complement the exist health and safety framework , the Government will consult later this month , to answer the question on the timescale , on whether to include battery in the environmental permitting regulation , to provide further safeguard and assurance . environmental permitting will provide for the ongoing inspection of battery site , give additional assurance that appropriate mitigation be maintain throughout the project ' s life cycle . critically , the environmental permitting regulation make it an offence to operate a regulated facility without a permit , or in breach of the condition of that permit . we will consult on the principle and then work with industry , local government and key stakeholder in order to develop the detail . if we get it right , that should go a long way to address many of the concern that have be raise . when the government do the research on mitigation that the Minister talk about , I gently suggest that they lie down in statute the minimum mitigation facility that will be expect to be satisfied in planning application . at the moment , there be no statutory outline for what mitigation must be put in place . inspection be great , but we be not actually inspect anything from a statutory point of view . I encourage she to ensure that the result of the research be that applicant have it lay out for they what mitigation need to be in place . we will consult , and work with a host of party to ensure that we get this right . as my hon . friend the Member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) say , we have an interest in ensure that the public feel complete confidence as we put forward this technology , and as we agree site across the country . let I respond to the specific point that be raise by a number of hon . member on the proximity to residential area . it be true that there be no mandated minimum distance between BESS site and occupy building , but the National Fire Chiefs Council guidance recommend a distance of at least 25 metre . we can look at how we can build on that go forward . the one thing that I hope everyone take away be that the Government understand the concern that have be raise , and that Members ' constituent be raise . we believe that there be a clear health and safety framework in place that we can build on , and we be intent on build on it . we will continue to work to strengthen the guidance and process that be in place so that we can ensure that we have the confidence of the public . we believe that this be a crucial part of how we get to net zero , but as hon . member have say , we must do it in a way that ensure the safety of the public . that be a priority for we , as it be for all member of this House . I thank the Minister for her response and all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . wherever we stand on renewable energy , we can all agree that we must have the high possible safety standard — that be an absolute give . from the conversation I have have with industry , clear national guidance would be widely welcome because what we have now be not feel to be sufficient . what industry most want be clarity , so any rule can be integrate from the start , at the design stage , when the cost impact be minimal . regulation be clearly a live issue in many constituency with so many application across the country , as member have say . however , everything be progress in a random and unco - ordinate way . the fact that the Government do not know which Department should answer question on the subject be reveal . I be concerned that Parliament do a weak job of scrutiny on niche subject like this one because they be so technical . we be currently place part of that responsibility on the shoulder of local councillor and council officer , who can not possibly have the relevant expertise . in her remark , I notice that the Minister be still use the term " encourage " in relation to consult with local fire officer . that be not enough as such consultation should be mandate and I be disappointed not to hear that there will be mandatory consultation , which be what we all want . I stress again that incident will be rare , but a single incident can bring down an industry . I hope that the Minister will not make the same mistake that be make over clad regulation : let we make this a tragedy that never happen . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the unique challenge pose by lithium - ion fire in battery energy storage site ; and call on the Government to bring forward enforceable national regulation for their design and construction . Petition - Reform of Planning System I rise to present a petition , alongside a corresponding online petition , sign by hundred of my constituent in North East Hertfordshire , demand a planning system that put people and nature before profit . the root cause of the housing crisis be the flawed developer - lead model that fail to deliver affordable home and manufacture a false conflict between housing and nature . the Government must put council back in the drive seat , with the funding and tool to build genuinely affordable home within sustainable community . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to reform the Planning and Infrastructure Bill so it deliver for both worker and wildlife , redefine affordable housing base on local income , ensure developer deliver on their housing promise , protect irreplaceable habitat like Chalk Streams and uphold local democracy in the planning system . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the planning system should put people and nature before profit . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reform the Planning and Infrastructure Bill so it deliver for both worker and wildlife , redefine affordable housing base on local income , ensure developer deliver on their housing promise , protect irreplaceable habitat like Chalk Streams and uphold local democracy in the planning system . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003081 ] Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) it be a privilege to rise to move this Adjournment debate about application to the afghan relocation and assistance policy , which have come to be know as the ARAP scheme . I intend to raise a deeply troubling case that highlight serious and systemic failing in the operation of ARAP . those failing have very real and potentially fatal consequence for real human being who serve we , and who be now in fear of their life . importantly , I will ask the Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , to reconsider the whole process . the individual to whom I be about to refer play a crucial role in save british life during our operation in Afghanistan . he support our troop and our mission , often at immense personal risk to he and his family , yet it seem that he have be abandon by we . when we consider that we have give so much to Afghanistan — build a new Government , a new freedom and some democracy — I think the west run away from Afghanistan be an act that shame we all deeply , as be the fact that those who serve we and clearly put their life at risk have be brush aside . it do not matter who be in power or which Government it be : I say simply that that be — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) thank you for that , Madam Deputy Speaker — that have give I a few more minute . the ARAP scheme be introduce to provide a lifesaving path to safety for afghan national who directly support the UK ' s mission in Afghanistan . at its core , it be a moral and strategic obligation . these individual risk their life work for UK force , and I believe the UK must duly protect they . the Government be right at the time to introduce the scheme , and it be important to acknowledge that it have achieve something . however , in practice , I believe the scheme have fall dramatically short both morally and logistically . many eligible Afghans be still strand under Taliban rule and fear for their life , which highlight the failure in the scheme ' s execution . I be grateful to the right hon . member for bring forward this debate . wait for more than three year to hear about the outcome must be absolute torture for those who serve in Afghanistan and support we . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on afghan woman and girl , I be email by people wait for resettlement through ARAP and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme who want update that I can not give they . do he agree that the Minister need to review the communication give to outstanding applicant to ensure that they be give update in a timely manner ? indeed . the hon . Lady be right in raise those point . the fact be that this scheme do not fit the requirement any long , and I think it be , in many sense , quite brutal and inhumane . I will deal with a couple of the problem here , then I will deal with a personal case . first , the scheme be utterly slow and bureaucratic . I will say to the Minister from the start that this debate be not party political ; it be very much about a scheme that we bring in and that the Government have inherit , and I hope that it can be change . in the spirit of that remark , I do not wish to ambush the Minister when he speak with a quote from the Defence Secretary when he be the shadow Defence Secretary , so may I put it on the record now ? after a major inquiry by the Independent , Lighthouse Reports and Sky News in November 2023 , he be quote as say : " it be extremely worrying to hear that afghan special force who be train and fund by the UK be be deny relocation and leave in danger . these report act as a painful reminder that the government ' s failure towards Afghans not only leave family in limbo in Pakistan hotel , but also put afghan life at serious threat from the Taliban . Britain ' s moral duty to assist these Afghans be feel most fiercely by the UK force they serve alongside . there can be no more excuse . " I agree with those word the Secretary of State for Defence say previously . I hope he be speak to highlight problem with the Government , as those in opposition must do ; I be afraid that my Government do not resolve that issue . at the end of my speech , as the Minister will know , I will pitch to he how thing should be different . the bureaucracy of the scheme be astonishing . thousand of application remain unresolved , some of which be submit as far back as 2021 . many of these people have have to flee and hide with their family , because they risk death — I will come back to a particular case that highlight all that . the long lack of transparency and the long delay have leave these individual in personal and collective danger . the scheme have narrow and inconsistent eligibility criterion . individual who have serve alongside UK force have be exclude due to narrow definition and specific eligibility category that rule they out . other have be deny protection because they be employ by subcontractor rather than the Ministry of Defence , yet they carry out the same vital work and face the same risk as other who be directly employ . then there be the broken promise . the UK Government assure those who serve with the british force that they would not be leave behind , yet life be still at risk . first - hand report from Afghanistan show that former ally be now be target by the Taliban . I do not serve in Afghanistan — I do serve in the british military , a fact of which I be proud — but there be some in this Chamber today who do serve there and who know from first - hand experience what be go on . throughout all of this , as I lie out the individual case , there be a very simple theme : we must stand by those who stand by we , because if we do not , we be not worthy of be british or of the freedom we uphold and fight for . those who stand by we fight for those freedom , too ; they support we in those fight , and we can not abandon they , give the threat they now face . the fact that they be in hiding , fearful for their life , be an absolute travesty , and the idea that we could have forget they should be a badge of shame for any british Government and for the british establishment . rise — order . the right hon . Gentleman will know that he can not intervene from the Front Bench in an Adjournment debate . I hope I can give my right hon . friend time to get to the Benches behind he , as he may wish to intervene on I . I be sure that he will not be notice in that movement , swift and ghost - like as he . I be not go to stretch this out any long . the individual I will refer to today work alongside british force in Afghanistan , provide operational and intelligence support under direct threat from the Taliban . his family and his home be threaten . he serve in the national security directorate in Kabul . his work involve share critical intelligence with the british special force and intelligence service in Kabul and , of course , in the wide region . that intelligence undoubtedly save life and contribute to the success of key operation . his contribution be simply not in doubt or in question ; they be evidence extensively , include in a powerful testimony from the most senior commander of british force in Kabul at the time , who be now a general . he personally work with this individual and have testify to the crucial role he play . I be not go to name the general at this point , but he say in his letter in support of this individual ' s application : " his daily security briefing cover possible threat and intelligence report . these report make a substantive and crucially life - save contribution not only to the UK ' s military and national security objective with respect to operation in Afghanistan , but also to the day - to - day safety of british troop and civilian British Embassy staff " and other . he also say that by the very nature of the daily intelligence that this individual be require to share within this high - level forum , the threat to his life and that of his family be unquestionably at an elevated risk from target attack , include a high risk of death or serious injury by the Taliban regime . I would have think that that alone be powerful enough evidence to say that this individual should be here now , as he be currently in fear for his life in another country nearby . I do serve in Afghanistan , include with the young major who be now the general that my right hon . and gallant Friend be refer to . he be an outstanding officer with unimpeachable credential . my right hon . and gallant Friend be make a compelling moral case . I have see at first hand the risk that those Afghans who support we on operation face alongside we , which only increase exponentially when the Taliban take over . we have a very moral case for do whatever we have to do to fulfil our obligation , and if that mean tear up someone ' s bureaucratic rulebook , so be it . it be powerful that my hon . and gallant Friend be here today to support this debate , give his service in Afghanistan . he will understand more than most the threat that be receive by these people and how their life would have be more difficult . he will also know that many would have lose their life have this sort of intelligence and support not be available from these brave individual . I be grateful for his intervention . despite the overwhelming evidence present — there be much of it — the application be reject on all count and the individual remain at risk . what we get back in the paper that I look through , which come first to the Minister and then to I , be this : " the decision maker be unable to satisfy themselves from the evidence provide or that hold by the UK Government that his role with National Directorate of Security … be closely support or in partnership with a UK Government Department " . be that really the good we can do — some bureaucrat stick away somewhere who do not care , who be not even in the Ministry of Defence and who have no real understanding of what it be like to put one ' s life on the line for other people ' s safety ? all of that evidence be dismiss in the line " unable to satisfy themselves from the evidence provide " . I find that astonishing and appalling . I say that not to attack civil servant — many of they be brilliant and do a lot of work — but this process allow someone to make a decision about the life and death of a brave individual without even think about the consequence . this be not just about a bureaucratic error . as I say , the situation be very human ; it be literally life and death . we be make a decision today under this scheme to have this individual die . that be pretty much what they be say . he be a man in hiding , in fear of his life and the life of his family . I understand that even his close relation have be arrest and have probably be torture to find out where he be . we dismiss it with the word that those process his application be " unable to satisfy themselves " . by the very nature of the daily intelligence that this individual be require to share , there be a threat to his life and to his family . he have place himself between we and the Taliban . record of these meeting be keep and widely publicise , include in public relation - focus photograph show the individual at meeting attend by the general . this evidence be record in Afghan Government system and in office now commandeer by the Taliban , who now know what he be do . it be still easily searchable on the internet today , yet the decision maker be " unable to satisfy themselves from the evidence provide " that he be closely support or in partnership with the UK . really ? I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for give way on that point . be this not a case of the old adage that rule be for the guidance of wise man and the obeyance of fool ? be we not see a punctilious following of rule here , when a man ' s life be at risk ? indeed , we be . we be elect — that be what make we different — to this Chamber to take that on and to change it . we be not bind by a bureaucratic process . we have the power here to change anything , and I simply ask : why not do that , when human life and those who serve we be at risk ? we must recognise and remember that we be not bureaucrat — we be politician , and we must feel the pain of other and understand when we need to change . I be concerned that my own Government do not make that change before and , in a way , I be beg the Government to see it differently and to try to do something about it . More and more ex - military and ex - security force people be be target in Afghanistan . we know that ; it be a fact . execution be take place all the time , but because we be not there and it be not on the television every day , we put it to one side . we forget that dead british serviceman be clap through the town because people recognise their bravery in be out there to help people and to support those who do not want that tyranny back in their country . we support those serviceman , and we feel strongly for their bravery ; why do we not feel the same for those who help they and who help many other to stay alive ? surely they be just as valuable to we as any british soldier who be save by they . that be the cost , and that be the equation . I simply say to the Minister that accord to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan ' s quarterly human right update , the Taliban detain at least 23 former Government official and member of the afghan national security force during this period . at least five be subject to torture or other form of ill treatment . many of the arrest take place in Panjshir and Kabul , and be reportedly tie to allege link to the National Resistance Front . as I say early , I do not believe that this individual case be isolate . it expose deep systematic failure in the ARAP scheme . the excessive bureaucracy and eligibility criterion be remarkable . the system as it stand be clearly ill equip to deal with exceptional case — there be many — such as this one . most importantly , it fail to offer the necessary protection to those who be now at risk because of their loyalty to the UK and the british force . as I say early , I know there be colleague on both side of the House who behave bravely and serve their country , include the Minister ' s colleague who sit on the Front Bench . I will finish my comment with this . surely we must now change the scheme . we must be generous to those whose generosity with their life have keep so many british life safe . I know the restriction of be at the Dispatch Box , and I know that civil servant will have say to the Minister , " be very careful . you don ' t want to step across this one , and you mustn ' t make a pledge that we can ' t consider . Don ' t let that man put your career in danger . " I think put our career in danger be nothing compare with the action of those who put their life in danger for we . I simply ask the Minister to pledge that he will do his utmost , that he will speak to the power that be , and that he will bang on the door of no . 10 and demand that the Prime Minister take on this case and other personally . while we build up our armed force , and look to have ally and people who will work with we , they will look back at how we treat those who come before and they will ask themselves , " why do I serve with people who forget you when the deed be do ? " I say to the Minister : let we not forget they . they be as brave and as important to we as the soldier who be directly employ by we , who serve we and who make sure that many be save as a result . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for raise this issue , and for present his argument in the way that he do . we have speak about this case on a number of occasion , so he will know that I take responsibility for make sure that we make the correct decision on ARAP . when I be on the Opposition Front Bench , where the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) be now sit , I raise concern about the functioning of the ARAP scheme . in office , we have make change to the scheme to make sure that it function well , which I will come to . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) mention communication , and I believe the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) quote the Secretary of State ' s comment on the Triples review , but I will address the issue raise by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green in the first instance . I very much appreciate the right hon . member ' s advocacy for the individual involve , and his passion for afghan resettlement in general . he be absolutely right to say that we owe an obligation to the people who serve alongside UK force . what we have do with the ARAP scheme be implement as a nation , under the last government and this one , probably the most generous afghan relocation scheme of any of the ally that serve in Afghanistan , and we have draw a set of eligibility criterion that — with the exception of the Triples , which I will come to in a moment — have broadly remain the same under this Government and the precede Government . [ Official Report , 11 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 11wc . ] ( Correction ) I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern about element of that , which I will seek to address . as a former Minister , he will know that I will not be able to address the individual circumstance of the case without permission , so I will make some more general remark in respect of that individual case . however , I hope the right hon . Gentleman will not mind my saying that we have meet previously on this matter , and I very much understand and appreciate his ongoing engagement . I have to be honest with he and say that when he and I first speak about this case and I be brief on it , I too be surprise by the decision that be make . that be why I undertake to take it back to the Department and to check on the eligibility of the case , which I do . have do that , I be confident that the official have follow the publish criterion and apply they correctly to the evidence provide . the decision be appropriate and should stand . I should also be clear that there be no plan to ask to expand the criterion , which be implement by the previous Government . I do , however , recognise the context of this particular matter , and I be happy to take up the right hon . Gentleman ' s challenge to see whether exceptional route may be available . I do not want to give he false hope — I be not certain there will be such a route — but have speak to he previously about this , I know the seriousness of the matter he raise , and I be happy to see whether we could look at additional opportunity to provide support in this case . when it come to the publish criterion for ARAP , we must be absolutely clear about eligibility , and it be my job as the Minister responsible for afghan resettlement to make sure that decision be make correctly against the publish eligibility criterion . where decision have be make , an individual have access to a review , and where there be a concern over an individual ' s security while that review be ongoing — especially circumstance in which the life and safety of that individual be threaten — there be the ability to request an expedite decision . the Minister ' s civil servant will be proud of he . I think the point my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) be make be that when the computer say no and the Minister know that the computer be wrong , do he not have an obligation simply to go away and change the system ? first , I put on record that we have exceptional civil servant work in this area who take the decision very seriously and make those decision in full consciousness of their consequence . I be absolutely convinced that we have a good team work on this . on the point the hon . member raise , we be make decision against the publish criterion , and it be right to do so . we know that amendment to the publish criterion change the eligibility in respect of past case . we also know that at the moment we have the most generous afghan resettlement scheme . we have resettle 34 , 000 eligible person in the United Kingdom under ARAP and the associate afghan resettlement scheme , which be more than many of our ally . it be right that we make those decision against the publish criterion , and that we look carefully at they . that be why I undertake to do so in this case , and I have do so . there be a real challenge , and I entirely understand it . as someone who have advocate for Afghans in my own Plymouth constituency who fall outside the publish criterion , which be set in place by the last Government and that we have follow , I have often argue that we should look again at this obligation . I be entirely aware that the majority of my effort on this have centre on the Triples , who I will come on to , and whether those decision be make correctly . I will give the House an update on that in a moment . I want to make sure that decision be correct accord to the publish criterion . those criterion be frequently challenge in the court , and we have to uphold they to make sure that every decision be valid . every case be assess on a case - by - case basis , base on the information provide follow a request for the information hold not just by the Ministry of Defence but by other Government Departments and partner across Government , in order to make sure that the decision take be as appropriate as possible . individual who get a decision that be not in their favour also have the ability to provide additional evidence and to have that decision review . I know that the Minister sincerely care about all of this , and I be sure that he really want to do his good , however the key point be make by my hon . and right hon . and gallant Friends be that , if the criterion do not cater for a situation in which senior british military personnel give first - person testimony that somebody save british life by take exceptionally courageous step in our support , the criterion need to be adjust . that be what should be do , as I hope he be go tell we that it may have be adjust for the Triples . I entirely understand where the right hon . Gentleman be go with that argument . under the criterion in the scheme we inherit from the previous Government , which we have continue , we have make the decision , with the exception of the Triples , to keep the eligibility decision the same . [ Official Report , 11 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 12wc . ] ( Correction ) let I turn to the Triples , which the right hon . Gentleman raise . I believe that the quote of the Secretary of State when in opposition be in relation to the very concern situation — I believe it be a concern to he and to I when in opposition — that decision be make in respect of the afghan special force , the Triples , that be inconsistent with the evidence that be be provide . we back and call for the Triples review , which be initiate by my predecessor in the previous Government . phase 1 of that review have now complete and we have achieve an overturn rate of around 30 % . a write ministerial statement on that be publish — I think last month — should the right hon . Gentleman want to refer to the full detail . in that work , we interrogate the datum that be available . the record - keeping of that period be not good enough , as I have say from the Dispatch Box a number of time since take office . as part of that trawl , we discover information in relation to top - up payment , which previously have be exclude from the criterion because they do not constitute the relationship with the UK Government that would have create eligibility . our belief be that the way those top - up payment be apply may now constitute a relationship that need to be re - examined , so phase 2 of the Triples review , which will be the final phase of the review , be look at top - up payment . it be right to do that , because there be a clear point . in the case raise by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green , I be very happy to try to see what be available to support it . I feel very deeply that we need to honour our obligation to those people who serve alongside our force , from the afghan translator and interpreter who live in the constituency I represent , to the people who fight , and in some case die , alongside our force . the ARAP scheme be a generous scheme , but it be not intend , at its point of initiation or now , to cover all Afghans who fight in that conflict over 20 year . it be design to support those who we can evidence have a close connection to UK force , often define by a contractual or payment relationship — in blunt plain - english term — where a sizeable commitment have be make . that draw a line for some individual who be employ by the afghan national army , the Afghan Government and element of the security structure that the Afghan Government have at that time , for which eligibility be not create despite their role . the Taliban regime have create chaos , instability and terror through many community in Afghanistan since our departure . that be why , as a Government , we be try to accelerate and deliver the afghan scheme . the hon . member for North East Fife mention communication . that be entirely right . it be something I have be raise since become a Minister . we will introduce , from the autumn , a new series of communication design to help people understand where their application be in the process . the new performance indicator will kick in from September time — roughly in the autumn — and that will seek to help people to understand where they be in the process . there be concern around understanding for how long a case will be deal with . I also hope the performance indicator will have time - bind target to help people be able to rate the performance of the Ministry of Defence . certainly , when the Defence Secretary publish his statement on the afghan resettlement scheme at the end of last year , he make the case that we need to complete our obligation and bring the scheme to a close , and it be our objective to do so . rise — rise — I will give way to the right hon . gentleman ; I hope the hon . Lady do not mind . we be close to run out of time , I understand that . if I may , I just stress that the fail I be refer relate to the fact that the officer who command the garrison meet this man regularly and have he at meeting in which they discuss future operation . he be trust . he feed they intelligence . he help support they , so that they do not go into area where they should not have go . the major who work with this guy also make a statement about how important he be , even though , officially , there be not some kind of P45 that tie he to our pay structure . the reality be that he serve we . all I ask be that the Minister recognise that , go away and say , " this be not good enough . this individual need to be save very soon . " he may be dead . we do not have much time . I be happy to continue the conversation with the right hon . gentleman in the day ahead . question put and agree to . House adjourn .