with permission , I would like to make a statement about the future of our high education sector and the change that we will be make for student in the upcoming academic year , 2025 - 26 . before I go far , I want to make clear the approach that this Labour Government take to our university and , above all , to the student whose education be their central purpose , because the Conservative Government do not just talk down university ; they talk down the aspiration of working - class family across our country , and they dismiss the ambition of our young people and undermine their opportunity . this Government take a different approach . we be determined to break down the barrier to opportunity , and high education be central to that mission . high education be part of what make our country great . it enrich our culture , power our economy and sustain intellectual tradition stretch back century . it be a beacon of opportunity — to student not just from this country , but from across the world — and a sector of which everyone in this House ought to be proud . but when this Government take office in July , we find a university sector face severe financial challenge . with tuition fee freeze for the last seven year , university have suffer a significant real - term decline in their income . we also find a regulator subject to political whim , unable to focus on the challenge our university face . a succession of Conservative Ministers face with tough decision have , for year after year , duck they time and again . we inherit in our university , as across so much of our public sector , the consequence of long year of shameful abdication of responsibility : long year in which I hear too often from student of the gap between the course they be promise and the experience they have , about the trouble they have make end meet as they work hard not merely at their study but often at two or more job on top ; long year in which I see the amazing research our university deliver but how infrequently those triumph drive wide success ; and long year in which I hear from international student , who make such an important contribution to our country , that the previous Government have make they feel neither value nor welcome . that be the mess that Opposition member leave behind , but where the Conservatives shirk the hard choice , this Government have not hesitate to grip the challenge we face and take the tough decision to restore stability to high education , to fix the foundation and to deliver change . we have accept in full the recommendation of the independent review of the Office for Students . we have also bring new leadership to the office and refocus its work to monitor university ' finance and to hold leadership to account . I thank Sir David Behan for his work both lead the independent review and now as its interim chair . we have pause the commencement of the last government ' s freedom of speech legislation while we consider the impact on university , student and the regulator , because although university must be home to robust discussion and rigorous challenge , regulation must also be workable . I be here today to make two set of announcement on high education reform , address the challenge our student and university face , and grip these issue as a responsible government . first , we will fix the foundation . we will secure the future of high education so that student can benefit from a world - class education for generation to come . that be why I be announce that , in line with the forecast set out in the Budget last week , from April 2025 we will be increase the maximum cap for tuition fee in line with inflation to £ 9 , 535 — an increase of £ 285 per academic year . I understand that some student may worry about the impact that the increase will have on their loan debt , so I want to reassure student already at university that when they start repay their loan , they will not see high monthly repayment as a result of these change to fee and maintenance loan . that be because student loan be not like consumer loan ; monthly repayment depend on earning , not simply the amount borrow or interest rate , and at the end of any loan term , any outstanding loan balance , include interest build up , will be write off . increase the fee cap have not be an easy decision , but I want to be crystal clear that this will not cost graduate more each month as they start to repay their loan . university be responsible for manage their own finance and must act to remain sustainable , but member across the House will agree that it be no use keep tuition fee down for future student if the university be not there for they to attend , nor if student can not afford to support themselves while they study . I therefore confirm that we will boost support for student with living cost by increase maximum maintenance loan in line with inflation , give they an additional £ 414 a year in ' 25 - 26 . I also confirm that from the start of the ' 25 - 26 academic year a low fee limit of £ 5 , 760 will be introduce for foundation year in classroom - base subject such as business , social science and humanity . the Government recognise the importance of foundation year for promote access to high education , but they can be deliver more efficiently in classroom - base subject , at a low cost to student . the change that the Government be bring about must go far , so my second set of announcement signal the start of deep change for our student , our university and our country . today , I will set out the scale of our ambition to build a high education system fit for the challenge not just of today but of tomorrow . in the month ahead , we will publish our proposal , because in university , as across our public service , investment can come only with the promise of major reform . the contribution of high education to our economy , our community and our country must grow and strengthen . that begin with university do more to spread opportunity to disadvantaged student , in both expand access and improve outcome . our most recent datum show why . the gap between disadvantaged student and their peer in progression to university by age 19 be the high on record . I will not tolerate that shameful divide any long . university can and must do more , and they must rise to the huge challenge of technological change , support adult with the flexibility that they need to retrain . that be why we confirm in the Budget that we be press ahead with the lifelong learning entitlement . while the UK be home to many world - class university , it be time that all student in high education in this country feel the benefit . it be time to raise the bar far on teaching standard , to improve our world - lead reputation and drive out poor practice , and it be time to ensure that all student get good value for money , which , if we be honest , have not always be the case in the past . furthermore , university must do more to raise their impact beyond their gate . they must do more to drive the growth that this country sorely need by attract talent from around the world , join with Skills England , employer and partner in further education to deliver the skill that people and business need , and shape world - class research to create good job across the country . member across the House will know how important university can be for the area that surround they — not just local economy but local community . I want university to work hard to embed themselves in those local community , as civic anchor — the beat heart of local life in our town and city — not ivory tower far from local concern . lie beneath those challenge must be a further transformation : a renew drive for efficiency . student and taxpayer support the cost of our university . they be right to expect that every penny be spend effectively . we will not accept wasteful spending . university must rise to the challenge , which mean ensure that the pay of their top team be fair and justifiable . I be determined that our world - class high education sector do not merely survive in the year ahead but thrive , support student in every corner of our country and at every stage of their life . I be determined that our university become all that I know they can be . the scale of our ambition demand a new approach , root in partnership , so I look forward to partnering with the sector , the Office for Students and UK Research and Innovation . I will work closely with Ministers across Government , in particular the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , to deliver a reformed and strengthen high education system for our country . as today the Government look to the future , I be remind that more than 60 year have pass since the Robbins report on high education be present to this House , with its famous principle " that course of high education should be available for all those who be qualified by ability and attainment to pursue they and who wish to do so . " that principle drive the expansion of high education over the decade that follow , under successive government of both party . it be central to the thinking of this Government today . that be why responsible government must treat university not as a political battleground but as a public good . it be why Government member want to see the continued success of our young people , and it be why we be determined to ensure the sustainability and success of our high education sector , not just in the year ahead but for decade to come . I commend this statement to the House .