business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that Chris Elmore , Samantha Dixon and Jeff Smith be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Lilian Greenwood , Nesil Caliskan and Gen Kitchen be add . — ( Sir Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Critical Infrastructure funding : Maintenance and Repair how much capital funding she plan to allocate for the maintenance and repair of critical infrastructure in the next five year . I call the Minister — congratulation . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . through the spending review and the 10 - year infrastructure strategy , the Government be fund at least £ 725 billion of infrastructure over the next decade . that include investment in critical asset , such as £ 24 billion over the next four year to maintain and improve motorway and local road and £ 7 . 9 billion over 10 year to maintain exist flood defence and invest in new one . we have also commit to long - term maintenance budget for public service infrastructure , with £ 10 billion of funding per year by 2034 - 35 to maintain and repair our hospital , prison , court , school and college so that provider can deliver cost saving by plan ahead . the weight limit impose on the M48 severn bridge due to the deterioration of its support cable be have a big impact on local business and farmer who work on both side of the Severn . National Highways estimate that it would cost up to £ 600 million to repair the bridge , with restriction only postpone the inevitable . will the Chancellor meet I to discuss the impact and commit to provide the funding to get the bridge repair and reopen for everyone as soon as possible ? as be set out in the 10 - year infrastructure strategy , £ 24 billion of capital funding between 2026 - 27 and 2029 - 30 have be allocate to National Highways , which be the organisation responsible for maintain the M48 severn bridge . the funding include £ 1 billion to enhance local road network and create a new structure fund , which will be use to repair a range of key local structure , such as bridge , flyover and tunnel . constituent in Marylebone want to see improvement to the railway engine that go into Marylebone station . do the Treasury agree that more work can be do to ensure that the overall investment in those train be support by the benefit that accrue across the whole line , all the way down to Aylesbury , as investment in those train will make a big difference to growth along the whole track ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the critical importance of investment in our railway infrastructure . we know that under the previous Government , we have chronic under - investment in the infrastructure across our country , and the railway bear the brunt of much of that neglect . we be determined to turn that around to ensure that we be invest in railway infrastructure to improve the quality of life for people and drive economic growth right across this country . Infrastructure strategy : economic Growth what step she have take to increase economic growth through the 10 - year infrastructure strategy . what step she have take to increase economic growth through the 10 - year infrastructure strategy . what step she have take to increase economic growth through the 10 - year infrastructure strategy . before I start , I quickly welcome my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) and my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) to the team . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) on his new position as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . in response to the question , I want to be clear that the 10 - year national infrastructure strategy be core to deliver this Government ' s growth mission to boost living standard . the strategy will fund at least £ 725 billion of infrastructure over the next decade and transform how project be plan and deliver , so that we do not have the cost and time overrun that we become so used to under the Conservatives . work with colleague in Greater Manchester , I have be proud to campaign for great investment in our public transport infrastructure . the Government listen and deliver £ 2 . 5 billion of funding for the Bee Network , which will allow we to create the first fully integrate zero - emission public transport system . will my right hon . friend explain what that will mean for my constituent in term of job , growth and connectivity ? my hon . friend be a proud champion of the people of Altrincham and Sale West . investment through the transport for city region fund will allow the Mayor of Greater Manchester , Andy Burnham , to invest in local priority , create job , well commute , big labour market and more opportunity across Greater Manchester . that include investment in the fully electric Bee Network with zero - emission public transport by 2030 , include the purchase of 1 , 000 new electric bus make in Rochdale , Northern Ireland and Scotland . that be in sharp contrast with the SNP Government , who buy their bus from China . thank to labour ' s fiscal rule , the Government have unlock private investment in UK infrastructure and strengthen investor confidence . the 10 - year infrastructure strategy will revitalise all part of the country ' s economy , include in Scotland and in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire . do the Chancellor agree that the UK Labour Government have put Scotland at the heart of economic growth , with unprecedented support for scottish industry , job and public service , in stark contrast to the SNP Scottish Government ? my hon . friend be a great champion for the people of West Dunbartonshire , and I know he be work very closely with the Ministry of Defence at the moment to secure defence investment in his constituency . during the summer , I have the opportunity to spend some time in Scotland , see the result of our infrastructure investment — in the defence sector , carbon capture and storage in Aberdeenshire , transport investment in Glasgow , the supercomputer , and RAF Lossiemouth — and how the trade deal be benefit industry in Scotland , include Scotch whisky . can the Chancellor outline the impact on economic growth in the north - east of England she expect from the record - break £ 1 . 85 billion spending package award early this year for transport infrastructure in the region ? my hon . friend have be a good advocate for his constituent . he and I , as well as the Labour Mayor Kim McGuinness , know that invest in road , cycleway and the metro will make a real and practical difference . this build on the £ 0 . 6 billion that the north - east be receive through the city region sustainable transport settlement , of which £ 23 million have be earmark for Durham . of course , my hon . friend ' s constituent will also benefit from the wide economic benefit of extend the Tyne and wear metro , link Washington with Newcastle and Sunderland . in my view , Stone railway station be one of the most attractive and beautiful station on the west coast main line . sadly , though , its platform be too short , mean that inter - city train can not stop there . would the Chancellor of the Exchequer be kind enough to speak with her Transport colleague about what future option there be for Stone to benefit from the extension of platform , which would improve its connectivity to not just Birmingham and Manchester , but also London ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question relate to his constituency . it be a shame that the conservative party do not invest in extend those platform when it be in power for 14 year . I be very happy to discuss with my colleague at the Department for Transport how the his constituent can benefit from the extra £ 120 billion that this Government be put into capital investment . over the summer , Heathrow finally publish its proposal for a third runway . it be very clear that a lot of support road and rail infrastructure will be need if that expansion go ahead . could the Chancellor outline to the House what estimate her Department have make of the amount of public investment that will be need ? heathrow exec have be clear that they be not go to fully fund it themselves . this government back a third runway at Heathrow . we be a country that be open to global trade and investment — we have do three trade deal with country around the world and have secure £ 120 billion of inward investment . Heathrow Airport Ltd and other have now put forward a bid to build the third runway , and have be very clear that they will be invest in the infrastructure to make that possible . I welcome investment into Britain , and I hope that party all across the House will do the same . if the Chancellor be look for some quick - win infrastructure project that will unlock economic growth , I recommend take a look at a pass loop on the South Fylde line , which would well connect train to employment and education site through more reliable service . it would also act as a boost for the tourism industry on the Fylde coast ; people across Lancashire — maybe from other great town such as Chorley — like to visit Lytham St Annes and the Fylde coast , and would be able to do so on half - hourly rail service . will the Chancellor take a look at that fantastic opportunity to boost economic growth in Lancashire and the Fylde ? I have huge respect for the hon . Gentleman , and no one in this House would want to do anything to upset Mr Speaker . I be very happy to look at investment opportunity in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and right across Lancashire , include just up the coast in Blackpool , where we put in significant investment at the spending review early this year to build the housing and infrastructure our country desperately need . I call the shadow Minister . the Chancellor once claim that she have a plan for fix the foundation with infrastructure at the very heart . now , through a consultation that the Government hope nobody would notice , she have find a way to tax the foundation . by look to impose a new levy on quarry , Labour could add billion of pound more to the cost of infrastructure project across the country . that can not be right . can the Chancellor please provide the construction industry — the very people who will grow our economy — with an assurance that this propose builder tax will not go ahead ? the Government be currently consult on a landfill tax . it be a consultation , and it be open for comment from right across industry , but this Government be invest in infrastructure . compare with the plan that we inherit , which would have see capital investment fall as a share of gdp , we be instead put an additional £ 120 billion in , as well as £ 70 billion through the National Wealth Fund . crucially , that be leverage in private sector investment in transport infrastructure , include road , railway and airport , and digital infrastructure . we be grow the economy — a far cry from what the Conservatives do in their 14 waste year . Employer National Insurance Contributions : economic Growth what assessment she have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on economic growth . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of increase in employer national insurance contribution on business . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on economic growth . Minister , welcome . thank you , Mr Speaker . the immediate task face the Labour Government be to take action to stabilise the public finance and invest in our public service . on national insurance , we do that in a way that protect the small business by increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance contribution at all , and more than half will either gain or see no change . the national insurance increase in last year ' s Budget not only increase national insurance , but impact on part - time worker , many of whom the hospitality industry rely on . hospitality company in North East Fife have write to I directly , but they have also start to share with their customer the real impact of the cost increase they be see . do the Minister agree that there have be an impact on hospitality , and will he commit to ensure that the Chancellor deliver a hospitality - friendly Budget come the autumn ? I thank the hon . member for be the first parliamentarian today who have not ask I , " who will you be back in the Labour deputy leadership contest ? " I appreciate that very much . when it come to small business , in particular those in hospitality , overall employment have increase by 380 , 000 since the Government come to power . this week , I will be have discussion with member of ukhospitality to think about how we can support the sector more through the change to business rate announce last year . we will come forward with more detail on that in the Budget later this year . I be not particularly interested in who the Minister be back in the deputy leadership contest , but I welcome he to his place . lebanese please be a fantastic restaurant in Weybridge , but like many hospitality company , it be struggle with the impact of national insurance increase . if the partly new Treasury Front - Bench team be consider go for a team lunch , I recommend the warm hospitality of Runnymede and Weybridge , where they can see for themselves the impact that this horrid , harmful tax be have on local business across the country . I would not presume to know where the next Treasury ministerial awayday will happen , but perhaps we will have to consider the restaurant in the hon . member ' s constituency . he be a strong advocate for the business in his constituency . I hope he know that I advocate from the Back Benches — and will continue to do so in government — for policy that we can implement to boost economic growth and living standard , so that more people have more money to spend in business such as the one he mention in his constituency . I have have many meeting with business owner across Wokingham , whether that be world leader in the defence industry , GP surgery , medical manufacturer , farmer , hospitality company or exporter . it be clear that labour ' s hike to national insurance contribution have create immense financial burden for those company . this policy have prevent many from hire more staff and devastate their profit , and it be stifle growth . what step be the Minister take to give business like those in Wokingham hope that this government do have their back ? the big picture on all three of those question be that at last year ' s Budget , the Government make the decision to increase national insurance in order to raise £ 20 billion . we have put that money into our public service , make sure that waiting list have fall pretty much every single month since the election . that mean that we have deliver 4 million more appointment , many more people have be see , and waiting list be fall in my constituency and across the country . that be the difference that this Government be make : we be repair the foundation , and make sure that we can look after people now and in the future . this month , we see an expansion of childcare that will benefit family in my constituency to the tune of £ 7 million , which will go back into their pocket . what assessment have the Minister make of how that spending power will benefit growth across the economy and productivity ? the investment that this Government be make in childcare , which will increase the number of hour available to family with child age nine month or old , be the right investment in the future . it be an investment in those child and an investment in make sure that parent can return to work , so that we can improve productivity in our country and have more people who be able to get back to work and enjoy the benefit that that can bring . UK business confidence have hit a 12 - month high , accord to the late figure from Lloyds Banking Group . do the Minister agree that this be due to the work of this Labour Government , not least the five consecutive interest rate cut and the three new trade deal ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that we have have five interest rate cut since the election . that have reduce the cost of mortgage for family up and down the country , and reduce the cost of borrow for business that be think about invest . it be good to see that there be more investment come both domestically and internationally , particularly as a result of our investment summit that I be pleased to attend last year . when I be elect for the first time last year , my constituent tell I that they want this Labour Government to rebuild our public service , which be what our tax change be deliver . do the Minister agree that opposition party , of whatever colour , want the benefit of our investment in public service but be not willing to take the tough decision to deliver they ? yes , I agree strongly with my hon . friend that Opposition member continue to will the end — they want the spending on public service — but be not willing to come forward with a plan for the mean and the money to invest in our public service so that we can change thing for people up and down this country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the job tax have hit small business the hard , with statistic from the Office for National Statistics show that vacancy among small business alone have drop by 18 % . this prove that the job tax be not only crush growth but crush opportunity , especially in hospitality . have Treasury Ministers commission their official to look at any of the fairer revenue raiser that we Liberal Democrats have put forward — such as taxis on the bank , the tech company or the gambling company — in order that the Treasury could scrap the job tax at the next Budget ? when the Liberal Democrats be last in government , they make the decision to whack up vat on business , whereas this government be do all we can to reform business rate so that retail , hospitality and leisure industry can get the support that they need from the business rate system . the national insurance change that be make last year protect the small business , with many see low business rate or not see increase . Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief : impact on Farming if she will meet farming representative to discuss the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on farmer . if she will meet with representative of the farming industry to discuss the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on that sector . if she will meet with representative of the farming industry to discuss the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on that sector . in my former role as the Minister with responsibility for the UK tax system , and on the Chancellor ' s behalf , I have meet farming representative and farmer . those discussion have include the National Farmers Union , the Tenant Farmers Association , the Country Land and Business Association , the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , the Ulster Farmers Union , NFU Cymru , NFU Scotland and the Farmers Union of Wales . after listen , however , the Government continue to believe that the approach we have set out be the right one . last weekend I attend the Sennybridge show , where I meet young farmer from Brecknockshire who be recruit new member and fundraising for good cause . there be one question to which they would like to hear an answer from the Chancellor : why be the Government target family farm for tax rise rather than go after the big bank , which be close branch right across my constituency ? why should young farmer have to pay for the mess leave behind by the Conservatives ? the hon . Gentleman talk about good cause . I assume he would agree that the NHS be a good cause , that public service be a good cause , and that a stable economy that encourage investment in our country be a good cause to pursue . as hon . member have say many time already , the opposition party , include the hon . Gentleman ' s , be very happy to reap the reward of spending and investment , but be totally incapable of take any of the difficult decision to raise the revenue necessary to support they . give the Prime Minister ' s clear commitment to growth that benefit every community in every corner of the UK , his Ministers will no doubt be disturb at polling show that four fifth of farmer have postpone or delay investment since the Budget . be it not time for a rethink of this policy — if not on ground of fairness , then on ground of investment , productivity and economic growth ? I have be involve in many debate in this House that the right hon . Gentleman have be a part of as well , and we have set out how the decision we have take mean the system come in from April next year will maintain generous tax relief within the agricultural property relief and business property relief system , while also raise revenue in a fair way to support the public finance . that money for the public finance , as I and my right hon . and hon . friend have say many time today , be crucial to have economic stability and to get our public service back on their foot . the Chancellor elicit much public sympathy with her recent tearful appearance on these Benches , but over the summer I have have Dumfries and Galloway farmer in tear at the loss of the next generation of farming . a new Centre for the Analysis of Taxation report say that HMRC ' s own figure indicate that these change to taxis be unfair and unbalanced . will the Minister please think again ? the hon . Gentleman be wrong . the CenTax report he refer to be independent analysis demonstrate that , in its opinion , the reform improve on the current position and be expect largely to meet the Government ' s objective . in fact , the report validate the Government ' s position . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats oppose the family farm tax , but in the spirit of constructive opposition , last November I recommend and request that Ministers look at the idea of a family farm test , such as the one use in France and Ireland . such a test would ensure that they could close the loophole on big equity company exploit land , but it would not cover family farm in the process . since I raise that suggestion last November , have Treasury Ministers ask official to look at it ? as be the normal process in develop any policy , we consider a range of option , but we have decide that this get the balance right : raise revenue in a fair way while offer generous relief within the agricultural property relief and business property relief system . let I just say that , when I hear the hon . Lady stand up and begin a sentence with , " we Liberal Democrats oppose " , I be hardly surprised . Government Debt Interest payment what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of level of Government debt interest payment on public finance . what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of level of Government debt interest payment on public finance . we be invest in Britain ' s future and put in place the plan need to get Britain build again after 14 year of Tory failure . since the election , we have have five interest rate cut , wage have rise more in the first 10 month of this Labour Government than they do in the first 10 year of the previous Conservative Government , and we be the fast grow economy in the G7 in the first half of this year . I thank the Chancellor for that response . this year , interest on debt be expect to total £ 111 billion , which be 8 . 3 % of total public spending . what be the Chancellor ' s plan to rebuild confidence in the gilt market , and how confident be she that we will not be relive the bad bit of the 1970 ? the good way to make sure that we continue to have confidence in the gilt market be to keep the Tories and Liz Truss as far away from run the economy as possible . we have bring stability back to the economy , and there have be five cut in interest rate . this be in sharp contrast to the disaster of Liz Truss and the clown show that we witness at the Reform conference at the weekend . those two party would lose control of spending , and push up mortgage cost and inflation . they have do it before , and they would do it all over again . so why do the Chancellor think that the United Kingdom be be charge more in interest even than Greece ? the spread on our gilt over the central bank rate be low in the UK than it be in Greece , so maybe the right hon . Gentleman should look again at his evidence . the truth be that we have have five cut in interest rate since this government come to office . we be pay high level of interest on the debt , but the debt be accrue by the Conservative party , which destroy our economy and public service all at once . we be fix the mess that the Conservatives leave . the trust of financial market depend not just on the policy of the Government today , but on whether we keep that trust tomorrow . the opposition squander that trust when they be in government by try to push through tax cut that they could not afford — that the UK could not afford . do the Chancellor agree that Labour , too , have to resist the temptation to duck the tough choice on spending , which would not only risk economic stability but hold back growth ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . that be why we publish the spending review early this year . the review set out plan for day - to - day spending for the next three year and capital spending for the next five . everything in the review be fully fund and fully cost through the difficult decision that we have to make in the Budget last year to increase taxis . at the same time , the deficit be expect to fall by 1 percentage point of gdp this year . both the Conservatives and Reform want to repeat the medicine that Liz Truss inflict on this country , push interest rate and mortgage through the roof . be not the contrast that this Government have provide stability and confidence ; that , as a result , we have record level of private investment in this country ; and that we be on the right track to rebuild this country as a success story , which can be see in the fact that we have the fast growth in the G7 as well ? the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that debt be go to fall during the course of this Parliament — something that never happen under the Conservative Government — and that the deficit as a share of GDP will fall by 1 percentage point this year . this be a Government who have a grip on the public finance and on public spending , because of the choice that we make . all those choice be oppose by all the opposition party . in the spring statement early this year , the Chancellor say that the responsible choice be to reduce our level of borrowing in the year ahead . that be a noble sentiment , which I applaud — if she be not try to fix a watch with a hammer . this be the Chancellor that have see UK debt interest now soar to a 27 - year high , while annual debt interest be almost twice the cost of service the Ministry of Defence . give her catastrophic first Budget , what reassurance have she get for scottish business that thing will not get even bad when she finally have her next budget in the winter ? I will not take any lecture from the SNP , which have put up taxis on ordinary work people in Scotland . the SNP Scottish Government have the big settlement since devolution in real term at the spending review this year . that be only possible because of the tax change that we make in the Budget . it be now up to the SNP Government to use that money wisely and to see waiting list fall in Scotland in the way that they have in England and Wales . waiting list be still rise in Scotland — what do that say about their government ? will the Chancellor remind we whether the national debt go up or down under the previous government ? let I just check — oh yeah , it go through the roof ! at the same time that our debt level go up , we have see our public service — whether that be our school , our hospital , our transport or our infrastructure — on their knee . the Conservative Government manage to destroy our public finance , our economy and our public service . what an achievement . that be why there be only 120 of they and they be sit on the Opposition Benches — and they will be there for a long time to come . I call the shadow Minister . UK long - term borrowing cost be now consistently above the range of G7 country — something that do not occur at any time under previous coalition or conservative government . it be because market be price in the specific weakness of this Labour Government ' s economic policy . the cost of that weakness mean rise price , low investment and less money for public service in the long term . have carpet - bomb the private sector with extra taxis , will the Chancellor rein back the splurge of unproductive public spending that she let rip last year ? the only person that carpet bomb our economy be Liz Truss and the conservative party . the hon . Gentleman support Liz Truss in leadership contest and throughout her time — indicate dissent . he say he do not , but he serve in her Cabinet , so I will take no lecture from Conservative Members . the country will have hear what the Leader of the opposition say today : she be talk down our economy in a desperate attempt to get attention . the truth be , as member on the Opposition Benches know , that that be not serious and it be irresponsible . the only thing in Britain that need a bail - out be the Tory party — from its fail leadership . planning reform : economic Growth what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase economic growth through reform to the planning system . in the spending review , we put significant money into build more house as part of our commitment to build 1 . 5 million home during the course of this Parliament . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be currently make its way through the House of Lords , but more than 600 amendment have be table to it , mainly by peer from Opposition party . the Labour party and this Government back the builder , whereas the opposition party back the blocker . they be stop young people get on the housing ladder , stop renewable energy be build and stop the transport infrastructure that we desperately need to be build . instead of oppose and table amendment , the Opposition party should back that Bill so that we can get Britain build . I have be bang the drum for some time now that Ilford be the good place to live , and with four Elizabeth line station , that have never be more true than now . bark and Dagenham council and Redbridge council be both capitalise on ambitious regeneration plan , like the development at Billet Road and Padnall Lake . what be the Government do to encourage business to seize on this investment by make investment of their own , back Ilford , its community and its economy ? I thank my hon . friend for everything that he be do to champion Ilford South and to bring more investment into his local community . it be great to have labour council work with a Labour Government to bring investment to local community through housing and , crucially , through infrastructure — the school and the doctor ’ surgery — that go alongside that new housing , so that we build not just home but community . as the Chancellor try to cut through the bureaucratic red tape around planning outline , can she undertake that , if successful over the course of the next six to 12 month , she will share that success with the other region and nation in the United Kingdom , so that we can all benefit from simplified planning procedure , which will bring benefit for all our constituent ? over the summer , I have the opportunity to spend some time in Belfast , where I visit Thales , the defence manufacturer , and Studio Ulster , where I see some of the fantastic work in the creative industry . I also have the opportunity to talk about some of the blocker to growth . we need to well reform our planning system , not just in England but in Northern Ireland and Scotland as well , so that we can get thing build in Britain again . People be cry out for hope . growth offer hope and investment offer hope , and that be what this government offer too . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to the hope of decent home . in my constituency , child and family be leave in drove and school be close because of a lack of properly affordable housing . she know , as I do , that whatever we do in planning , without the skill that we need to build those home , there will be a block there . be she work with the new Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , who now have the skill brief , to ensure that we be invest in those skill and super - turbocharge the people who can help to build those home ? just this September , new construction college have start open around the country to train up the next generation of builder , plumber and engineer , so that we can build both the housing infrastructure and the other infrastructure our country desperately need . we have reform the apprenticeship system , so that we can have more foundation apprenticeship for a short period of time to quickly get people the skill they need . not require people to have a grade c or equivalent in math and English to access an apprenticeship programme be also so important for young child who maybe do not get the grade they want in their gcse , but deserve a chance of a good apprenticeship and a job offer a decent wage . there be plan permission in this country for 900 , 000 property that be as yet unbuilt , so maybe the issue be not that the planning law be too restrictive but that they be not prescriptive enough . in my constituency , the average income need to buy the average house be £ 71 , 000 a year — 11 time the average income in my community . be it not right to ensure that , if the Chancellor change plan law , we have to build more genuinely affordable home in community like our , rather than give developer carte blanche ? that can not be an excuse , though , for block development and block people who own land from build more home on that land . in the end , the simple law of supply and demand mean that if we be not build home , price will continue to be unaffordable for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . we be not allow builder to build carte blanche and he absolutely know that . we put the big investment into the affordable home programme that have ever be see , because it be important that the home be build be affordable for family in his constituency and in mine . we must not just always block thing , whether they be airport , housing or other infrastructure ; we have get to back the builder . I call the shadow Minister . the Government want to drive growth through house building , but even before the departure of the Deputy Prime Minister , they be predict to miss the 1 . 5 million new home target by half a million . how do the Chancellor and her team of tax raiser think a 3 , 000 % hike in the builder tax , add £ 28 , 000 to the cost of build a new home , will help to deliver the new home that young people need ? rather than consult on it , why will she not rule out this damaging tax rise ? I think Opposition Members will recognise that building company have strongly welcome the reform we have make to get the country building , and they be very much against the Conservatives , the Liberal Democrats and other in the House of Lords oppose the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which could have be give Royal Assent by now without that opposition . instead of scaremongere about something that be be consult on , the shadow Minister might want to get on and back the positive thing that the Government be do . finally , I pay tribute to the former Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , for the amazing work she do to get housing on the agenda to build the 1 . 5 million home that this country desperately need , and for be an inspiration for so many people from working - class background . I applaud her effort and her work . Better Futures Fund what progress she have make on establish the well future fund . what progress she have make on establish the well future fund . in July , the Chancellor announce the well future fund — the large social outcome partnership fund in the world — to break down barrier to opportunity for up to 200 , 000 vulnerable child and young people . the fund will boost pupil achievement , and could fund programme to reduce reoffende or provide specialist worker for child struggle with exclusion , mental health or crime . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be responsible for the design and implementation of the fund , and it be engage extensively with other Government Departments , the impact economy , civil society sector and local government partner over the come month . the well future fund be a big step forward in work with the impact economy ; as the chair of the social , co - operative and community economy all - party parliamentary group for the social enterprise sector , I be really pleased to see how it can unlock extra resource from social investor , private business and philanthropy to tackle the country ' s urgent problem . will the Chief Secretary ensure that the principle behind the fund be match with the target approach advocate by the Independent Commission on Neighbourhoods , to make sure that the money go where it be well need ? I thank my hon . friend for his support of what we be seek to achieve through the well future fund . he be absolutely right that the fund will be design to ensure that the money go where it be most need and where it will have the big impact — principle I think we can all agree on . as I mention early , DCMS will be work extensively with other Departments , local partner and other to design the scheme and as it get establish . our North East Mayor , Kim McGuinness , be take child poverty seriously , with the recent announcement of £ 28 . 6 million for the north - east child poverty action plan , include funding for a local pilot to expand specialist youth provision and support to open up pathway to future employment opportunity . how will the Chancellor work with Mayor McGuinness from the early stage of development of the well future fund to ensure that it meet the need of child and young people in my constituency of Blaydon and Consett and across the north - east ? I be pleased to meet Kim McGuinness just last week and to hear about the excellent work she be do to champion the north - east . on the well future fund more broadly , we know that the design must truly be a joint endeavour — it must be build up through an open dialogue with a range of different partner who will be involve in the delivery . I reassure my hon . friend that DCMS ' s stakeholder engagement include mayoral strategic authority , as they will be part of that process . the well future fund rightly target the need of vulnerable child , and one such group be those who be subject to adoption or kinship arrangement . last week the Department for Education announce that it would renew the adoption and special guardianship support fund for one year , but do not say that it would reverse the 40 % cut in per - child funding that be announce in the spring . do the Minister agree that reverse those cut be vital for protect family and keep child in adoption arrangement , and will he meet adoptive family from Mid Sussex so that he can well understand the benefit to the Treasury that invest in adoptive family will bring ? the hon . Member ask about an important matter . as a constituency MP , I have meet family who have an interest in the fund and who be in the process of adoption themselves , so I know on a personal level from my constituency work how important it be . what the Department for Education be able to announce last week be important in confirm the extension of the fund , which will offer some certainty to the affected family . I will continue to work with colleague in the DFE to ensure that we be do all we can to support those family , who be play such an important role for their child and for society . I thank the Minister for a very positive answer and for that commitment . what step be be take and what discussion have take place to ensure that vulnerable young people in Northern Ireland can benefit fully from the well future fund , particularly in the area most affect by educational disadvantage ? we want to ensure that the well future fund be target where it be most need and that the investment be spend in a way that really improve life chance , in particular for young people and child who face some of the big challenge ahead . I note what the hon . Gentleman say about the area he represent and the part of the UK he come from ; it be something we will consider as we develop the detail of the fund . Tax relief : Zero - base Review if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of undertake a zero - base review of all tax relief before the autumn Budget 2025 . tax relief be an important feature of the UK tax system , and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have invest significant resource in improve understanding of their cost and effectiveness . since 2019 , it have produce costing for 350 relief , include detailed analysis of the 38 large non - structural relief , which cost more than £ 500 million a year . the Minister detail that about 350 relief have be assess , but my understanding be that more than 1 , 200 tax relief be on the book , amount to hundred of billion of foregone revenue for the Treasury . give that the Treasury examine the spending of all Departments in detail over the summer , I wonder whether it be consider apply the same level of scrutiny to itself . it be worth note that some 800 of the 1 , 200 relief the hon . member mention ensure that the tax system operate as intend by define the scope of tax correctly and that it operate fairly and simply . I be sorry to disappoint the hon . member , but I will not be able to comment specifically on any change that we may or may not make to tax relief — any decision will , of course , be announce at the Budget , which be not today . Financial Services Reform what step she be take to reform the financial service sector . our financial service growth and competitiveness strategy set out the Government ' s 10 - year plan for the sector , make clear our ambition that , by 2035 , the UK will be the global location of choice for financial service firm to invest , grow and sell their service throughout the UK and to the world . to support this ambition , the Government announce the Leeds reform , which be the most wide - range package of reform to financial service regulation in a decade . the reform will turbocharge growth , put more money in the pocket of work people and create more good , skilled job right across the country . I welcome you to your new role . I also welcome my hon . friend to her new role . small business in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield be the lifeblood of our community , provide job and livelihood to our people . grow manufacturer and exporter such as the brilliant Barnes Aerospace in Burnley be do an excellent job at take Britain across the world . will the Economic Secretary set out what the Government be do to support small and medium - sized business , particularly our manufacturer , with access to finance ? my hon . friend raise an important issue , and it be very good to hear he champion business in his constituency . the Government publish the small business strategy in July , which set out how we will make the UK the good place to start and grow a business and put sme at the heart of our growth mission . that include tackle the barrier that sme face when access finance . that be why the Government be commit to increase the total financial capacity of the British Business Bank to £ 25 . 6 billion and introduce a new business growth service , which will make it easy and quick for business across the UK to get the help , support and advice that they need to grow and thrive . I warmly welcome the new Economic Secretary to her role . over the summer I look at issue around liquidity in the London Stock Exchange and the deterioration that have happen . give that only 15 % of share trade attract stamp duty and much more trading be conduct in a dark environment , will the new Economic Secretary meet with I to hear my concern and the concern of those in the City so that we can move forward in a positive direction ? I pay tribute to the right hon . member ' s work in this area , and I would be more than happy to meet with he to discuss those concern . I call the shadow Economic Secretary . I also congratulate the hon . member on her elevation to Economic Secretary to the Treasury ; I be sure she will do very well . the UK banking sector provide a valuable service to our economy , keep money in circulation , fund business and mortgage and all the rest of it . the financial service sector be the UK ' s big export sector . accord to UK Finance , UK bank generate around £ 45 billion in tax every year , but because of thing like the bank levy , UK bank now pay an effective rate of around 46 % , which be high than competitor in New York , Frankfurt , Dublin and Singapore . the Chancellor of the Exchequer have manage to dig her own £ 30 billion black hole in the economy , but can the Minister reassure the City of London and this House that there be no plan to increase taxis on our banking and wide financial service sector in the upcoming Budget in November ? order . the market will be close soon . I call the Minister . I be grateful for the lecture , but I note that it be the Conservatives who introduce the bank levy . the Government be commit to responsibly promote the growth and competitiveness of the sector , and of course we keep the bank tax regime under review . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . sorry , Mr Speaker , bear with I . [ laughter . ] this Government be commit to grow the economy , and we be the fast - grow economy in the G7 in the first half of this year . we have do three trade deal and cut interest rate five time — and I do not even need my note to remember all that . new polling by the Trades Union Congress show that the public overwhelmingly support package of taxis on wealth , on bank and on gambling company . it also find that 74 % of 2024 Labour voter who be now lean towards Reform back those measure . will the Chancellor commit to protect work people from high taxis on their income by ensure that wealth pay its fair share , rather than impose cut and regressive measure ? in the Budget last year , we get rid of the non - dom tax status , we put up capital gain tax , we start treat carry interest as income — not as capital gain — we introduce new taxis on private jet , we put vat and business rate on private school fee and , of course , we change the rule around agricultural property relief so that people who have farm worth more than £ 3 million will pay inheritance tax , although at half the rate that everybody else do . we take a number of measure last year to ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share . some country around the world do have a wealth tax , but country like Switzerland , for example , do not have inheritance tax . I think it would be a mistake to get rid of inheritance tax and replace it with an unproven tax without know what revenue it would bring in . I call the shadow Minister . may I welcome the new member of the Treasury team , with their courage in join it ? I also do so for the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , who can not be with we today . may I particularly welcome the new Chief Secretary , who replace the old Chief Secretary , the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , who be now another new Chief Secretary ? early this year , Labour make a mess of its welfare reform proposal because they be rush out to help plug a £ 5 billion gap in public finance . the result be chaos and a humiliating reversal for the Chancellor . welfare spending be too high — it do need reform — and today the Leader of the Opposition have pledge conservative support to help the Government to develop a thoughtful plan on welfare reform . will the Chancellor take up this offer of support ? order . I remind the shadow Minister that it be topical for everybody . while the Leader of the Opposition be talk down the british economy , we be set our sight on grow the economy and make work people well off . no , we will not be take any advice from the Leader of the Opposition , who be part of a Government who crash the economy , send mortgage rate spiral and put pension in peril . I fear that the Chancellor ' s dismissive response fail to acknowledge either the serious state of public finance or the serious difficulty of her own position . have extend economic uncertainty until just before Christmas , will the Chancellor at least confirm that the November Budget will include saving from welfare reform ? in the Universal Credit Act 2025 , which pass before the summer recess , we reform the universal credit system to reduce the gap between what people on the health element and those on the standard element get . that reform will help more people into work , as well as the £ 1 billion package of measure to help people — particularly those who have be long - term unemployed — get back to work . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) say that that be spend . actually , get people into work and pay taxis , as well as pay less on benefit , be good for the economy and good for those people who get back into work . last Friday , I visit Demelza child ' s hospice , which do amazing work for child and their family , but it need certainty and sustainable funding to survive . will the Chancellor consider extend the child ' s hospice grant for the next five year , increase it in line with inflation , to help it to plan and deliver those vital service ? the Government be invest £ 100 million to improve hospice facility and a furth £ 26 million of revenue funding to support child and young people ' s hospice this year . that be the big investment in hospice in a generation . detail about the funding arrangement for 2026 - 27 will be set out by the Department of Health and Social Care in due course . pub be at the heart of the community in North Shropshire , whether community - own pub such as the White Lion in Ash and the Horse and Jockey at Northwood , the Bailey Head in Oswestry , which be the campaign for Real Ale ' s pub of the year , or attach to a microbrewery like the Stonehouse brewery in Morda . but all those hospitality business be buckling under the strain of high business rate , the national insurance increase and high energy cost . may I add my plea to those of my liberal Democrat colleague and ask the Chancellor that , in the upcoming Budget , measure be put in place to support our struggle hospitality industry ? as set out at the last Budget , we will introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure business with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 . the relief that we inherit from the previous Government be due to end entirely in April of this year . we extend it for one year to give we time to legislate for permanently low tax cut for pub across this country . I recently visit the ghost terminal at Ashford International train station , where five year ago Eurostar , shamefully , cease to have its service stop . a report last month find that bring back those international train to Ashford could benefit our local economy in Sussex and Kent by over £ 2 . 5 billion , which would mean more job and more visitor for my constituent in Hastings and Rye . will the Chancellor join I in call on the train operator and the rail regulator to grasp that opportunity for growth ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that she be do to help grow the economy in all part of the country , include Kent and Sussex . the Government have make significant commitment on the expansion of international rail service , and we be work closely with the german and swiss government on direct link between our country . work be under way to understand the prospect for expansion of the number of service on the channel tunnel rail link . I absolutely agree that new opportunity at Ashford and Ebbsfleet have huge potential to help grow the economy , give more opportunity for people in those community to access good job and other leisure opportunity . the 52 pub in my constituency provide vital community space , yet they tell I that this Government have hit they disproportionately hard with their increase in employer national insurance contribution , on top of soar energy price and as yet unfulfilled promise on business rate . ahead of the autumn Budget , will the Chancellor say what measure she will take to protect our local independent pub and small business ? I absolutely recognise that business face challenge , but they also have low borrowing cost because of the five cut in interest rate , which the Bank of England be able to make because of the stability that we have return to the economy . it would be good to have a bit more honesty from political party . if they oppose the national insurance increase , then they oppose the extra money for the national health service . if they stand up and say that , they might get a little more respect and credibility . in Macclesfield we be lucky to have a thriving life science sector . at AstraZeneca , we have 5 , 000 people employ in well - pay job across the pharmaceutical value chain . what be the Treasury and the Government do to ensure that we take advantage of the innovation we produce here in the UK for the benefit of our local life science economy ? my hon . friend be a proud advocate for his constituent in Macclesfield and be do great work to bring more investment into the local area . life science be one of the eight sector that this Government , as part of our modern industrial strategy , be champion . that be why we put record investment into research and development in the spending review early this year , and why we be support our university to help create more spinout to ensure that we can have more home - grow british business , as well as back the big business , such as AstraZeneca , that operate in his constituency . give that the Government be consider a dramatic increase in the landfill tax , how do the Chancellor think that this country will build the 1 . 5 million home we need by the end of the Parliament if we add £ 24 , 000 , on average , to the average house price ? how will that help my constituent to get a home ? there be a consultation go on and I welcome the hon . Gentleman and other feed into that . however , if he be serious about back the builder and not the blocker , why do the Liberal Democrats fail to support the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , both here and in the other House ? as the sixth rich economy in the world , we should not have 4 . 5 million child live in poverty . the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown have propose raise £ 3 billion by look at reform gamble taxation . will the Chancellor consider undertake those reform so that we can end the epidemic of child poverty ? the issue of child poverty be incredibly important to this Government , and the child poverty taskforce will report later this year . I would like to add that this be an important personal issue for I : I grow up in family with very little money and I receive free school meal as a child . for those child across the country who be live in poverty right now , I hope that they and their parent know that this Government be on their side and that we will do all we can to invest in our welfare system , in our economy and in ensure that more people can get into work so that we can get poverty down , rather than have it rise as it do under the previous government . hike excise duty by 14 % over the past two year be expect to raise £ 600 million for the Treasury in duty on spirit , but it have actually cost £ 600 million . with 70 % of spirit produce in Scotland , this be nothing short of a tax on Scotland . the Chancellor have 77 day to back Scotch , support Scotland and sustain growth in this iconic and entrepreneurial sector . will she therefore commit to reverse the Government ' s attack on a great scottish success story by bring down whisky duty in the Budget ? over 90 % of Scotch be export and be therefore not affect by the measure that the hon . Member have just mention , but it will be affect by be the big beneficiary of the trade deal with India , which be set to reduce tariff from 150 % to 75 % initially , and then to 40 % over time . this be what a Government get on with back the Scotch industry look like . I have be campaign for a long time on the reinstatement of tax - free shopping for foreign visitor , particularly those from Europe . recent evidence from business suggest that we be lose £ 6 billion of income from this potential change , and £ 500 million in extra vat generate from those tourist . will the Chancellor undertake to look at this matter again ? the potential exist for those high - spend tourist to benefit our hard - press hospitality industry , and that could be a quick win - win for this country . this matter be look at by the previous Government several time , and I understand that there be pressure for their Ministers to look at it again . they do so , and they come to the same conclusion , which be not to proceed with reintroduce it . the Bellfield interchange be situate on the A77 . its location have significant strategic importance in the south - west trunk road network , connect to the A71 , the A75 and the A76 , make it critical for transport and economic connectivity across the Ayrshire region and beyond . East Ayrshire council have previously submit a bid to the levelling - up fund under the previous Tory Government to upgrade the interchange , but it be reject . give the Chancellor ' s recent announcement of £ 66 million of UK Government investment in scottish transport infrastructure , will my hon . friend join I in call on the Scottish Government to invest in and agree to vital infrastructure project such as upgrade the Belfield interchange , to support the Ayrshire growth deal , to unlock growth , and to deliver job and prosperity across the region ? I agree with my hon . friend that it be critical that the scottish Government use the funding they have receive to invest in vital infrastructure project that support growth and put more money in people ' s pocket . rise — I be sorry , but we have to move on to the urgent question . Jaguar Land Rover Cyber - attack ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to make a statement on the cyber - attack on Jaguar Land Rover and on what assistance the Government be give to business to help protect they against cyber - attack . I welcome the Minister to his new job . thank you , Mr Speaker . I fully recognise the anxiety and deep concern that employee at Jaguar Land Rover and across the supply chain will be feel . the Government and the National Cyber Security Centre will do everything in our power to help resolve this as soon as possible . we be engage with JLR on a daily basis to understand the challenge that the company and its supplier be face , and we be monitor the situation closely . I have speak to the company myself , and I will have a further meeting with the chief executive officer later this week . I understand that the company have also invite local mp to a question and answer session this Friday . the National Cyber Security Centre have be work with Jaguar Land Rover since last Wednesday to provide support in relation to the incident . I be sorry that there be a limit to what I can say on the specific because I do not want to prejudice the ongoing investigation . the cyber - security of the UK , however , be a key priority for the Government — crucial to protect the public , our way of life and the successful grow economy . we have be take significant action to help protect business against cyber - attack . we be reduce cyber - risk across the economy by make technology more secure by design . that include the Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure Act 2022 , introduce by the previous Government , which require manufacturer to build security into the manufacture and operation of internet - connect device ; the software security code of practice , which set out how vendor and developer should make their software more secure ; and the AI cyber - security code of practice , which set out how AI developer should design and operate AI system securely . we be also provide business with the tool , advice and support to protect themselves from cyber - threat . that include the cyber governance code of practice , which show board and director how to effectively manage the digital risk to their organisation ; the highly effective cyber essential scheme to prevent common attack , reduce the likelihood of a cyber insurance claim by 92 % ; and a wide range of free tool and support from the National Cyber Security Centre , include training for board and staff , the " check your Cyber Security " tool to test it system for vulnerability , and the early warning system to get notify about cyber - threat to network . I urge all business to take up these tool and improve their cyber - defence . it be not for I to announce future business of the House , but when parliamentary time allow the Government will introduce the cyber - security and resilience Bill to raise cyber - security standard in critical and essential service , such as energy , water and the NHS . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question — as a north - west MP , you know what a large employer jlr be in the region . as we have hear , this serious cyber - attack on Jaguar Land Rover have stop production and halt sale , and staff have be instruct to stay at home . the car plant at Halewood in my constituency and in Solihull , and other production facility around the world , have be unable to operate . from what have be report , JLR shut down its IT system in response to the attack . I believe that dealership have be unable to register new car and — initially , at least — garage that maintain JLR vehicle be unable to order the part they need . the JLR Halewood plant in my constituency be an important and value employer . many of my constituent be employee , which be also the case for my neighbouring Merseyside mps . thousand of job in the supply chain have be affect . I be disappointed that despite the cyber - attack happen just over a week ago to one of our most important business , which have nearly 33 , 000 direct employee and , of course , a huge supply chain , no statement have be make to Parliament on what action have be take to help the company or to prevent future attack . the late attack raise wide issue follow on from the attack on Marks & Spencer . the two instance in themselves be very worrying . one would like to believe that all company review their cyber - security after the M & S attack . if these attack continue , there could be an ongoing and even more serious effect on our economy . what be the Government do to help protect our business from cyber - crime ? I have hear what the Minister have say today , but it be in our national security interest for they to work closely with business . be there an underlying weakness in how business be deal with cyber - security ? in that regard , we hear from Ciaran Martin , former head of the National Cyber Security Centre , on the " Today " programme this morning , suggest that company be perhaps focus more on protect customer datum at the expense of the security of their operation . this House need to hear more in the come month about what the Government be do to work with business and to help prevent these attack be successful , because they be a threat to our economy and to national security . first , I commend my hon . friend on seek this urgent question and you , Mr Speaker , on grant it . my hon . friend make the important point that Jaguar Land Rover be not only an iconic national brand , but a very significant employer — it employ 34 , 000 people in the UK , include in his constituency , and 39 , 000 worldwide . he be right that we need to ensure that cyber - security be something that every company in the land take seriously , and every public sector organisation . in my previous ministerial role I be conscious of the attack on the British Library , which be actually one of the most financially significant attack heretofore , and it point the way for some of the other issue arise across the economy , which be why we have be keen to bring forward a bill on this , as state in the King ' s Speech . we will introduce such a Bill " soon " — I think I can get away with that with the Chief Whip and the Leader of the House , although , in the word of Humpty Dumpty , when I use a word it mean precisely what I choose it to mean , no more and certainly no less . as my hon . Friend say , there be serious issue that we need to address across the whole of the economy to ensure that we get this right . my hon . Friend point to one person ; I point to another — Richard Horne , the chief executive officer of the National Cyber Security Centre — who recently stress that the UK face increasingly hostile activity in cyber - space . we simply can not afford any degree of complacency in this . there be major criminal operate in this space , as well as some malicious state actor , and some 40 % of company in the UK report last year that they have face some kind of cyber - attack . it be a very important issue that we take seriously . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) on secure this important urgent question . I welcome the Minister to his new role , although I will never be able to rival his literary quotation . this attack on Jaguar Land Rover be extremely concern . the impact on that world - lead business , and on its supplier and worker , have be significant . I hope that the whole House agree that we must use the full force of the state to crack down on cyber - criminal . I appreciate that the Minister be constrain in what he can say , but when be the Government and the National Cyber Security Centre inform of the attack ? what kind of support be the Government and law enforcement agency able to offer Jaguar Land Rover ? how much long do the Government expect the disruption , which be impact on the supply of vehicle , to continue ? the attack be just another in a series against british brand and iconic institution — the Minister say that 40 % of our business have be affect — include the attack early this year on Marks & Spencer . will he elaborate on what the Government be do to prevent future attack ? have he identify who be responsible for the attack ? can he rule out its be a state - sponsor attack ? if the group responsible for the attack on Jaguar Land Rover and Marks & Spencer be link , what progress have law enforcement agency make in pursue they ? I be not sure whether the shadow Minister be in a new role — indicate dissent . she be not ; I will not welcome she to her new role , then — I welcome she to the Dispatch Box none the less . she ask a series of question , and I will try to answer those that I can as precisely as possible . first , the shadow Minister ask when the NCSC be notify and engage . it have be engage since last Wednesday . we have an undertaking that when people get in touch with the NCSC , the response will be very immediate . the shadow Minister ask what engagement there be from the Government . the primary engagement be through the NCSC , which be fully engage and devote to the work . it be also in the public domain that the Information Commissioner ' s Office be notify . I should clarify that that be not because JLR be certain that there have be a data breach , but it want to ensure that it have dot every I and cross every t , which be why it notify the Information Commissioner ' s Office . the shadow Minister ask about a timeline for get this resolve . I wish that I could provide one , but I can not . I think she will understand why : this be a very live situation that have be ongoing for a week . I note the point that JLR have be make . as I say , there will be an invitation for all local mp — my hon . friend the Member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) should already have have one — for a Q & a session on Friday morning , when JLR hope that it will be able to provide more information . the shadow Minister ask what else we be do . this summer , the Home Office undertake a consultation on our policy on ransomware . I be not say that that relate specifically to this case — we do not know that yet and I be not come to any foregone conclusion — but that be one of the thing that we must address , and it be hearten to see resolute support from the vast majority of company in the UK for our ransomware policy . maybe we will come to that later . the hon . Lady ask whether I can say who be responsible . I be afraid that I can not . I note what be in the public domain , but I have no idea whether that be accurate and I do not want to impede the investigation . she ask whether the attack be state sponsor . again , I do not want to jump to conclusion , and I can neither confirm nor deny anything . she also ask whether the case be link with that of M & S . again , I can not answer that as fulsomely as I would wish , simply because I do not know , and I do not think anybody have come to any secure decision on that . in one sense , all cyber - attack be link , in that it be the same problem , which be relatively new . the previous Government be seek to tackle it , and we be seek to tackle it in broadly the same way . some of the technique use be remarkably old - fashioned , such as ring up helpline , which be design to be helpful . that be exactly the same as when News of the World be ring up mobile company and try to get pin to hack other people ' s phone . this be an old technique . the new bit be that sometimes people use AI - generate voice , which be remarkably accurate and can lead to further problem . I be not say that that be what happen in this case , but some of the pattern be across the whole sector . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) on secure this urgent question , and warmly welcome the Minister to his new role . this be an extraordinarily serious issue , and the Business and Trade Committee will soon table its recommendation on tackle economic harm such as this . many company such as JLR now confront a much big threat surface , and the peril of state - back threat . that be why this will be a much big issue in the future , and why company in this country will need more than new law . they will need new investment incentive to clean up legacy infrastructure that be currently not safe enough . when we take evidence from Archie Norman and Marks & Spencer in the wake of that cyber - attack , we be give a distinct impression that more could have be do by agency to help M & S . will the Minister reassure the House that all the lesson from how the M & S case be handle have be learn , and that the state will bend over backwards to ensure that JLR have every assistance it need to get back up and run , and to prosecute the guilty ? the single most important thing we can do be ensure that we end up prosecute the guilty and that people be send to prison , such as the gentleman — well , the person — in the United States of America who be recently send down for 10 year as part of one of these network , which be important . I be a Minister in the Department for Business and Trade , but the Minister for Security , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , who be on the Front Bench , be actively engage in these discussion , and we must ensure a cross - Government approach . I look forward to what we will hear from the Business and Trade Committee . I be intrigue by what my right hon . friend be say about investment incentive , and I hope he might come up with some clever idea that we could put into practice once he have produce his report . on the main point about whether we have learn all the lesson from M & S , I certainly think we have . I have read Archie Norman ' s evidence to the Committee , and I hope that M & S have also learn the lesson that he lay bare . I hesitate in try to make too immediate a connection between one case and another , because as my right hon . friend will know , I do not want to prejudge what have happen in this particular set of circumstance . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Minister to his new role . there have be a spate of cyber - attack on important UK company such as Jaguar Land Rover , on supermarket and on the Legal aid Agency . what be the Government do to restore public and , just as importantly , international trust in the UK ' s cyber - security network ? do the Government think that the attack have come from overseas ? that be the second time I have be ask whether this attack have come from overseas , although I suppose that be a slightly different question from one about state actor . again , I be not go to prejudge the investigation — I can tell that the hon . Gentleman know that , because he be smile . he refer to UK company , but be I speak to any of my counterpart in Europe , or in most country in the world , I would find that they be go through exactly the same issue . Qantas , Pandora , Adidas , Chanel , Tiffany & Co . , Cisco — all those company have have major attack over the past month , and unfortunately that be simply a part of modern business . it be a despicable practice and a set of criminal action . we must prosecute those who be responsible and ensure that they go to jail for a very long time , so that we can protect our industry in the UK , and co - operate with other international agency to ensure that we do the same around the world . I congratulate my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) on secure this urgent question . I use to represent the Halewood plant until boundary change , and hundred of my constituent work at that plant , with many more work in supplier company . they be at home and be pay at the moment , but the Sunday Times report that prospect of a quick end to the saga be limited , and that the worldwide shutdown be cost £ 72 million a day in lose sale . despite request , local mp have have no meaningful information from the company , although we have a 30 - minute Zoom call on Friday , which be a start . what can the Government do to ensure that this disaster be bring to a close as soon as possible ? these attack threaten our economy and our national security , so what help can the Minister offer the company and my constituent at this worrying time ? thing do not seem to be get any well . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for all the work that she and I do together , particularly on space , in my old job and in hers . she be an excellent Minister to do business with , and I slightly fear have she on the Back Benches as she be a very redoubtable person . many supplier , include Evtec , WHS Plastics , Sertec , OPmobility and a series of other , be in an even more complex situation than Jaguar Land Rover , and I will try to co - ordinate the activity that we be do in our Department to ensure that we provide every possible support to they . I note the tone in which my right hon . Friend say that MPs be get a half - hour Zoom call on Friday . I will try to ensure that all mp get the support they need , so that they can do the job of reassure their constituent . early today I make that point forcibly to JLR , and as I say , I intend to have a meeting with its chief executive later this week . when I possibly can I want to keep mps update , either individually in constituency , or the whole House . I call the Father of the House . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on survive the reshuffle . this Minister add to the general merriment of the nation , so we will miss he when he ' s go — [ Laughter . ] we ' re all mortal . may I ask a serious question about the public sector ? as it happen , I be an enthusiast for the Prime Minister ' s idea of a national digital ID card as a means of counter illegal working , but it raise a whole new spectre if ten of million of people have an ID card on their mobile phone in their pocket and malign force — Russia and elsewhere — seek to attack we . what work be the Government do with their Bill and in the National Cyber Security Centre to try to get this right ? the right hon . Gentleman be right on two point , and to take his point a little far , datum be a wonderful thing — a gold mine , in many way — but it be also a potential vulnerability . we must ensure that if we take people into a digital future , with digital ID card — I be not say that we be , but if we be to go down that route ; or wherever we go , for instance with a digital driving licence , which we will have soon — we must ensure that it be safe , secure , and that people ' s data be not imperille . I do not know what the right hon . Gentleman mean about I survive . I love he too . I warmly welcome the Minister to his place . in the light of the cyber - security breach survey publish in April 2025 , which report that 43 % of business and 30 % of charity experience a cyber - attack last year , what step be he take to strengthen national cyber - security ? how be the Government work with business and charity to improve prevention and ensure well intelligence - sharing , as a matter of national security ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who be on the Business and Trade Committee , which I will be before next week , I think . on ransomware , one of the question be whether we know the full extent of what be go on in the UK . that be why we have suggest mandatory reporting . it be interesting that more than 70 % of business in the UK agree with what be in the consultation that the Home Office produce in the summer , and I hope that we can introduce further measure when the Bill come forward . I have refer to some of the mean of provide support to business up and down the land , but I be happy to fill my hon . friend in with more detail , if she want to grab I afterwards . as have be say , Jaguar Land Rover be not the first british household name this year to experience cyber - attack . in a recent Business and Trade Committee meeting , the chairman of Marks & Spencer say that he wish that somebody would ride in the cab with they for this experience ; he feel like there be too much one - way traffic , and not enough dialogue between the Government and the business . can the Minister reassure we that the Department have learn those lesson ? can he reassure we that Jaguar Land Rover be have that two - way dialogue , and that someone be in the cab with it at the moment ? we want to make sure that be the case . as I have say , I have speak to Jaguar Land Rover , and I intend to have a further meeting with the chief executive later this week , though he be depart in November . two new Ministers from the Department for Business and Trade be here . our job and our absolute determination be to ensure that business can flourish in this country , because in the end , business largely pay the bill , keep the light on , keep the NHS functioning , and keep everything go . that be why we be determined to have a strong work relationship with business , in this and many other area . we have hear from my hon . friend and the Minister how wide the impact of the cyber - attack have be , across the economy . hon . member have mention the national security threat . the Minister give evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy in his previous role , and speak about his confidence in the " robust " contingency plan in place for critical national infrastructure , to quote a phrase he use . to what extent do he have the same confidence when it come to cyber - attack ? the evidence that my hon . friend mention relate to subsea cable , for which I think the situation be robust . in fact , we have another cut to one of the subsea cable during the summer month ; it be , I think , repair within eight day . we be one of the good country in the world at repair subsea cable , but we be also one of the more vulnerable country , because we be an island nation . I assure he that we three Ministers — the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , the Minister for Security and I — will apply exactly the same diligence and lack of complacency to this issue as to the issue of subsea cable . I thank the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) for seek and secure this urgent question . it be good to see the Minister in his place , with his perennially cheerful , tiggerish demeanour , follow the reshuffle . in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , we be extremely concerned about this incident . the Minister mention WHS Plastics , which be base in Minworth in my constituency . I speak to the chief executive yesterday in some detail ; he have 2 , 000 employee and eight plant , and the vast majority of his business go to Jaguar Land Rover . the Minister will know that throughout the west midland , there be probably more than 200 , 000 people in the supply chain who be directly affect , and I understand that all the factory globally have be shut down . may I ask two question to the Minister and support what be say by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) ? first , can we have an absolute assurance that we will have full help from all the relevant agency of the state , and that they be seriously and 100 % engage in all this ? secondly , will the Minister press for maximum transparency , so that the staff who be be send home in very large number , and who be naturally very anxious and worried about this issue , can be reassure to the great extent possible ? yes , all the agency will be engage to the full possible extent . as the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee say , we will bend over backwards and do everything we possibly can to ensure that this issue get resolve as soon as humanly possible ; I do not want to say when that will be , because I simply do not know . if the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) would like to pass on the detail of the chief executive of WHS Plastics , I be very happy to have a call with they , and with other in the supply chain , later this week . it be often not just individual company , but the whole supply chain that be affect . as for Tigger , I seem to recall that the final line in the song be : " the most wonderful thing about Tiggers be I ' m the only one ! " I thank my hon . friend the Member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) for secure this urgent question , and the Minister for come to the Dispatch Box . Jaguar Land Rover be a value employer in Wolverhampton North East and an iconic british brand , so the disruption to production and the impact on the wide supply chain have cause much concern . what action be be take to protect business and supply chain from ransomware and cyber - attack ? I lay out in my initial answer some of the thing that the Government be already engage in , such as the NCSC , which have have involvement with Jaguar Land Rover since last Wednesday . there be really good online aid that can help many company work through how they can protect themselves well . some of those thing be relatively simple , but some be more complex ; it depend on the size of the organisation . as I say , we have consult on ransomware . as we have say previously , pay the criminal do not get we out of the hole ; they be not to be trust , and people should be extremely cautious . we do not recommend people pay ransom in any circumstance . it do not solve the problem , and actually add to the business model of the criminal , whom we want behind bar . I welcome the Minister to his role , and thank he for recognise the anxiety of the staff in the supply chain . Jaguar Land Rover be a huge employer in my constituency , not least because I have the factory in Elmdon , which employ thousand , and there could be an effect on ten of thousand , through its supply chain . many of my constituent will be really anxious , not least because there be a lack of information at the moment . I echo the comment of the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) about briefing for mps . can the Minister reassure my constituent that this Government will give the NCSC all the resource it need to pursue the perpetrator ? I be more than happy to work with he on that . give the report of loss be make every day , have there be any request for financial support ? be he talk to Chancellor about anything like that , or be it too early to say ? I be tempt to say that it be too early to say , as the hon . Gentleman give I that get - out clause at the end . the main thing I want to ensure be that all mp have the information they need on a secure basis , so that they can provide reassurance to their constituent . I be sure that there will be all sort of rumour spread around , some of which may be very wide of the mark , and I want to ensure that JLR be able to provide information to everybody . we be go into recess next Tuesday ; otherwise , I would have be more than happy to gather mps to have these discussion in a private setting . it be probably good if we see how we go on Friday . I do not think that half an hour will suffice for a Zoom call with JLR ; I will make that point to the chief executive . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) for secure this urgent question , and welcome the Minister to his new role . jlr employ hundred of people directly in my constituency , and many more indirectly . this be an extremely concern time for they , and I hope that the Department will consider provide information directly to local mp , in addition to engage with the company . as have be say , this attack follow attack on Marks & Spencer , the NHS , the British Library and other public institution . I understand why the Minister have set out that the Government ' s focus be on ensure that company be well protect and report these kind of incident , but can he assure the House that all step be be take to identify area of critical national vulnerability in both the public and private sector , so that we can try to avoid these attack in the first place ? yes , I can assure my hon . friend that we do that . of course , I fully understand that this issue come on top of other issue for JLR this year , not least tariff in the United States of America . as my hon . friend know , the Prime Minister be very personally engage in make sure that we get a well deal with the United States , and be able to announce that in a JLR factory . I know that some voluntary redundancy be go through the normal business process at JLR at the moment ; that have nothing to do with this cyber - attack . however , I can give my hon . friend the assurance he ask for . Jaguar Land Rover be the large employer in the west midland , so every west midland constituency be impact by this cyber - attack . the attack on JLR be not the first of its kind , and it certainly will not be the last . increasingly , we be see state actor use criminal gang , whether they originate from Russia , North Korea or Iran , to get hard cash into their country . what more can the Minister and the state do to support our business with the robust defence that be require ? they be fight state , and they need this state right behind they . they certainly have this state right behind they . incidentally , I apologise to the right hon . gentleman : I think I visit his constituency during the recess , and he might have know about it only 10 minute before I arrive . we be look at digital inclusion issue . one thing that all business can do now be get a certificate for cyber - essential , which be a programme that help business to protect themselves well . I be very hesitant to jump to conclusion about overseas involvement in this situation at JLR , but of course the Government take very seriously the fact that there be undoubtedly foreign state actor who want to interfere in our business and , for that matter , in the way we do politic in this country . we need to keep our eye wide open for that . this cyber - attack be terrible news for Jaguar Land Rover and its supply chain . many of those company be base in and around my constituency . Pool Re be a publicly own insurance provider that provide insurance cover for physical terrorist attack , invest in terrorism reassurance initiative , and have £ 2 . 3 trillion of asset on its book . have the Government consider extend the reach of that publicly back insurance scheme to cyber - incident such as this one ? my hon . friend have stump I there . I do not have the faint idea . I will have to write to he with an answer to that one . I welcome the Minister to his new responsibility , and on behalf of the many JLR employee in my constituency , welcome anything the Government can and will do to get JLR back to business as usual as soon as possible . on our broad defence , the Computer Misuse Act 1990 be 35 year old , and there be many who believe that its provision impede the work of cyber - security professional almost as much as , if not more than , cyber - criminal . will he take this incident as an incentive to look again at the provision of that Act , and to update it , as we need to , to make sure that cyber - security professional can help company such as JLR to deal with incident just like this one ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman make a very good point about legislation that be somewhat out of date and need renew . that be one of the reason why , as we state in the King ' s Speech , we will introduce a new cyber Bill . I see the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , nod . if we do not do that properly , I be sure that the right hon . and learn Gentleman will table an amendment to the Bill when it be debate . I congratulate the Minister on his new role . I be sorry that we never have the opportunity to welcome he to the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee when he be at the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , but I believe I see the new artificial intelligence and cyber Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , sit on the Front Bench , and I look forward to welcome and congratulate he . the devastating JLR cyber - attack be one of a series of cyber - attack that have be wreak havoc on british business and consumer and undermine public confidence . will the Minister confirm my understanding that neither JLR nor Marks & Spencer be deem to be provider of essential service under cyber legislation , and be therefore not require to meet the high level of cyber - security and reporting requirement ? if that be the case , will that change under the new cyber - security and resilience Bill , which he mention ? if not , how will he improve cyber - resilience in our industry and society without such measure ? it be interesting , be it not ? my hon . friend make a very good point . there be a balance act for we to achieve : we do not want to overburden business with requirement , but we want to make sure they take every action to ensure they be properly protect . I will write to my hon . friend if I have get this wrong , but my understanding be that those company be not presently include . I be afraid that she will have to wait for the Bill , but our intention be that it will directly relate to thing like energy and water supply — drinking water and thing like that . as I say , it be a balance act , try to make sure that industry have the freedom to operate as it should while embody the good practice . one other thing I will say be that all business , whether large or small , should avail themselves of the early warning tool available from the National Cyber Security Centre whenever they think that they may have have an attack . it be really important that we have a real idea of the prevalence of this problem across the whole sector , and that we be able to join up the dot between different incident . I welcome the Minister to the world of " neither confirm nor deny " , though I fear it may cramp his inimitable style somewhat . do he accept that there be broadly three category of hacker ? there be the show - off , who be aim to boost their ego in the online world ; the wrecker , who be usually work on behalf of hostile country or political ideology ; and the extortionist to whom he refer early , who be out to blackmail people and relieve they of large amount of money . in every case , though , there be always the anxiety that people ' s personal data be go to be compromise and publicise . to that end , be the Minister really satisfied that so many Government service that deal with personal datum — the late be his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs — insist that people go online to supply that datum to Government ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point about personal datum . when I be the data Minister , that be one of the thing I be try to push very strongly — there be no point in try to get people to give datum if it be not then secure . that be the single most important part of what we have to do , not least because if people do not trust that their data be go to be secure , it be perfectly understandable that they be not go to surrender it . that do not just apply to Government , although it be very important in Government ; it apply across all sort of different company . I slightly take issue with the right hon . Gentleman ' s delineation of those three group ; I think there be just one , which be a bunch of criminal . their intent sometimes mix a desire for cash with a desire for some kind of spurious infamy , but I just think of all of they as criminal . as for my inimitable style , I can neither confirm nor deny it . I agree with those member who have raise concern about the impact that this cyber - attack might have on job . it also have an impact on our reputation as a country when two iconic brand basically have to go offline . I do not expect that this will be the last attack on either a retailer or an automotive company , but the risk to automotive company be particularly acute , because go forward , car be basically go to be computer on wheel . customer will be concern about what attack mean for their security , but also about what the impact on the automate feature within the car mean for driver safety . the Minister say that the UK be increasingly a target ; be that because of the interest in the UK , or because we be more susceptible ? no , I mean that every country in the world be increasingly susceptible , not just the UK . this be a grow business , and the bad thing we could do would be to feed that business model . I would urge caution about one thing . it may well be that we do not know all the incident that have take place , because understandably , lot of company will not want to make they know publicly if they feel that they have manage to deal with the issue fairly swiftly . that be why , as I say , we consult on the issue of ransomware early this summer , and I be gratify by the response we have from more than 70 % of business . fundamentally , this be a question about resilience across british industry . these attack be cost british industry million of pound a day . what be the Government do to facilitate knowledge - sharing within industry to boost resilience and guard against operational technology attack ? I know from personal experience that people in the cyber industry like to share information together , but require a forum to do so . the hon . member be right . for that matter , I suspect that every single Member of the House will have have some kind of attempt cyber - attack , whether that be phishe or vishing or whatever it may be on their mobile phone , where something come up that look remarkably possible . then you say to yourself , " oh , no , HMRC probably wouldn ' t ask I to do that . " I urge all member , incidentally , to take their own personal cyber - security seriously , and the House provide facility for that . one other thing that we can do be for all company to follow the cyber governance code of practice and provide board training . the more that board member understand these issue , the well . I welcome the Minister to his role . previously , I inadvertently suggest that he be not a national treasure , and I would like to set the record straight on that one . More and more often , business and charity in my constituency of Harlow be reliant on the internet for sale , for trade and for human resource service . what reassurance and advice can the Minister give to charity and business in Harlow , if they be worried that they might be the next victim of such attack ? basically , every organisation in the country should be consider whether they might be the next under attack . it be possible that there might already have be an attempt attack on they . obviously , iconic brand such as M & S and JLR be possible candidate in that sense , but I urge all organisation to take these issue seriously , because the cost be dramatic , both financially and in staff power . Cyber - security cost be rarely take into account by any company , but for a company such as JLR , such cost should be easily absorb because of its profit margin . sme do not have that luxury . their profit margin will not necessarily cover the cost , and often they hold just as much personal and financial datum . the Government should be come alongside those business and assist they to ensure that their security be industry - standard and that they be secure . can the Minister give I an update on that ? the hon . member be absolutely right that it be not just about big company , list company or , for that matter , big organisation in the public sphere ; it be also about much small one , which may have all sort of different attack . I be not sure whether she be ask for financial support . indicate assent . ah , she be . I see the nod . I be not sure how Hansard record a nod , other than the fact that I have now say it . the important point be make sure that everybody have an understanding that cyber - security be important to every single organisation , big or small , and the service of the state be there to help . I call Luke Pollard . [ interruption . ] sorry , Richard Foord . the Minister talk about a cross - Government approach , and last week the Ministry of Defence stand up the cyber and specialist operation command , build on the foundation of strategic command and bring together more than 26 , 000 specialist . can the Minister comment on what collaboration exist between official at the Department for Business and Trade and those work in this area in the MOD ? the primary relationship be between my Department , because we have responsibility for business and make sure that they can prosper in the future , the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , as represent by my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) here , and the Minister for Security in the Home Office , but the hon . Member make a good point . the MOD have an equal responsibility for ensure that we be all secure . Mr Speaker , I be sure that some kind of digital identification service will be available for identify the right MP to call . finally , I call Jim Shannon . always rear gunner . I be pleased to see the Minister in his position . it be well earn , and we be pleased to see he where he be . he will be aware that cyber - attack on Marks & Spencer and Co - op have leave many people concerned about the security of their information online . this attack on Jaguar will heighten those concern , and business in my constituency have tell I that . I have be contact by people who be concerned about the ramification of a cyber - attack on the Government ' s system , particularly in health . what discussion have be hold with Cabinet colleague on the robustness of cyber - defence , and what information can be share with private business to help they defend themselves against these criminal that we all fear ? in fact , the first of these big cyber - attack be on the British Library , which be an arm ' s length body of the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , so some of these lesson be teach immediately to Government . the hon . member be absolutely right , and we need to make sure across every Department that not only be datum — personal datum and all other kind of datum — secure where it need to be , if it be not open - source , but that cyber - attack can be rebuff , spot and prevent at all cost . that be an ongoing piece of work between the different part of Government . when we be able to bring forward the cyber Bill in the very near future — sorry , soon — I hope that we will be able to address some of these thing and discuss they in the round in the House . Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 23 June , on the Chagos Agreement , HC 1097 ; correspondence from the Foreign Affairs Committee to the Minister of State for Europe , North America and UK Overseas Territories , on environmental protection and the Chagos Agreement , report to the House on 8 September ; correspondence from the Minister of State for Europe , North America and UK Overseas Territories to the Foreign Affairs Committee , on the oral evidence session on the Chagos Agreement of 23 June 2025 , report to the House on 15 July . ] the reason amendment in the name of Kemi Badenoch have be select . I congratulate the Minister on his new position . I beg to move , that the Bill be read a second time . on 22 May , the Prime Minister sign a landmark treaty with the Republic of Mauritius that guarantee the continued UK operational control of Diego Garcia for the next 99 year and beyond . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? so soon ! I congratulate my hon . friend on his recent appointment . it be important , right at the outset , that we understand that there have be almost no change in position . I refer he to the comment of the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) in 2023 , when he state that his " primary objective be to ensure the continue effective operation of our defence facility on Diego Garcia . " — [ Official Report , 13 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 151 . ] can my hon . friend confirm that that have not change ? order . I know that the hon . Member also want to make a speech . I would not like he to use up his whole speech in an intervention in the first 10 second of the debate . it be a timely intervention . I be happy to confirm that this precise deal deliver on the objective as originally set out when the Conservatives be in government . it secure the continued operation of the UK - US military base . rise — to be fair , I will give way to one Opposition Member , and then I will make some progress . I give way to the former Deputy Prime Minister . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment . I have not intend to intervene so early , but I will , give that the record of the previous Government have come up . can he confirm whether it be the case , as be the position under the previous Government , that we will retain sovereignty after 99 year on a rolling basis ? can he confirm the basis on which he be compensate the Mauritians , because it certainly be not the case that the last Government would have agree to a remotely similar sum be pay ? on this , as on so many other measure , there be an enormous gap between the negotiating position set out under the last Government and the total capitulation by Labour when they come into office . to borrow a phrase , if the right hon . Member show I his , I will show he mine . the whole point be that our deal be publish . if he would like to go into the file and dig out his deal and publish it , we would be able to see where this deal have enhance those protection , secure the operation of the base and get a well deal for the british people . I would be very happy if he would like to go into his file and publish the deal . rise — I will come back to the former Deputy Prime Minister and then I will make some progress . the Minister invite I to respond to he . he need to appreciate that there be an enormous difference between a tough negotiating position in the british national interest and the capitulation of the Government ' s deal . I do not think the right hon . Gentleman want to show I his draft deal , and there be a very good reason for that : this deal , this treaty and this Bill improve on that deal . rise — rise — I say I would take one intervention from each side of the House . I have do that , so I will make some progress , but I be certain that member will get another chance in a moment . this treaty be indispensable to keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad . it be an expression of our unbreakable defence and intelligence bond with the United States . it strengthen and extend our power to respond to terrorist and hostile state , wherever they may be . it protect some of the world ' s busy trade route , on which british business and consumer rely . it be a long - term investment in our core national interest , and it will benefit british people for generation to come . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress , but I will be happy to give way in a moment . before I start get into the detail , I want to recognise up front the Chagossians affect by decision take by Britain many year ago . we recognise in the preamble to the universal deep regret over what happen . it be acknowledge on the face of the treaty , and I know there be cross - party support for the Chagossians , although there be a range of view on the deal within the chagossian community . I want to place that on the record right at the start of the debate — [ interruption . ] I will return to the Chagossians in a moment . both Houses have now have the opportunity to scrutinise the treaty under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who be sit next to I , give evidence to three parliamentary Committees during the scrutiny period , allow member of this House and the other place to fully interrogate the detail of the treaty . the International Agreements Committee conclude that if the treaty be not ratify , the future of the base on Diego Garcia would be at great risk . the purpose of this Bill be to make the necessary change to domestic law to implement the treaty , so that it can be ratify and bring into force . let I remind the House why we need to secure this treaty . the Diego Garcia base be central to our national security — I know that all member of this House will recognise that very simple fact . will the Minister give way on that point ? I be go to make a wee bit more progress , but I always like give way to a Luke , and I will do so in a bit — do not worry — but not quite yet . I pay tribute to all member of the House who have take the time to scrutinise the treaty in detail . allow I to set out why it be so vital . the importance of the base can not be overstate . the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia have play a vital role in defend the UK and its ally for over 50 year . the base play a key role in operation that support UK force and our ally across the middle east , east Africa and south Asia . its deepwater port , airfield , and advanced communication and surveillance capability , give the UK and our ally crucial strategic capability , which have play a key role in mission to disrupt high - value terrorist , include Islamic State threat to the United Kingdom . but the base on Diego Garcia be under threat . have we not sign the treaty , we could have face further legal ruling against we within week , because the negotiation begin by the Conservatives have be stay . further legal ruling might have include arbitrary proceeding against the UK under annex 7 of the UN convention on the law of the sea , know as UNCLOS . will the Minister give way ? in a moment . I will come to the hon . gentleman — he should not worry . a judgment from such a tribunal would be legally bind on the UK . it would impact on our ability to protect the electromagnetic spectrum from interference , and impair our ability to ensure access to the base by air and sea , to patrol the maritime area around the base and to support the base ' s critical national security function . my hon . friend have speak about the important capability of this vital US - UK base . do he agree that it would be dangerous and counterproductive to put those capability at any risk — certainly if that could have happen in a matter of week or month ? I agree , and it be precisely the reason why the Conservative Government start the negotiation in the first place . you do not accidentally rock up one day to the Foreign Office and decide to start international negotiation ; you do so because there be a clear risk to the future of the military base . that be why the Conservatives start the negotiation , why they have 11 round of negotiation , and why we have to conclude the deal . will the Minister give way ? as I have take one intervention from this side of the House , I be happy to take another from the Opposition Benches . the International Court of Justice ruling be not bind . it be not in law . we do not have to abide by it . why be we give away british territory to Mauritius and then rent it back ? there be no need for we to do so . why be we do it ? I have a lot of time for the right hon . Gentleman . the provision of those judgment affect the operation of the base — that be what be important here . it be also about the extension of the judgment , because other power could be use on the basis of those judgment . that be the reason that the Conservatives start the negotiation . [ interruption . ] if they would like to explain that there be a well reason that they start the negotiation — if it be not to ensure the security of this vital base — they be welcome to do so . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Gentleman would like to explain why the Conservatives start the negotiation , I be happy to give way . I thank the Minister for give way , and I welcome he to his new position . he keep say " could " , " if " and that thing " might " have happen . will he accept that the legal judgment that have be cast down , which he be use as evidence , be not bind ? do he accept that when he talk about our deal — in other word , the last Government ' s deal — he be actually be a bit duplicitous ? there be no deal , because we end the negotiation . I think the opposition have get their attack line sort , but not the reason why they start the negotiation . we end they ! order . I do not like the word " duplicitous " , and I definitely do not like the carrying on afterwards . I be sure that " duplicitous " will not be say again today . thank you , Mr Speaker . I will make some progress , but I will take member ' intervention in just a wee moment . [ interruption . ] the shadow Foreign Secretary will get a go in a moment , but if she want to continue shout at I , she be more than welcome to do so ; I will make some progress in the meantime . I hope she understand that this debate be well approach in a good - natured way , and I be certain that she will be do so , with less shouting . will the Minister give way ? as I just mention — the hon . Gentleman might have miss it — I will give way in a moment , but I will now make some progress . court and international body be already make decision that undermine our position . other would have follow suit , take we down a path towards make the base inoperable . this government will not allow that to happen . there have be a wealth of misinformation on these legal point , and those who have suggest that the UK should simply ignore international law fail to recognise the true impact of these cascade adverse ruling , which would have not only impede our ability to control and operate the base , but would have swiftly undermine our ability to control the water , the air and the electromagnetic spectrum on which the base rely . such ruling would have fundamentally undermine the very capability that make the base so uniquely valuable to the UK and the US , our ally . this treaty eliminate that legal threat . under the treaty , the UK will retain all the right and authority necessary for full operational control of Diego Garcia . it provide for unrestricted use of the base . will the Minister give way ? in just one moment . the treaty provide for control over the movement of all person and good on the base , and for control over the electromagnetic spectrum use for communication . it ensure that nothing can be build within a buffer zone of 24 nautical mile without our say so , and it deliver an effective veto on any development in the Chagos archipelago that threaten the base — something that the previous Government fail to secure in their negotiation . it prohibit foreign security force from establish a presence on the outer island . I congratulate the Minister on his new position may I get one little moment of agreement here ? the Government say they abide by the law . give the opt - out that we have , the original judgment be specifically not find in law , because we do not allow the ICJ to rule on Commonwealth issue . the question be a matter of law , so if the Minister be suggest to the House that other action would have take place , they would have be unlawful . in what world be it necessary to block off those by assume that this be law ? it be not lawful . the Foreign Office and the Government publish the Government ' s legal position when the treaty be lay . that assessment say : " the longstanding legal view of the United Kingdom be that the UK would not have a realistic prospect of successfully defend its legal position on sovereignty " in any future sovereignty litigation . that important and long - stand view predate this government . again , it be one of the reason why the Conservative Government begin the negotiation and hold 11 round . do the Minister not think it be the height of hypocrisy for those in the last Government , who negotiate 85 % of this treaty over 11 round , to wait until they be in opposition to make these claim , none of which they make during their negotiation ? I thank my hon . friend for that . it must be quite a freeing experience , because we now know that nearly every single legacy Tory MP during the last government — whose Ministers start the negotiation , negotiate a deal , and make statement and answer question in this House — be not actually support their Front Benchers , which be what we see , but be deeply upset with the Conservative Government . if that be their genuine position , not just their political position now , they should have raise those concern with the Foreign Secretary at the time . they should have be clear about it , but I believe that not many of they do so , and that tell a story . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his promote position . if he be ask the House to thank he for negotiate what we already have , I think our thank will be a long time in come , because the outcome of the negotiation be pretty poor as far as this country be concern . surely we have give away what be of most strategic importance in this space as we now have to notify the Mauritian Government any time we want to do anything there . we do not currently have to do that , and therefore the element of surprise have be lose . I have a lot of time for the hon . Gentleman , but I be afraid he be incorrect about the notification criterion . there be a lot of fake news out there — which I and the Minister beside I , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , have correct in this House before — about the suggestion that pre - notification of action be require ; it be not . as be explicitly set out in the document , we do not need to undertake pre - notification . it be establish under the criterion that post - action notification for overseas basis be normal , and that would be normal for the UK and our overseas ally that have overseas basis . it be not unusual , and he will be familiar with the fact that there be further international reporting of any military action . it be important that we go on the fact . some people be worried about the situation that the hon . Gentleman outline , but I can reassure he that they do not need to worry about it , because what he say be not accurate . I sincerely congratulate my hon . friend on his new position . I have to say to he that I have never find it a satisfactory basis for argument or position in this Chamber to say that those on the other side be do it . however , I do think it be important that we be consistent . when we be in opposition and the Conservatives be in government , they make the Foreign Secretary a Member of the House of Lords , and we create about it . we shout about how someone in a senior Cabinet position should be directly accountable to this House . we now have a super - active Attorney General make many controversial decision . do my hon . friend agree with I that we should be make the case that the Attorney General should be in this House , not the other place ? that be not a matter for I in relation to this Bill , but my hon . friend have put his view on the record , and I be certain that other on the Front Bench will have hear what he have say . rise — I do say that I would give way to a Luke . the Minister have make it absolutely apparent that this be about the long - term security of the base , so could he explain why , under article 13 , if after 99 year the Mauritians decide not to negotiate , the base will just stop . we will get first refusal , but we can easily see that the Chinese would outbid we because we in this country decide that that be not affordable . we be a hostage to fortune , and that base will crumble . he have not secure the base , he have just defer the issue by four generation , and this House will then have to decide what to do . it be good that the hon . Member have read the detail of the treaty . as he will know that , at the end of the initial 99 - year lease , a first refusal will be offer to the United Kingdom . that be the right place to be , and that offer will mean — as he describe it , in four generation ' time — there be a decision for this House to take about what it want to do base on the circumstance at the time . this give we first refusal , so we can conceivably see that full control of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia could extend well beyond the 99 year I have mention . do the Minister accept that we own the freehold of the Chagos island , and do he agree with I that in the mid - 1960s we pay Mauritius £ 3 million in old money — some 80 million quid in today ' s money — to cede all future claim over sovereignty ? the legal analysis that this Government have receive , and indeed that the last Government receive , show that the position of UK sovereignty over the Diego Garcia military base be put the base ' s operation at risk . the reason why the last Government begin the negotiation be to secure the continue operation of the base , and it be the reason why we be do so . secure the future operation of that base be the primary concern of this Government . indeed , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , it be the primary concern of the last government as well . that be what this deal secure , and it be really important that that be understand clearly : the base be what matter in relation to its continue operation , and that be what this deal secure . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the right hon . Gentleman first and then come to the hon . Gentleman . could I ask the Minister to return to the human cost and the human story ? in 1968 , the Chagossians first begin to be remove from Diego Garcia and the archipelago . their treatment be abominable and disgusting by any stretch of the imagination . it need a bit more than a statement of regret ; it need a full - hearted apology to all the chagossian people for the way they be treat . since there be a legal judgment that the Chagos island in their entirety , include the archipelago and Diego Garcia , should return to Mauritius , be this treaty not just complete work that be not properly do in the 1960 ? would the Minister confirm that the question of return to live on the outer island be agree , but be clear about the Chagos islander who want to return to Diego Garcia , either to visit or to reside , in the future ? history have treat they badly , and that need to put it right . order . I always respect the right hon . Gentleman , and I could put he down to speak because of his knowledge — if he want I to , I can certainly add he to the list — but it would be well if we have short intervention . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman about the way the Chagossians be treat . for those who have a copy of the treaty to hand , part of the preamble say that the party be " conscious that past treatment of Chagossians have leave a deeply regrettable legacy , and commit to support the welfare of all Chagossians " . that be in the treaty because their treatment be unacceptable , as he have explain , and it have cause a legacy of pain and suffering for that community . it be the reason why the Foreign Office Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , have engage so much with the different view of a range of chagossian voice in this debate . I will come on to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question when the intervention slow down a wee bit but , to get ahead of that , people will be able to visit Diego Garcia . chagossian will be able to visit Diego Garcia as part of this treaty , which they be not currently able to do , but they will not be able to reside on Diego Garcia . they will be able to do so on some of the outer island , for which the provision will be different , but the military base be a military base for a reason , and although people will be able to visit , they will not be able to reside there . I will come back to that in due course . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . member do not mind , I will come back to he when I deal with the Chagossians later , but in the meantime I be happy to take the other intervention . I be grateful to the Minister for give way on the negotiation . he be make great play of the fact that the previous Government start the negotiation and that there be 11 round of they . be he not aware that , in 1965 , the United Nations pass a resolution say that we should enter into conversation with Argentina over the Falkland Islands . those negotiation go on for 17 year and end in 1981 . in 1982 , we all know what happen . so it be not where we start ; it be where we finish . I say politely to the hon . gentleman — for whom I have a lot of time , and I respect his military service — that that comparison we have see of the British Indian Ocean Territory with the Falkland Islands be shameful . I have see the tweet from the conservative party ask , with a map of the Falkland Islands , " be they next ? " — a shameful comparison , which stoke the flame of division and threaten the sovereignty of such overseas territory . let I be clear , as my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth from the Foreign Office have be clear at the Dispatch Box : there be no change or implication for any other british overseas territory . indeed , the british overseas territory support the deal . I hope that we will not need to revisit this again , but any implication that seek to apply the experience of BIOT to other overseas territory be unhelpful to they . I be certain that the hon . Gentleman wish to create no question mark over those overseas territory . to go back to the point that the Minister be make early about control , can he confirm to the House that , contrary to the reason amendment in the name of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , we be not cede control of the Diego Garcia military base , consistent with clause 3 ? my hon . friend be exactly right . on the reason amendment , my colleague who be to conclude the debate , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , will respond to some of the detail of the reason amendment select by Mr Speaker . however , there be a lot of misinformation about this treaty , and I believe that in some case it be deliberate misinformation to confuse the picture . clearly , secure the operation of the base be the priority of this Government and of this treaty . indeed , I believe in good faith that it be the priority of the previous Government as well , which be why they start the negotiation and hold they for 11 round , and why we conclude they , because we agree with the previous Government that secure the future operation of the base be the priority . that be why they start they ; that be why we complete they . the Minister have already outline the support of the british overseas territory . will he please remind we of who else support the Bill ? who support it and who else oppose it , in addition to the conservative party ? I will come to the level of international support in a moment , but our ally back this Bill and support it strongly . when we look at which column people choose to be in — the column of those in support of the Bill , with our ally , with India , the United States and other , or the column of country and people who oppose it — I know which side I be on . I be on the side of our ally . it be up to each of the opposition party to choose whether they oppose the Bill and to decide which column they be in . that be a choice not for I , but for they . only one column have our ally in , include our principal security partner , the United States . it be on the side of the treaty . I have long be interested in Diego Garcia , not least because I be one of the few member of Parliament who have visit it , 40 year ago with the Defence Committee . may we get some certainty ? every time we mention the £ 35 billion estimate of the Government Actuary ' s Department , the Minister ' s colleague , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , brush it aside and say that he do not recognise the number . give that we be spend a lot of taxpayer ' money on this — something we already own — will he tell the House in detail how much the agreement will cost we over its lifetime ? I be grateful to the Father of the House for help I to get back on track with my speech , because that be the topic of my next section . I will answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question in my remark , but if a bit be miss , he may ask to intervene on I again . we have hear some outrageous claim artificially boost the cost of this deal . it will cost an average of £ 101 million per year in today ' s money . that be an investment in today ' s money of £ 3 . 4 billion over 99 year . that have be rigorously calculate , base on net present value , the methodology endorse by the Government Actuary ' s Department and the Office for Budget Responsibility . all the associate costing have be lay previously before the House and be explain in full at the time of signature . crucially , the exaggerated number that have be cite ignore inflation , the OBR deflation mechanism and the Green Book . the Government have secure a strong deal . I remind those who criticise it that the previous Government know full well that the status quo be dangerous and unsustainable — that be why they enter into negotiation in the first place , why they hold 11 round of negotiation under successive Prime Ministers , Foreign Secretaries and Attorneys General , and why the Conservatives have never be able to provide serious alternative to this deal . rise — rise — I be happy to give way to the hon . Gentleman and then to my hon . friend . can the Minister point to any other country in the world that have use NPV to give away sovereignty ? as far as I be aware , there be none , so why be we pioneer that way forward ? this deal secure the base . the calculated value of the deal use the Green Book . other country look at overseas basis that they rent and make the calculation base on their national accounting standard . we base it on the Green Book . indeed , the Green Book be update by the previous Government and have be use for such decision for the past 20 year . rise — I will return to the Green Book in a moment , but will give way first to my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) . I be try to be fair to everyone . will the Minister place that £ 101 million in context ? perhaps the US or other nation have enter into such agreement . will he make reference to the value for money that we receive for the deal ? the deal represent broadly 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . the total deal represent less than the cost of the unusable personal protective equipment acquire by the previous Government and burn during the first year of the pandemic . a helpful comparator useful for the House to know about be the french base in Djibouti . recently , France agree a deal with Djibouti worth € 85 million per year to rent a base . Diego Garcia be a large — 15 time large — more capable and more strategically locate military asset and , importantly , it be not next to the chinese naval base that sit next to the french one in Djibouti . as a comparison , that be useful for people to understand in term of present value . will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the former Defence Minister . I congratulate the Minister on his promotion , but must say how sorry I be that his first outing have be to defend this load of nonsense . what do he say to the UK Statistics Authority and to the Government Actuary ' s Department , which appear to have a very different view of the costing of this to the one that he have just outline ? be it not the case that what he have say represent a load of accounting double - speak and be dubious , to put it politely and in parliamentary term ? that be not quite correct . indeed , unfortunately , this be not my first outing . my first outing be at Defence question yesterday , support british job in the defence sector and celebrate the £ 10 billion frigate deal that this Government achieve . my second outing be yesterday afternoon with the statement on the defence industrial strategy , make the case for more investment in british business . my third outing , though , be here today , secure the most vital military base that the UK and the US operate together . it be absolutely right that , as part of it , we present the costing to Parliament . it be also precisely right that those be review properly by the Government Actuary ' s Department and the Office for Budget Responsibility . that have happen , and that be why we have be able to use the figure with certainty . the costing be also entirely consistent with the Green Book . the Green Book point be a useful one to dwell on for one moment , because if the policy of the conservative party be not to use Green Book calculation for long - term investment — the same Green Book use for costing of our nuclear deterrent or pension — I want to understand how much spend the opposition be now commit to . in how many other example would the Green Book no long apply ? what be their new accounting principle and what would be the increase cost to the public purse ? how many more people will pay increase taxis , because of their disapplication of the Green Book principle ? those be entirely fair question . the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , sign the reason amendment , so surely he would be able to say how many other area the Green Book no long apply to . perhaps the Opposition Front Benchers will be able to specify any other area that they no long believe that the Green Book apply to . we calculate our figure base on the Green Book , and that be why we be confident in they . rise — I will take two more intervention , and then I will make some progress . I be aware that the debate be one that people want to speak in . if the Minister be such a big fan of the social time discount method that have be apply , will he tell the House where the social time discount method have be use in other part of Government to generate net present value ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have publish the full methodology , and that the social time preference rate be only one part of the calculation that we have use ; we have also use the OBR ' s inflation deflator mechanism as well . he will also know that we publish the full costing at the point of the treaty be apply . rise — I will make some progress , if I may . rise — I will make a little bit more progress and then I will come back to the hon . Gentleman . [ interruption . ] I can hear the shadow Foreign Secretary have go back to she shout again , but it be still not the polite way of run the debate . let I keep go . it be leave to this Government to finish what our predecessor be unable to deliver . in do so , we have secure a much strong deal that will protect our interest well into the next century . let I remind the House of the international context . the ruling of the International Court of Justice against the UK be a low moment for our country globally . it leave our ally fearful that we might lose control of the base , it leave our adversary with opportunity to exploit , and it tarnish our reputation in the global south . in contrast , as we have hear on countless occasion from a range of colleague , this deal have be welcome wholeheartedly by our ally and the wide international community . do the Minister agree that it be completely wrong for the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and Reform UK to claim that President Trump do not support this deal , when he say it be a " very strong " deal that be secure for a " very long " time ? in support of the deal , the US Defence Secretary , Pete Hegseth , put it well when he say : " Diego Garcia be a vital military base for the US . the UK ' s ( very important ) deal with Mauritius secure the operational capability of the base and key US national security interest in the region . we be confident the base be protect for many year ahead . " President Trump have describe the deal as " very long term " and " very strong " . that follow a rigorous US inter - agency process , involve the whole of the US security apparatus , both under the previous Biden Administration and the current Trump Administration . this involve the Department of Defence , the National Security Council and the intelligence agency , include the CIA . do Conservative Members say that they do not trust the assessment of the CIA , the US and all the security apparatus ? the deal secure the use of the base — they be happy with it and we be happy with it . our five Eyes partner recognise the benefit of the treaty for our collective security . the deal be support by Japan , South Korea and India . it be also a deal publicly welcome by the African Union , the UN Secretary General and the Commonwealth . I turn now to the issue of Chagossians , which need to be raise as well . while the negotiation be necessarily conduct on a state - to - state basis , we be alive to the diverse view of Chagossians about their future , and we have the utmost respect for their past suffering . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will come back to the hon . gentleman in a moment . although the Chagossians could not be part of the negotiation as they be conduct on a state - to - state basis , both the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , and Foreign and Commonwealth Development official have meet and have regular meeting over the past year , and stay engaged with their diverse view . there be diverse view within the chagossian community that be strongly hold , and we have listen and respect those . as some member laugh about the nature of the 99 year and other member talk about the sum of money involve , I ask all of we to look at the Public Gallery to remind ourselves that there be chagossian here today who feel deeply aggrieve by the deal . they feel that the Foreign Office and this Government have not go above and beyond to consult all the group involve . the Minister say that this deal do not refer to other overseas territory , but the principle of self - determination of our overseas territory ' citizen — order . intervention need to be brief . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s argument . it be the reason why , right up front , before I go into the military utility of the base at Diego Garcia , I want to speak about the Chagossians . it be important . I will come on to the engagement that the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , have have in this respect , but I understand the strength of feeling that the hon . Gentleman describe . I will come to the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , and then I will make progress . I be most grateful to the Minister for give way . I be afraid my question go back to the cost of the deal , which will hang around the Government ' s neck like an albatross for the rest of their time in office . we know that the Government Actuary say the gross cost be £ 35 billion . please can the Minister enlighten the House and help hon . member to understand his own calculation ? what be the meaning of " social time discount " ? the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be not about Chagossians , but I realise I could not take his intervention early . he ask about the meaning of the social time preference rate in relation to the deal . discount in appraisal of social value be base on the concept of time preference , and that the value of good or service today be great than in the future . this be the discount rate that have be use in the Green Book since 2003 , include in every year that his party be in Government . it be the basis on which this be there . rise — to return to the issue of Chagossians , on which I be try to make progress , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth and fcdo official have meet with the chagossian community . under the treaty , Mauritius will now be free to carry out a programme of resettlement of the outer island , and we have agree a new trust fund for Mauritius to use in support of Chagossians and the resumption of visit to the Chagos archipelago . over the come month and year , we will increase the UK Government ' s support to and engagement with UK Chagossians , include through UK - fund project design through a new contact group , inform by the Chagossians ' own wish , which meet for the very first time last week and be attend by my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth . the Minister will be aware that the payment from the 1960 , refer to by the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , be also suppose to be spend on chagossian welfare , but many chagossian group have raise the fact that that money do not go on chagossian welfare . it go on many other thing for the Mauritian Government , but not on Chagossians . what confidence do he have that this agreement be any more valid than the last one ? that be precisely why my fcdo colleague be work very closely with Mauritius to ensure that the money that be include in the treaty , and the obligation that both the UK and Mauritius sign up to in the treaty , be fully deliver so that the Chagossians receive what this treaty say they should receive . that be a really important part of the treaty . have the meeting undertake by the Minister of State , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , include all the chagossian group , include the Chagos Refugees Group , base in Mauritius ? the Minister of State have meet a full range of group , include the group mention by the right hon . Gentleman . on that point , will the Minister give way ? for the last time , and then I need to conclude my remark . the Minister be be extremely generous with his time . he be press early , but I would like to press he again on the social time discount method . he should be able to give example of big project to which his Government have apply this method . could he now do that and say why , for example , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) do not use that method when she be calculate the cost of the 10 - year affordable housing programme ? I understand the argument that the right hon . Gentleman be try to make , but I hope that he appreciate my argument that the calculation be base on the OBR ' s inflation and deflation figure and on the social time preference rate . it be a figure that have be calculate and support by the OBR , and it stand up to scrutiny . if Conservative member be say that they no long wish to use the Green Book for calculate long - term investment like this , which be their infer argument , then it be worth look at what they be suggest that we no long use the Green Book to calculate — they be make an awfully large spending commitment when they suggest that . rise — I be go to finish my remark on Chagossians , if I may . I hope that all member of the House will recognise that the treaty be not just about the importance of the military base on Diego Garcia . Diego Garcia and the wide Chagos archipelago have a unique environment . I hope that protect the world ' s ocean be a point of cross - party unity in this debate , advance across our overseas territory by the blue belt programme . the UK support Mauritius ' s ambition to establish a marine protect area to safeguard the globally significant ecosystem in the Chagos archipelago , and the UK will provide technical support and assistance to enable that to happen . the UK and Mauritius will work with international conservation organisation to ensure implementation of science - back strategy for conservation . I want to conclude , but I realise that I have not be able to allow all the hon . member to intervene who want to do so , so I give way to the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . the Minister seem to be argue about exactly how much it will cost . my constituent just see that he be give away british territory and pay rent for it , which be completely unacceptable to they . he talk about how it be good for the global south , because they agree with it ; good for other country , because they agree with it ; and good for Mauritius , because it be get extra money . what about the british people that he , as a british Minister , be here to represent ? what be they get for this deal ? they be lose territory and it be cost they money . we be secure one of the most valuable military basis on the planet . we be secure our close intelligence relationship with the United States . we be secure a vital base for operation in the region . we be secure a vital base for ally . that be the key british objective . it be the objective state by the previous Government , which I believe the hon . Lady be serve in at the time , when they start negotiation . if she would like to say that she vividly oppose it and want to publish the letter she be write to the then Government for start negotiation , she be welcome to do so , but I do not believe that any conservative Members really do that . let I say one final thing on cost . the average payment cost be 20 % less than the cost of the festival of Brexit under the previous Government . we can cite statistic , but the key thing the previous Government say that their deal would secure be the future operation of the base . this deal secure the future operation of the base . it be a surprise that Conservative Members be not go to accept it . I will now conclude , because I want everyone to have a chance to speak in this debate . let I do so by explain what the Bill will do in practice . the Bill , along with the secondary legislation that will follow , will allow the treaty to be ratify and to enter into force . the Bill preserve the current law of the British Indian Ocean Territory , which will ensure the base ' s continued effective operation without any disruption during the transition . the Bill also ensure that there be no change to the right of Chagossians to acquire british citizenship , and no change to the status of Chagossians who currently hold british citizenship or british overseas territory citizenship . protect national security be one of the utmost priority of this Government , and we be deliver on that with this deal and the Bill . the Bill be crucial to secure the critically important military base on Diego Garcia for the next century and beyond , and that be why I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill because it implacably oppose the United Kingdom cede sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory to Mauritius , and be therefore opposed to the term of the Treaty to which the Bill give effect , in particular Article 11 of the treaty which will mean the United Kingdom pay £ 34 . 7 billion to Mauritius , lead to tax rise in the United Kingdom to provide tax cut in Mauritius ; because the Treaty do not secure the base on Diego Garcia , in particular because it do not embody the " right to extend " the 99 - year lease to which the then Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs refer in this House on 7 October 2024 ; because the measure in the Treaty leave the base vulnerable , and therefore represent a threat to the strategic interest of the United Kingdom ; and because the Treaty do not properly protect the right of the chagossian people , or the future of the Marine Protected Area . " we on the Opposition side of the House stand against Labour ' s £ 35 billion Chagos surrender deal . everything about this surrender deal be wrong , from the way it be negotiate behind close door within week of Labour come to power , to the betrayal — [ interruption . ] I will happily give way . the right hon . Lady say " behind closed door " . will she please publish the previous Government ' s negotiating position , include the cost of the deal they be look to do ? let I be clear : I be not a member of the previous Government , but the hon . Member know perfectly well that no one on the Conservative Benches have any authority to publish classified paper from previous government . [ interruption . ] he might laugh about that , but those on the Labour Benches might want to apologise to Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton , who actually stop the deal . he have be grossly misrepresent this afternoon in this debate . rise — rise — I will return to that point in a minute . on top of what else be wrong with this surrender deal , it be a fundamental betrayal of the British Chagossian community , whose right have be ignore and neglect . I pay tribute to they . they have join we today in the Gallery . if I remember rightly , this be the fifth or sixth time they have join we to show how strongly they feel about the deal . the deal undermine the defence and security interest of this country , and it bring a risk of the destruction of the unique marine environment and a failure to protect the future of the marine protect area . from refuse to grant this House a meaningful debate and vote on the treaty when it come , to the scene in the Mauritius National Assembly — I hope Labour MPs watch the debate in the Assembly , where the Prime Minister be gloat about how easy it be to secure concession after concession from the Labour Government — and the deceit , misinformation and gaslighting of the british people through to the £ 35 billion cost to hard - work british taxpayer , which will be use to fund tax cut in Mauritius . I be most grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for give way . the Minister describe the deal as an investment . do the right hon . Lady agree that it would be helpful to educate he that a freehold be an investment and a lease be a liability ? exactly right . on top of that , there be the whole issue of the liability , cost and everything else that go with it . the hon . Gentleman make a fundamental , important point . we talk about the cost . the TaxPayers ' Alliance have concern about the amount we be calculate , because they will be dependent on inflation . the calculation do not take into account market value , so the £ 35 billion state by the Government Actuary ' s Department will actually be more like £ 47 billion . absolutely right . of course , this Government do not like speak about inflation for all the macro - economic reason we know about . inflation under this Government continue to rise , which speak volume about their handling of the economy . this deal be so bad for Britain , it have leave our country humiliate and weak on the world stage . our friend and enemy alike be laugh at the UK and Labour ' s epic diplomatic failure to stand up for our national interest . the right hon . Lady say that this be an international problem for the UK , but do she not agree that the Americans , the Canadians , the New Zealanders , the Australians , the Indians and even the Pope support the deal ? it be really important that our five Eyes security partner be behind we . have lead five eye for our country — I be very proud to have do so — it be a matter of great concern that the deal have be back by Iran , China and Russia . I say to the hon . Gentleman that that be exactly why this be a bad deal for our country . [ interruption . ] it be correct , actually , and I can point he to the reference where those country have speak in favour of the deal . I thank the right hon . Lady for give way . I be go to give she another opportunity to confirm that she agree with our five Eyes ally that this be a good deal . those be the people who back this deal . I meet our five Eyes partner at the weekend and I can tell the hon . Gentleman that they be not pay for this deal and they be not gloat about it . they see it very much as a failure of this Government . he can go and justify that to his constituent . I congratulate the Minister on his new post and his promotion , and I welcome he to this wide discussion . he have try his good to sell the surrender deal to the House , but the choice make by his Prime Minister , the former Foreign Secretary who be no long in post , the Attorney General and Labour Ministers will leave Britain weak and poor , humiliate into give away the sovereignty of our british territory and pay a fortune , £ 35 billion , to lease back a base — the point have be make a number of time — that we already own . while Labour have spend month try to hide the detail of its Chagos surrender deal and the scale of the financial cover up , it have be the Conservatives hold Labour to account constantly , expose its shameful decision . I come back to the right hon . Lady ' s point about security . I must have misread our colleague in the US Department of Defence when they tell Defence Committee member , some of whom be sit behind she and hear the same word , that they do not understand her consternation about the deal — but let we assume that she have not put that in an incorrect way . if there be not a problem , will she please explain why her party start the negotiation ? for the benefit of the House and everyone , to provide absolute clarity again , it be the Conservative Foreign Secretary who end all discussion on this matter . I say it again : in all respect to Lord Cameron — [ interruption . ] rise — no , sit down . in all respect to Lord Cameron , I think the Labour party should apologise for the gross misrepresentation that have take place . speak of Foreign Secretaries , it be a real shame that the new Foreign Secretary be not here today to speak on the Bill . she could have come in , review the detail and get out the slide rule , which would be quite a good tool in this case . [ interruption . ] I have just hear that the treaty have be sign , without it even come to this House for debate and a vote . the Foreign Secretary could have come to the House to review the deal — she could even have scrap it and save the british taxpayer billion of pound . however , like her predecessor , she have leave it to junior Ministers to defend the deal . rise — I will give way once again to the hon . member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) . could the right hon . Lady outline what be in the deal that the last conservative Foreign Secretary be negotiate ? the point of sovereignty and everything else be concede by her party . I will now give way to the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) . could the right hon . Lady tell I why the US and the five Eyes have back this deal ? they have not go on the record to say that they have . I have already make it quite clear why it be not in our interest . it tell we something about Labour ' s priority that within day of come into office , the Prime Minister meet the then Prime Minister of Mauritius to commit to the surrender deal . encourage by the Prime Minister ' s obsession with left - wing activism and distorted view of international law , and advise by one of the Prime Minister ' s good friend and supporter — one could even say his cheerleader — Mauritius know it be on to a winner negotiate with this naive , foolish and Britain - hate Labour Government . true to form , instead of stand up for Britain ' s interest , Labour rush to accept the advisory opinion of a foreign court that few have hear of , and swiftly agree to Britain ' s surrender of sovereignty . be my right hon . friend aware of any of our ally who think that the insecure and expensive leasehold deal that we have now be well than the freehold sovereignty and security that we have before ? my hon . friend make a good point . I have not hear our five Eyes ally speak about it be a good way of effectively secure any national interest whatsoever — the concept of leasehold be completely wrong . the Government be clearly not go to take any lesson from we , but I wonder whether they would listen to one of their own . Lord West of Spithead be a Security Minister under the previous Labour Administration and then First Sea Lord and Chief of the Naval Staff , so he know a thing or two . he have say very clearly that in his expert opinion , this deal be " irresponsible " and that it will damage our strategic interest . who be we to believe : the Labour party or my old boss , Lord West ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . there be something fundamental here about the negotiation — I think the Minister allude to this early on . the Government be effectively just listen to leftie lawyer and advisory judgment and act because they be frightened that their left - wing lawyer friend would pursue even more lawfare against we . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) tell the Foreign Affairs Committee : " our view be that , without this deal , it be inevitable that Mauritius would pursue and secure a legally bind judgment against the UK . indeed , legally bind provisional measure could also have be secure within week " . the Government have never — not once — detail what the legal threat be beyond hide behind spurious aspect of international law . I have to say that it be a defeatist attitude that Labour have take . Britain be Europe ' s lead defence power , a pillar of NATO in Europe and a p5 member of the UN Security Council with a right of veto . we be not bind by advisory judgment pursue by Mauritius at the ICJ — which , by the way , include a judge who be a member of the Chinese Communist party . by be vocal in concede defeat and unwilling to defend Britain from a barrage of lawfare , Labour have let Britain ' s stand on the world stage plummet , and its decision will have serious consequence for we . let we talk about the money . we all know that this Labour Government be big spender when it come to splash about taxpayer ' money , and the cost of Labour ' s surrender treaty be astronomical at £ 34 . 7 billion — a figure which , by the way , we have to drag out of the Government Actuary ' s Department because Labour Ministers repeatedly refuse to disclose the cash payment when ask . in fact , because the payment be link to inflation , as my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) have point out , guess what ? the cash cost could be even high . that mean high taxis for our constituent , which be nothing for those on the Labour Benches to crow about . the right hon . Lady come to this Chamber claim that this deal have astronomical cost and all that , but what she will not put on the record be the cost of the deal that the Conservatives be negotiate . she can say all she want about that be a matter for the public record , but she need to be clear with the british public . I will be absolutely crystal clear for the benefit of this House and for Hansard , too : there be no deal whatsoever . the Government can put out as much fake news as they wish and carry on pretend and crow that there be a deal , but there be no deal . it be the last conservative Foreign Secretary who stop any negotiation and discussion , and they be stop — Lord Cameron himself have say that . on that basis alone , I think Labour Members should all apologise to Lord Cameron , and perhaps even correct the record . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . do it not speak volume about the real nature of this Government that despite face a fiscal crisis and potentially a crisis in their finance — they want more money spend on health and benefit , because that be what they do — their priority be listen to leftie lawyer pontificate about decolonisation and commit billion of pound of long - term liability to give away and lease back something that we already own ? do that not say something about the extraordinarily myopic preoccupation of this Government ? of course , we tell the Foreign Office to get lose . my hon . friend be absolutely right . it speak volume about the priority that this Labour Government — socialist to the core in how they like to spend public money — be focus on . come November , when the Chancellor have her Budget , there will be no point crow about the past and blame other people , other country and international force and factor . this be a fiscal mess make by this Labour Government with this utterly scandalous , appalling and reckless financial giveaway . the Minister challenge the Opposition and the shadow Chancellor about our position on net present value , but the reason be that the use of NPV be unprecedented . it be use for commercial deal that the Government make and be standardise for that alone , not for international agreement on sovereignty . do my right hon . friend agree that we will not change on net present value , which have its place in commercial deal but not in give away sovereignty ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; it be absolutely shameful . I come back to the fundamental principle that this House will have to consider : at a time when hard - press british taxpayer be struggle , with significant tax rise and the share of the tax burden on the public go up , the Government will have to have a good , hard look at themselves and justify this appalling cost to their own constituent . my right hon . Friend make an excellent point early about the underlie socialism in this agreement . the initial agreement — [ Laughter . ] no , let I just clarify : the initial agreement from May very clearly say it be about apologise for the colonisation of Mauritius and that it be about the regrettable legacy . everything be lay out : it be about apologise for our british history and heritage . it be not about be proud of protect our sovereignty , protect the realm and protect our security . we should not be say that we will apologise and pay out because we feel bad about everything that we have do . that be the difference between the Conservatives and the Labour party , and that be why we be take such objection to this Bill . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I say gently to some Labour Members , who be laugh and sneer at a fellow Member of this House when she be make a very valid point , that they be simply be disrespectful . it say a great deal . the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) can laugh as much as he want . the british public see Labour as a party that do not stand up for Britain and british value , and that be not something to be laugh or sneer at . I be grateful to my right hon . friend . just to settle this whole argument about net present value , the reason it simply can not be use for a long - term treaty obligation be that it be necessary to make a really heavy estimation of what will happen socially and economically in that area . it be just about possible to use some of that in the UK , where the Government control certain aspect , which they will not control after this treaty be sign . that be why it have be recommend that it not be use for long - term effect when not within the UK . that be why the actuarial department advise go for the total amount , not this net present value . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . my right hon . friend be concerned about the cost of the deal , but do she also share my concern about the way in which the deal be negotiate ? the Prime Minister of Mauritius have say that only the Prime Ministers of our respective country be in the room ; official be ask to leave the room , so there be no record of what be discuss . be that how a responsible , democratic Government should show transparency when negotiate on the international stage ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; at the heart of this be transparency about negotiation , include fiscal negotiation . the right hon . Lady talk about transparency , but once again we have not hear a word from she about what her Government ' s position would have be , so there have be no transparency at all . they go through 11 round of negotiation . if she do not believe a deal be possible , surely she would have stop after two or three . she know that a deal be vital to UK security interest , but her government could not conclude it . the hon . member , who be laugh and sneer at fellow colleague early — that be simply not acceptable — should have listen to what I say . I will restate it for the House : there be no deal do whatsoever . will the right hon . member give way ? I will not . as we have already hear from Conservative Members , we have rarely see the methodology that the Government be now hide behind use for any spending announcement . when the Minister wind up , I wonder if he will commit to present all future spending decision use this methodology — or perhaps he could explain why the Government have single out this large and embarrassing expenditure to be formulate in this way . that be down to the fact that they be cover up a colossal cost . the point have be make over and over in this discussion that we be give away something that we do not have to give away , and be rent it back — and the british taxpayer be pay for it . last week , I ask the Leader of the House how much this be go to cost . she say , " alongside legislation we publish all the necessary document , include the costing , which we have be transparent about . " — [ Official Report , 4 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 453 . ] I regard the Minister as a friend , but to say the least , his figure have be opaque . let I ask one simple question that my right hon . friend might know the answer to : how much be the United States contribute to this deal ? I thank my right hon . friend for his contribution , and for pursue this line of question in the Chamber with other Ministers . he be absolutely correct . we know that the United States of America be not contribute to the cost of the deal . the cost be solely on the british taxpayer . [ interruption . ] operational cost of the base be different ; that be not in this treaty or this Bill . the Bill represent a series of measure , not the treaty in its entirety . the Government block this House from vote on the treaty during the 21 - day process provide for in the Constitutional Reform and Government Act 2010 . last week , when ask at oral question why we be not get a vote on the cost , the then Foreign Secretary — now Deputy Prime Minister — proclaim that there would be a vote , but the Government have not see fit to put forward a motion . as the explanatory note to the Bill confirm , the Bill will not authorise expenditure . that be not acceptable . we will table amendment to the Bill to hold the Deputy Prime Minister to his word and ensure that this House have a rightful say over the payment to Mauritius . let we be clear : unless there be a direct vote on the cost , Labour will have cheat Parliament and Britain out of have a say on the financial implication of the £ 35 billion that british taxpayer be be force to pay a foreign government . that expenditure mean high taxis for british taxpayer and less spending for british people across all constituency around the country . shamefully , this be all to fund tax cut , debt reduction and new investment in not our country , but Mauritius . I will gladly give way to any Minister or Government Back Bencher who want to explain why it be acceptable to deny Parliament a vote on this £ 35 billion of expenditure , and why the money should be give to a foreign government , not invest in this country . if they need to check that with Rachel from account or Lord Hermer , I be sure they can do so before the end of the debate . labour give away british taxpayer ' money to a foreign Government to rent land that we already own be reckless and irresponsible . my right hon . friend be make a great speech . she say that this be a reckless giving away of british money . unlike many of the other thing we have have to watch Labour do , such as take the winter fuel allowance away from old people and heavily tax charity , hospice and other , this can not be undo . once the money be give away to a foreign country , there be nothing that any future Government can do to claim it back easily . my hon . friend be right . at the end of the day , the real judge of this will be the british people . will the right hon . member give way ? no , I be answer my hon . friend . the real judge will be the british people . how will they view a Labour Government give away £ 35 billion to a foreign government ? that money could be spend in this country . it be simply not acceptable at all . will the right hon . member give way ? I be go to make progress , and I have take plenty of intervention . the Minister touch on the base at Diego Garcia , which be one of the most important military asset in the world . it give we and our US ally significant global reach , but the treaty undermine that position , and the Bill contain no measure to mitigate its effect . will the right hon . member give way ? I will not ; I have give way plenty of time to the hon . Gentleman . the surrender of sovereignty mean that Britian will be a rule taker , take the law , rule and command of Mauritius , and that restrict and impede base operation . for example , Mauritius have sign up to the Pelindaba treaty , ban the stationing and storage of nuclear weapon ; no Minister have be able to provide a definitive answer when question about how that may impact our security and defence , once the UK be no long sovereign in , or able to exercise sovereign right over , the Chagos island and Diego Garcia . under the term of the treaty , we be bind to notify Mauritius of various activity relate to our use of the base , include operation from the base against that country , and movement of our ally ’ vessel . despite heavy questioning , at no point have Ministers explain in detail how the notification will work , and who will have access to the information . the shadow Foreign Secretary be come to the nub of the matter . this be about the future security of the world , include the United Kingdom . we be arrive at a situation where the sovereign power be a signatory to an empty nuclear treaty that prohibit the stationing of nuclear weapon anywhere within the ambit of the country that be signatory to that treaty . how could we even use this base for our nuclear submarine ? the hon . and learn Member be absolutely right . that be why it be important to have a debate on the Floor of the House when the treaty come together , but we do not have one . the treaty bring into question everything about security , include our ability to be as strong and secure as we need to be . it will come as no surprise to member to hear that now that our sovereignty over the base be be surrender , our enemy be queue up to — guess what ? — make friend with Mauritius . just day before the surrender treaty be sign , Russia agree a new partnership agreement with Mauritius that include marine research . that so - call " marine research " conduct by Russia could take place just a handful of mile away from our base . Mauritius have also be court extensively by Iran and China for further partnership in a range of other area . despite the warning , this inept Labour Government have fail to act to safeguard our interest . will the right hon . member give way ? no , I have give way to the hon . gentleman many time . rise — I will give way one more time to my hon . friend . on the previous question of how much operational independence we will really have , can my right hon . friend comment on point 4 of annex 1 of the agreement , entitle " Mauritian Security Review " , which require we to consult Mauritius before any " construction or emplacement of any maritime installation " or " any proposal for development in the land territory of the Chagos archipelago " ? it also state that Mauritius shall conduct a security review , and that our permission to carry out work be dependent on the outcome of the Mauritius security review . we do not have operational independence under this treaty . it then go through the dispute process , and there be no decisive way of decide anything unless there be agreement between the two Prime Ministers . it be a completely inadequate agreement . my hon . friend have sum it up : the whole process be completely inadequate , with no transparency and no dispute resolution mechanism . this be just too messy , give that we be talk about the defence and security of the country . again , this be exactly why we should have be able to debate the treaty on the Floor of the House and give it the scrutiny that be require . let we hope that the Prime Minister and his lefty lawyer be not involve in the dispute resolution mechanism , because Britain will come out worst . as we know , when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . at the press conference announce the signing of the treaty , it be interesting to hear the Prime Minister almost gaslighte critic of the treaty by compare they — that is , we — to China , Russia and Iran as he arrogantly declare his view and position . on 4 and 11 June in the House , he say that the treaty " have be oppose by our adversary , Russia , China and Iran " . we know that 6 , 000 mile away , at the celebration party press conference in Mauritius , China be single out by the Mauritian Government for praise . accord to the press release , Deputy Prime Minister Paul B é renger note that China ' s " unwavere support play a critical role in the international recognition of mauritian sovereignty . " a few day later , the chinese ambassador issue Mauritius with " massive congratulation " on secure the surrender of the Chagos island . this summer , the Mauritian Government publish a press release say that the President express " gratitude " for China ' s " unwavering support " for Mauritius ' s sovereignty claim over the Chagos archipelago . Iran have also be supportive of the Mauritian claim for the Chagos island , with its ambassador say early this year : " the Islamic Republic of Iran have always support Mauritius ' s position regard the Chagos issue . so , Chagos belong to the mauritian people . we support its return and have make many effort in the past toward that goal . " as for Russia , when meet Putin , the former Mauritian President Vyapoory state : " we appreciate the support of Russia in our claim for our sovereignty on Chagos . " minister have be ask in parliamentary question for the evidential basis of the Prime Minister ' s claim about the apparent opposition of those three country who threaten our interest , but they have not come forward with it . when the Minister respond , will he finally explain the ground behind the Prime Minister ' s malicious , almost spurious , remark , or apologise for those claim ? all the evidence show that , far from oppose the surrender treaty , our enemy actually back it , which mean that Britain be weak . will the right hon . member give way ? I will not . I know that the hon . Gentleman will speak later . I turn to the british Chagossians . as well as undermine our security and defence interest and rip off british taxpayer , Labour have betray the british Chagossians . member on both side of the House have recognise and acknowledge that the chagossian community have face injustice and hardship . their removal from the Chagos island be a source of great and profound regret . I pay tribute to the chagossian community in Britain for their campaigning , and to Henry Smith , our former colleague as Member of Parliament for Crawley , who keep pursue and raise the issue , and who fight in the House for their right . as a result , we give the community new right in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which Labour vote against . I hope that the Minister can give assurance that those right will not be undermine by the citizenship measure in clause 4 of the Bill . because of that past , it be so important that any decision make about the future of the Chagos island be make with the community in mind , and that their need be fully respect . ten year ago , when the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , be the Opposition ' s spokesman , he say : " the people of Chagos must be at the heart of decision about their future … the UK Government have a fundamental moral responsibility towards the islander that will not go away . " — [ Official Report , 28 October 2015 ; Vol . 601 , c . 192WH . ] but this treaty fail they . I have meet the community many time and hear their concern and frustration ; I think everyone in the House will acknowledge their frustration . they feel that they have be ignore throughout the process , and that the treaty have no guarantee for they . there be a £ 40 million chagossian trust fund that UK taxpayer will capitalise , but the UK and the british Chagossians will have no control or say over how it will be use or control by the Government of Mauritius . I highlight that point because the Chagossians feel strongly — they fundamentally know — that they can not trust the Government of Mauritius . the Bill and the treaty make no provision for the british Chagossians to benefit from the trust fund , or be involve in its governance ; nor be they guarantee any right to visit the Chagos island . those decision will be control by Mauritius once sovereignty be surrender . hon . member across the House who have speak up for british Chagossians know of their fear . it be right that I amplify those fear , or at least raise they in the House , because their voice have not be hear . now be the time for they to be count , for their voice to be hear , and , importantly , for their right to be defend . another damn indictment of the Bill and the treaty be the way in which they fail to safeguard the 640 , 000 sq km marine protect area . its unique biodiversity enable important marine research to be conduct . in just the last few week , a study that include researcher from Exeter and Heriot - Watt university and the Zoological Society of London be publish . it note : " our result provide clear evidence for the value of the Chagos Archipelago VLMPA for protect a diverse range of large and mobile marine specie . " yet all we have hear thus far from the Government be warm word about intention to continue with an MPA . no detail have be publish . on the conservation point , be it not that the case have already be test in UNCLOS between 2010 and 2015 , when it be say that we could not go ahead with a marine protection area for this british territory because we have not consult properly with Mauritius ? at that point , it be also determined that UNCLOS could not rule on sovereignty as that be not its basis . so we find out not only about the sovereignty side , but that we can not protect the island on the environmental part . what guarantee do my right hon . friend see in the treaty that we will have ecological protection in the area , give those finding ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct about UNCLOS and in highlight the insecurity and serious challenge . it may be forthcoming , but at this stage we do not know what level of protection will be provide or will continue . we do not know what level of resource Mauritius will put into the MPA or what the UK will contribute . my right hon . friend be make a powerful case . the answer be none , because Mauritius have no navy and practically no coastguard . with which mean will Mauritius defend a territory that be hundred of kilometre away ? it can not possibly do so . my right hon . friend have sum it up , and it be not just that Mauritius be unable to do so ; it clearly will not be interested in this whole area . it be important for the House to reflect on that point . after decade of investment in and support for the MPA , there be now a major issue of jeopardy . we do not know at this stage what the governance arrangement will be . in fact , in response to question about that from my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) at the Environmental Audit Committee in April , the Minister , Baroness Chapman , say : " it will belong to the Government of Mauritius , and they will make decision about how they protect the sea around the Chagos archipelago … you want more detail than we have … we and the Government of Mauritius want to see the marine protect area continue , but I do not know what the precise nature of it will be . " what we do know be that the Fisheries Minister of Mauritius , Dr Boolell , be eye up the marine protect area to exploit it . he boast to his National Assembly on 7 February that he want to issue fishing and trawl licence . he declare that " what stop I tomorrow to say that I be go to give fishing licence for any fishing trawl company or any fishing vessel to go to any part of Chagos " . this issue have be raise extensively in the Foreign Affairs Committee , with no Minister be able to give any assurance . if the Bill pass and the treaty be implement , the unique marine environment will be put at risk . I will briefly touch on two area . another part of the Chagos surrender Bill that should concern the House be its Henry VIII clause . clause 5 grant the Government a free hand , with little or no parliamentary scrutiny , decision or authority , to " make any provision that appear to his Majesty to be appropriate as a result of the Treaty " . that could mean the Government make further concession to the Government of Mauritius . with the treaty make provision for a joint commission with the UK and Mauritius , that could take place without anyone in this House have any sight or knowledge of it . we need a clear commitment from the Minister in his wind - up speech what those measure will be or will he rule out on the Floor of the House that any further concession will be make to the Government of Mauritius ? in conclusion , this Bill , its six shameful clause and the treaty it partly implement be a damn indictment of the failure of this Labour Government . it surrender sovereignty of a land we own to a foreign government , increasingly ally and grow close to country that be not our ally and which pose the big threat to our national security and defence . it bind the hand of british taxpayer into pay £ 35 billion — a surrender tax . it put the interest and demand of a foreign country and left - wing lawyer above our national interest . it leave our country poorer , weak and less able to defend our interest from foreign threat and it undermine our standing in the world . labour ' s Chagos surrender deal be an epic failure of diplomacy and an expensive humiliation for Britain . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . his Majesty ' s loyal opposition will continue to stand up for Britain ' s national interest and our defence and security . we will fight for our sovereignty , we will defend british taxpayer by oppose Labour ' s surrender tax and , we will make the case for the british Chagossians to have their right safeguard and the marine protect area preserve . we will oppose this Bill and fight this treaty every step of the way . I rise to speak on the Bill and propose agreement , with particular focus on its defence implication . give substantial other ongoing work and the fact that other Committees have look into it , this be not an issue that our Defence Committee have investigate thus far . let we not be under any illusion , however : this be a matter of strategic importance , financial prudence and moral responsibility . the British Indian Ocean Territory and in particular the Diego Garcia military base have long serve as a cornerstone of our defence and security capability , not just for the UK but for our ally in the US and across the five Eyes community . that be why have their state support for this deal , in addition to that of India and other , be so vital . the base ' s role in disrupt threat to the UK , support counter - terror operation against ISIS and protect we against hostile state must continue . include the management of the electromagnetic spectrum satellite use for communication and the prevention of other power operate on the outer island without permission be vital for counter hostile interference . it be not just a diplomatic formality ; it be a strategic firewall against encroachment by hostile state . maintain US and UK autonomy on the base can not be overstate . I note the Government position be that Mauritius will be expeditiously inform of activity . however , I look for reassurance that we do not need to provide Mauritius with advance warn about our operation . I would therefore welcome clarification on that point from the Minister to guarantee that all current and future operation can continue unimpeded . give the importance of the Chagos island to our defence , have the hon . Gentleman ' s Committee think about even do a review into the Chagos island and what this would look like ? that way , such question could be address directly in a decent period of time — we only have four or five hour tonight — and he could spend several week look into the matter . be that something he and his Committee would consider ? as I mention in my introductory remark , give that various other Committees have be look into this and that it have be extensively debate on the Floor of the House , and consider the other work that the Committee be undertake , include an inquiry launch this week into the afghan data breach , that be why we have not look into this matter . however , I will give way to the Minister , who I hope will give I some sort of reassurance . to reassure my hon . friend , as I do the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) early , we be not require to give pre - notification of any military activity to Mauritius . that be important , because some people be erroneously suggest that we be . that be not correct ; we do not have to give pre - notification . I thank the Minister for intervene and for that clarification . when I read the word " expeditiously inform " , I be leave in a somewhat uncertain state as to what that actually mean . there must be no fettering of our ability to operate from the base . we have hear today that this deal — this suppose investment that be actually a liability — be essential to the defence of our realm . yet the Defence Committee have not study that investment or liability . I think the british people have a right to know why not . I have already state , on two occasion , the various reason why our Committee have not look into this particular aspect . the matter have be give extensive airing in various other context , and we have be give assurance that there will be no fettering of our ability to operate from the base in the defence and security of the UK and its ally . I also point out to the hon . member that during the Defence Committee ' s recent visit to our most trust and close ally , the US , during various discussion and on numerous occasion when we raise the matter with very senior individual in the US , whether on Capitol hill , in the State Department or at the Pentagon , they be supportive of the deal . I be sure that other Committee Members , when they discuss this , can attest to that . we have be give an assurance from the Front Bench that no advance notice will need to be give about operational arrangement from the base . however , my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) early indicate that there have to be Mauritian Government approval for the construction of facility . how can we have the operational facility without the construction of the facility that back they up ? the right hon . Member make a strong point . indeed , I hope that in the Minister ' s wind - up speech , just as we have have clarification that we do not need to give advance warn about the operation of the US and our force , he can give clarification about construction as well . on the matter of cost , which be a concern rightly raise by hon . member across the House , it be important to be transparent and precise . from my previous briefing with Ministers — I be grateful to both the Defence Minister and the Foreign Office Minister on the Front Bench for their time — I understand that that will be an average of £ 101 million annually over 99 year , with the United States cover all defence operation . I should clarify that what I quote from article 4 of the treaty do not apply directly to Diego Garcia ; it only apply to an area beyond Diego Garcia and for the development of land territory that be on the archipelago but beyond Diego Garcia . I should have make that clear . I inadvertently mislead the House , and I apologise for do so . I thank the hon . gentleman for that clarification and for set the record straight . I do not want to say anything on the Floor of the House that could inadvertently have mislead the House , but my understanding be that all our operation regard the Diego Garcia military base would be unfettered , so I be glad that he have give that clarification . no doubt I would have have to do more bedtime read to catch up on exactly what be in the treaty . while this arrangement will ensure that our strategic interest be protect , we must ensure that the cost do not spiral and that proper oversight be give to all the financial implication . security and cost be not the only factor that we must weigh in evaluate this deal , however . we must also address the right of the chagossian people , include those who be in the Gallery today . I have raise these issue on the Floor of the House with the then Foreign Secretary , and I again urge the Government to ensure that all part of this deal be carry out in line with international law and with full respect for the dignity and right of the chagossian community . I would welcome any comment from the Minister on ensure that chagossian voice will be hear . one of the issue raise by the Chagossians , which the shadow Foreign Secretary also mention , be the protection of the Chagos archipelago , which be home to one of the most ecologically rich marine environment on the planet . I welcome the creation of a protection zone . this represent a significant step forward in our share commitment to environmental conservation and biodiversity protection . it also provide a framework for scientific co - operation , marine research and community engagement , particularly with the chagossian diaspora , whose cultural and historical tie to the island must be respect . I welcome the guarantee and stability that this agreement bring , but it be imperative that long - term stability be achieve and secure into the future . in an increasingly complex global landscape , we must act as a responsible global leader , ensure that our national security and strategic interest be never compromise . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for his statement and congratulate he on his new appointment . on 3 November 2022 , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , as Conservative Foreign Secretary , state that " the UK and Mauritius have decide to begin negotiation on the exercise of sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory ( BIOT ) / Chagos archipelago . " — [ Official Report , 3 November 2022 ; Vol . 721 , c . 27ws . ] on 7 November 2024 , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , as Labour Foreign Secretary , make a statement to confirm that the UK and Mauritius have conclude those negotiation . on that same day , I meet the group of UK - base Chagossians who come to Parliament to protest against the deal , which have be reach without their involvement . Maxwell Evenor say to I in desperation that his people have no state and no power . he say : " all we have be our voice but that have be silence for so long . " the view of the many Chagossians live here in the UK have not change since . the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) pepper her speech with breathless hyperbole , but let I speak plainly . there have be consistency between the approach of the last Government and this government — [ interruption . ] conservative member do not want to accept that fact , but it be true . both government accept that legal challenge , not only in the International Court of Justice , be a threat to the UK ' s vital security interest . both government pursue negotiation over the sovereignty of the Chagos archipelago , with the goal of secure legally our use of Diego Garcia , and both government fail to protect the interest of Chagossians in their negotiation with Mauritius . the reason amendment table in my name and those of Liberal Democrat Members today seek to address those fact . from the very start , the process of secure the treaty to be give effect by this Bill have be characterise by this glare omission . there have be an abject failure by successive government properly to consult the chagossian people or to ensure that their right be protect in the final settlement . we recognise and support the importance of abide by international law and believe that it be in the UK ' s interest to negotiate with Mauritius , give the risk — which the Conservatives and Reform now appear recklessly to be ignore — that a judgment against the UK in any court would present a threat to our security interest in Diego Garcia , but the treaty that have be agree trample over the Chagossians . not only do it fail to provide adequate protection of their right ; it also fail entirely to establish a right to return or a programme of resettlement of the island for the Chagossians . for much of their history , the Chagossians have be deny consultation on who govern they and their right to self - determination . we now fear that this treaty , if enact , will only reinforce that historical legacy . Mauritius — which , let we remember , lie over 1 , 300 mile from the archipelago — will become the new colonial master of the islander . I also have grave concern about the degree to which this deal will genuinely support the UK ' s security over the long term . there be a concern lack of detail regard the extension of the Diego Garcia military base lease beyond its initial 99 - year term . nor do the treaty appear to reckon seriously with generating guarantee or protection against encroachment by revisionist power such as China , which could threaten and undermine UK interest in the region . the unique maritime environment around the Chagos archipelago be one of the most ecologically valuable region on earth . it be home to an extraordinary range of wildlife and act as a sanctuary for many threatened specie . I fear that the treaty do not afford adequate protection to this precious environment . protect and restore it be not only vital for global marine conservation ; it also offer unique opportunity to deepen our understanding of natural ecosystem . resettlement of the Chagossians could have provide a model for community - lead conservation on the island . instead , short - sighted opposition to chagossian proposal and the controversial marine protect area designation squander that opportunity . finally , there be the cost of this deal . the Government shroud this in secrecy when they first announce it , and then appear to reopen it to appease the new Mauritian Prime Minister . UK taxpayer be right to ask how minister justify the sum involve at a time when public finance be so stretch in the UK . the treaty in this Bill fail to put in place the necessary oversight and accountability mechanism over the very large sum involve and the annual payment to Mauritius and the chagossian trust fund . the Government elect not to provide time for a debate and vote in this Chamber on the treaty , and I regret that member be not give that opportunity . we be also await the statement on the right of Chagossians , which the noble Lord Collins promise would be discuss in both Houses before ratification . I hope the Minister will clarify when this will be schedule . in the meantime , for all the reason that I have set out and be set out in the reason amendment in my name and in the name of the liberal Democrat colleague who have sign it , I believe that this Bill to give effect to the treaty should not receive second Reading . I congratulate the Minister on his appointment , and thank Ministers for the time they have give I to raise with they matter in relation to this Bill and for the response they have provide to my question . I can see no logical reason why the Government would go through the painful process of bring this Bill to the Floor of the House today if they be not 100 % convince that it be in the UK ' s national security interest . however , I be afraid that I must vote against the Government today because I do not believe that their concern , no matter how important they might be , give we the right to override the chagossian people ' s right to self - determination . we can not vote to give away these island , because they be not our island to give away in the first place . I know that many member have take an interest in the plight of the chagossian people over the year , and that in the last year , hopefully , many more have learn more about their history and their circumstance , so I will recount the key point briefly . the first record contact with the island be from those in the Maldives , but its modern history begin with France , which bind the island together in a colonial administration with Mauritius . this be the only basis on which the modern state of Mauritius make any claim on the island . in the late 18th century , the UK claim the colony from the French and plant coconut plantation on the island . we use slave labour to do that , and it be among those slave that the unique island culture begin to develop . in 1965 , the UK divide that colonial entity , grant the modern state of Mauritius independence and at the same time , in return for financial compensation , agree to give up any future claim on the island . however , we have already come to the determination at that point that this would be a convenient location for a military base , jointly run with the United States . I believe that in that initial deal we get a discount on Polaris for provide the site . in order to facilitate the base , the decision be take to forcibly remove the islander from the archipelago — something that begin under a Labour Government but conclude under a Conservative Government . official documentation from the time state that the base be too important to the UK for " Tarzans " and " Man Fridays " to get in the way , and make it clear that the islander must be refer to only as Mauritians or Seychellois , recognise the opposition that they would face — even in the 1960 — if it be know that the displacement of an entire people be take place in the interest of national security . the islander be deposit on Mauritius and the Seychelles — island of a different culture — without a penny to their name , and for decade be abandon by the British Government , leave in poverty and face discrimination on the basis of their ethnicity . for year , they have fight for their right , and they have win some concession in that time , include the right to UK citizenship , with most british Chagossians choose to set up their home in Crawley . that move come with enormous challenge — a point to which I will circle back in due course . I have know and work alongside member of the british Chagossian community for almost two decade . as council leader , I promise they that as a part of Crawley ' s community , it be my job to be their voice to Government , not the other way around . it be that promise that lead I to vote against this deal today . it be true to say that there be chagossian who enthusiastically support the deal , just as there be those who desperately oppose it — that be the same with any community on absolutely any issue — but what be not dispute be that the island belong to the Chagossians , and that it be for that people and that people alone to decide the future of their homeland . we have not give they that chance to decide their future . until every Chagossian have have the chance to have their say , I can not support this deal . the hon . Member be make a powerful point . we hear an impassioned defence not to bring the Falkland Islands or other british overseas territory into this , but Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands have self - determination , vote for by their people . be it his thesis that that will apply for the Chagossians , and therefore they would make the determination whether to be british or , indeed , go to the Mauritians on that basis ? it be incredibly unfortunate that the Chagossians have not be give that opportunity — that be my view . have we give they that opportunity , whatever the outcome , I would have have no problem honour that because we be talk about their land ; it be not our land . the hon . Member be speak very well on behalf of his constituent . he will acknowledge that the argument for Chagossians have a right of nationality and abode in Britain be hard fight by many of the Chagossians , and some of we who be here at the time be pleased to support they in that . yes , there be difference of opinion among Chagossians , include the Chagos refugee association , which , broadly speak , support this treaty , but do he not think that it be time to bring all the community together and recognise that they have achieve an enormous amount in gain the right of return and the right of residence , at least on the archipelago ? there be an enormous challenge , as I be sure the right hon . Member be aware of from his many year work with the group , in the number of disparate voice . Crawley borough council have take it on itself to work with the different community group , help they to come together and form a coherent voice , out of the belief that they will only ever secure what they be all seek by have one coherent , democratic voice for the community . unfortunately , the deal emerge during the course of that process so there have not be that opportunity , and its timing have , to an extent , drive a rift through that community . I be not naive ; I be certain that the Bill will proceed today , so let I turn to the question , " what next ? " although mention of the Chagossians be make in the wording of the deal , I remain concerned , as other member have allude to , that there be gap that leave the chagossian people at risk . while there be the option for Chagossians to be allow by the Mauritian Government to return to the island , there be no requirement in the deal that that happen . there be no guarantee that any Chagossian who do return to the archipelago will not face restriction that prevent permanent habitation , even at a subsistence level of economic activity . there be no guarantee at this time that the trust fund that be be create will be in the control of the Chagossians and use exclusively to address the consequence of their forcible removal from the island . there be no guarantee that return chagossian will not face a 10 - year prison sentence for question mauritian territorial integrity through take on british citizenship . I know that many remain upset that Diego Garcia remain off limit for permanent habitation , with a view that some creativity could be use to enable rehabilitation without affect security , particularly give the prolonged period in which asylum seeker have be present on that island . I say all this because I want to urge Ministers to continue to engage on these matter with the Mauritian Government to give the Chagossians certainty over their place in this deal . close to home , there be many challenge face chagossian who choose to exercise their right to UK citizenship . chief among those problem , as with so many other issue , be housing . as part of our national housing strategy , we need to ensure that every UK citizen have access to good - quality housing , and that include british Chagossians , who , by the legal complication of their citizenship , despite have lose their home in Chagos , receive none of the support offer by relocation scheme to other group . that create enormous pressure on local authority near airport and leave many Chagossians live in dilapidated housing condition , if they can find accommodation at all . with the second bad housing crisis in the country , the reality be that Crawley borough council can not on its own owe the entire country ' s housing duty to the chagossian people ; a national strategy be need . there be challenge around access to language training and support service , which often lead chagossian to be highly reliant on other member of the community . I regret to say that for the enormous amount of goodwill and charity on the part of that community towards other member of it , we have have instance of that trust be abuse in the form of fraud . we need a mechanism for qualification issue in Mauritius to be recognise in the UK , and for child and young people to transition into UK educational system — something that be complicate by the difference in term time . lastly , there be a desperate need for facility for the Chagossians to preserve their unique , intangible cultural heritage , which sit at the heart of an individual ' s identity and which force deportation have to a large extent erase . with so few first - generation Chagossians leave , if we do not act now , this be likely to be the last generation that see its culture on the earth . I know that Foreign Office Ministers be meet with chagossian group and have be work to get funding move again . I be hopeful that these meeting will continue and that progress can be make on these and other challenge . I say to all member in the House today that this House have do enormous harm to the chagossian people , all the way from their enslavement to the present day . I believe that hand these island to Mauritius without their consent risk make some of that harm permanent . nevertheless , it be within the Government ' s power to address many of the consequence of forcible deportation so long ago . regardless of the outcome of today ' s vote , I beg Ministers to let this be the start and not the end of the process of make thing right . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) . I admire his principle and his persistence in his advocacy for his chagossian constituent , and I know that he would recognise that his predecessor do the same . there be no dispute that Diego Garcia be crucial to the UK ' s security and that of its ally ; that be not something we be argue about . I do not think — although I will be correct if I be wrong — that it be the Government ' s position that , in term of the day - to - day practicality of operate the Diego Garcia base , this new arrangement whereby we no long have sovereignty over Diego Garcia but will continue to administer it , at least for 99 year , be well than what we have now . rather , it be a more secure arrangement because of what have be describe as the legal uncertainty surround our sovereignty over it . I see the Minister nodding , and I be grateful for that . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for give way and use his legal background . it be more secure legally for those 99 year but , more definitively , at that 99 - year point , if the Mauritians decide not to have a base there , categorically that be their decision . therefore , by proxy , it be actually more unsafe , just in 100 year ' time . I understand the point that my hon . friend make , and it be reinforce by the point make by our hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) in read from the agreement as to how any dispute be resolve . but I want to focus on the position now and the legal justification that the Government have already deploy for the arrangement that they seek to make . my hon . friend be right that there will be further problem down the road , but there be problem already . it seem to I that if the position the Government take be as I have set it out and as the Minister accept that it be , that must be right because it would surely be difficult to argue that , be it not for that legal uncertainty , rent Diego Garcia back from someone else would be well than own it from a security point of view . so for the Government to persuade we in this House , and indeed the country as a whole , that this be a good deal for Britain , everything turn on the question of legal uncertainty , which Ministers have often refer to as the reason why the treaty , and therefore the Bill , be necessary . have spend four year as Attorney General , I be quite familiar with legal uncertainty — there be a lot of it about in Government . it be , I be afraid , invariably the case that whenever a decision be make in Government , someone disagree with it , and some of those who disagree will be prepared to go to a court and challenge the validity of that decision . until the court — sometimes until the Supreme Court — have resolve the matter , there can fairly be say to be legal uncertainty about it . legal uncertainty hang around Government like the cloud , and it can not be allow to paralyse a Government . nor should that sort of atmospheric legal uncertainty be the only cause of a decision as significant as that which this Government be now make to give up sovereignty over a vital military facility . there must be something more substantive — more tangible — to the legal uncertainty to which Ministers have refer . many of we have try to find out what exactly that is , but with very limited success . give that , as far as I can tell , the legal uncertainty that be be talk about constitute the entirety of the burn platform on which the Government rely to justify the Bill and the treaty , surely this House , before we approve either , must be give a proper and clear explanation of precisely what legal jeopardy the Government be act in response to . in pursuit of that , it be worth have a look at the explanation that minister have give so far . let we start with the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , who of course be now the Deputy Prime Minister . he make a statement on the British Indian Ocean Territory negotiation on 7 October last year . he tell the House that the issue of contested sovereignty over Diego Garcia be become more acute , and that " a bind judgment against the UK seem inevitable " . — [ Official Report , 7 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 45 . ] many of we have be ask where that bind judgment might come from . the only court that have by then be mention be the International Court of Justice , which have issue an advisory opinion on sovereignty over the Chagos Islands and Diego Garcia . indeed , on this subject it could only have be an advisory decision , because the UK accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the ICJ by declaration date 22 February 2017 — I be Attorney General at the time . those declaration make it clear that the UK do not , however , accept that compulsory jurisdiction in relation to " any dispute with a Government of any other country which be or have be a Member of the Commonwealth " . that involve and include Mauritius , so any dispute with Mauritius before the ICJ could not result in a bind judgment against the United Kingdom . that point have be put to Ministers and , as far as I know , they have not dissent from that analysis . if the ICJ could not make the bind judgment that the former Foreign Secretary tell we be inevitable , which other court might ? on that , again , I be afraid that we have not have clarity . on 13 November last year , the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) — who I see have the misfortune of have to defend this position once again today — answer an urgent question on the Chagos Islands . he say : " international court be reach judgment on the basis that Mauritius have sovereignty over the Chagos archipelago . " — [ Official Report , 13 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 793 . ] the Minister do not at that point say which court , but I have do some digging , and I think I be support in my assumption by what the Minister of State , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , say in open this debate . I think that he may have be refer to a determination make in January 2021 by the special chamber of the International Tribunal of the Law of the Sea when consider a dispute between Mauritius and the Maldives . tragically , I do not have time to go into the fascinating detail of that case , but in essence it be a dispute about the delimitation of maritime territory between those two state . the Maldives argue that the special chamber could not determine the case in question because there be an ongoing dispute about the sovereignty of the Chagos Islands between Mauritius and the UK . the special chamber decide , however , that it could treat Mauritius as the coastal state in the dispute before it , because of the ICJ ' s advisory opinion on the matter , which it say have legal effect . if that itlos case be what the Government be rely on , I think there be a few problem : first , the UK be not a party to that case ; and secondly , the ITLOS chamber be seemingly base its decision on that of the ICJ , which , as I have already indicate , could not make a bind ruling on the matter . I be not expect the House , much less the Government , to accept my opinion on this , but it seem to I that , at the very least , the UK would have the basis of a decent legal argument here . it do not seem to be that this itlos decision demonstrate that there be no further hope for UK claim of sovereignty over Diego Garcia . after a bit more prodding , the Government ' s argument move on and introduce the issue of access to the electromagnetic spectrum . on 5 February this year , the Minister of State at the Foreign Office answer yet another urgent question on the subject . before my right hon . and learn Friend move on to the spectrum , may I bring he back to UNCLOS ? as I understand it , article 298 ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) give we specific exemption from UNCLOS judgment across all those area . that be relevant to the UK in " dispute concern military activity … by government vessel and aircraft … in non - commercial service , and dispute concern law enforcement activity " in those area . on that , the Government ' s argument on UNCLOS fall , surely . I will give my right hon . friend a lawyer ' s favourite answer to any question : " it ' s complicated . " but here be the point : the only legal analysis be offer here — the only explanation — come from the Opposition Benches . the Government be not give we anything . if he be wrong in what he say , we need to hear why from the Minister , but we be not and that be what trouble I . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman be willing to give explanation , will he please explain why his party choose to start the engagement but have at no point explain the rationale for do so ? if the hon . Gentleman be patient , I promise that I will come to that , but I wish to deal in a logical order with what Ministers have themselves say to justify their action . on 5 February , the Minister of State at the Foreign Office answer another urgent question . in answer to my plea to give we more clarity on exactly what legal basis the Government be act on , he say : " we currently have unrestricte and sole access to the electromagnetic spectrum , which be use to communicate with satellite and which be guarantee and govern by the International Telecommunication Union , a United Nations body base in Geneva . if we lose it we can still communicate , but so can other . " — [ Official Report , 5 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 760 . ] I understand the point that he be make , but he do not explain how that issue might lead to a bind court ruling against the UK , and he do not even take a second opportunity to do so when ask about it again by my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) — those interested can find that answer in column 762 . luckily , however , my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary call a debate on this subject in Opposition time on 26 February , which be answer by the then Minister of State , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) . she repeat : " without a negotiate solution with Mauritius , it would pursue its legal campaign … that would lead to an inevitable , legally bind judgment , " . she be then interrupt , but go on to say that " in that kind of situation " — presumably that be the delivery of a bind judgment against the UK — " we would unfortunately see international organisation follow that determination , such as the International Telecommunication Union . " — [ Official Report , 26 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 874 . ] if we put all those ministerial utterance together , we be go round in circle . the Government say that they have to act because of the inevitability of a bind court judgment against the UK . they mention the ICJ , but the ICJ can not make a bind judgment against the UK on this . they hint at itlos case , but those refer to ICJ decision . the Government then say that they be worried about the action of the International Telecommunication Union , but when press that seem to mean action that would follow a bind court judgment . we be back to square one . be it the case — my right hon . and learn Friend be a former Attorney General — that the ITU treaty to which we and other be a party state specifically that the ITU have no authority over the allocation of military spectrum , or military communication ? it be clear that the ITU have no leverage legally at all over Diego Garcia . my right hon . friend make an important point , which I know he have make before . I repeat the point I make early : we be simply not get from the Government an adequate rebuttal of these point , and we need to have that . if the Government have a good answer to what he and my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) have say , Second Reading of the Bill be the moment for the Government to deliver that explanation . we be all still wait . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) be right , but the exist position go even far . be my right hon . and learn Friend aware of the write answer from the Government on 7 February this year : " individual country , not the ITU , make their own sovereign spectrum assignment in accordance with the Radio Regulations . the ITU have no legal authority over these assignment regardless of the country ' s civilian or military classification of spectrum . " ? I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend , and perhaps I should refine my argument . it be not just that the Government be not answer the question ; it be that when they do answer the question , they undermine their own argument . it be bad than we think . we be not get clarity from the Government about what would be the legal judgment that they themselves have rely on as almost the entire basis for their action , and this really matter . the Government owe we a proper explanation . I be prepared to concede — I hope the Minister will accept that I be a fair - minded person — that there may be a persuasive argument that the Government could make about which court and which circumstance would deliver the kind of judgment that make this action inevitable and necessary , but I have wait a long time to hear it , and I be still wait . I hope that when the Minister stand to sum up the debate he will give we that answer , because the House of Commons deserve to hear it . this be fundamental to the whole argument . we have press the Government for month to tell we what the legal threat to the island be . in his opening speech the Minister say that it be unclos . that be the justification they have give we . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that we have a general opt - out and two specific opt - out under article 298 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the United Nations convention on the law of the sea , which include " dispute concern military activity " ? we have an opt - out from UNCLOS . the Government ' s whole case be spurious — £ 35 billion worth of spurious . it be certainly very expensive . I know lawyer who charge big fee , but none of they would come close to that . my right hon . friend make his point , and again , the Minister will have another opportunity when he speak . it be not good enough , I be afraid , for hint and oblique reference to be make . we be owe a clear explanation . this be a fundamental decision on defence and security , and in financial term as my right hon . friend have just say , and we deserve to know . if the Minister tell the House that describe all that in detail be the sort of confidential and sensitive information that the whole House can not hear , I have good news for he : that be what the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament be for . I have the honour to be a member of that Committee , and it be perhaps regrettable that the Government do not choose to explain themselves and make their case to we before they bring the Bill to the House , but they do not . will my right hon . and learn Friend give way ? I give way to my fellow Committee member . I be extremely grateful to the former Attorney General for give way . he be right to say that the matter could have be — and still could be , as I think he will also want to confirm — bring to our Committee . if , even at this late juncture , an overture be make to our Committee — clearly , it would have to be discuss at Committee — it would be perfectly possible for the Government to set out in those term the advice they receive that legitimise the position that they have take . my right hon . friend make a good point . although all our hearing be hold within closed door , he be right that until that happen , our door be open . there be an opportunity for the Minister , if he wish to take it , to make that proposal . let I come back to the point that the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) make . his rejoinder and the rejoinder of his colleague and Ministers have always be the same throughout this debate . they say , " the last Government begin negotiation on this , so clearly the last Government accept the same logic that we accept . " that simply will not do . as Ministers and the Back Benchers behind they have be very keen to point out , the last Government have 11 round of negotiation on this question . if they have choose to do the deal that this Government have do , they have ample opportunity to do it , but they do not . that can only be because they do not believe it be the right deal to do . this Government be undoubtedly enthusiastic about get swift resolution of dispute — it seem that they apply the same principle to labour dispute — but settle a negotiation fast be really very easy if we give the person with whom we be negotiate everything they want . what Mauritius want out of this negotiation be sovereignty over the entire Chagos archipelago , and that be what this Government have give they . I be afraid that we really can not award any point for the fact that this Government have manage to resolve this issue more swiftly . the fact that the Government of which some of we Conservative Members be part do not resolve it that quickly be perhaps because they be not prepared to give ground on that particular issue . we need an explanation of why the Government feel it be necessary to do this deal . we need an explanation on what precisely the legal jeopardy they face be and what its origin be , and we need to know what the bind legal judgment they fear be . frankly , without those explanation , this House should not be ask to agree to this Bill or this treaty . we have hear from member on the Opposition bench a slew of political opportunism , scaremongere , some clich é bingo and some derogatory term — something that belong more in a tabloid than in this House — about the Chancellor of the Exchequer . back when these negotiation start , the conservative party know that a deal be need — it may have be somewhere on its list of priority when it still have some linger credibility about the good of the nation . the conservative party know that a deal be in the good interest of the United Kingdom and our ally . it know that without a deal , Mauritius could very well have pursue a sovereignty claim and allow Russia and China into the water around Diego Garcia . People do not sit through 11 round of negotiation if they do not think something be important ; they walk away . to give the previous Government credit , they do not do that . they understand the importance of a deal . on that basis , there be 17 round of formal negotiation for the Falkland Islands between ' 65 and ' 82 . what would the outcome be under the hon . Gentleman ' s way forward ? that point be cover before . we have already see scaremongere from the Opposition about the other british overseas territory , include the Falkland Islands and Gibraltar . I hope that the conservative party will reflect on and apologise for that . none the less , the previous Government know that a deal would keep Britain safe . they know that without a deal , international court could effectively make the base inoperable , and they know that that could plant China right on our doorstep . now , they can not even say why it be important . they can not say why they even start the negotiation ; several Government Members have raise that point , and not once have the Conservatives be able to say why , other than hide behind the fact that they be be entirely politically opportunist . they know all that , and they now pretend that none of it matter . they be play politic with Britain ' s safety . it be rare that I find myself align with the conservative party , but I share its concern for the structure and veracity of this deal . that be say , do the hon . member share my bewilderment that the conservative party have choose this particular hill to die on , give that the Bill be as much a product of its work as it be of Labour ' s ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . at the beginning of the intervention , I be go to point out that there be five year during which the Liberal Democrats be very close to the conservative party , but I will remove that thought from my head and agree with he . this do seem a very strange hill for the conservative party to die on , but I be not surprised by the level of hypocrisy we have see from some conservative Members . that be the real hypocrisy . the Conservatives have attack the cost of this deal , but they will not reveal what their own deal would have cost . government convention mean that their number be lock away — secret , hidden , unable to be scrutinise and compare . they will hide and hide . would Conservative Front Benchers like to give any figure , in any currency of their choosing ? what be their number ? how much be it go to cost ? what be the number on the bottom of the piece of paper after 11 round of negotiation ? the truth be that this Government secure the deal that the conservative party know be critical for our national security , but could not deliver . while we be talk about cost , let we put this into perspective . as the Minister say in his opening speech , France pay € 85 million a year for a base in Djibouti , one that share a fence with a chinese naval facility and enjoy none of the security that come with this Government ' s deal on Diego Garcia . Diego Garcia be 15 time big , more secure , and deliver unmatched operational freedom for the United Kingdom and our ally . let we be clear about what this treaty deliver . it secure Diego Garcia ; it lock in control of the land , the sea and the electromagnetic spectrum ; and it shut out foreign military from the outer island . that be a serious deal — a deal that represent value , one that the Tories could never close , but now choose to attack from behind a shield of secrecy . I do not know whether the hon . member listen to the outstanding , forensic dismantling of the Government ' s case by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , but on the basis that every constituency in this country will kiss away the opportunity to have £ 52 million as a result of this deal — that be what it be go to cost in total — would he like to tell the people of Dunfermline and Dollar why he would rather give away that amount of money to a foreign Government on a spurious legal basis than invest it in his own constituency ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention — he be someone for whom I have a lot of respect . I would tell my constituent that this country be now safe and more secure because of the deal that this Government have do . let we see who be on the Government ' s side . the United States back the deal , with President Trump have call it " a very long - term , powerful lease " . Australia , Canada , New Zealand , India , NATO and the overseas territory all back the deal , because they understand that Diego Garcia be vital to our security and theirs . who line up against it ? who be the proud company that the Conservatives keep ? Nigel Farage and Reform . order . we do not refer to member by name , but by constituency . I apologise for that , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have see Reform UK peddling fantasy about America that be flatly wrong . beyond these shore , what do we see ? Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in Beijing both know that they could have access to the water around Diego Garcia be it not for the deal that this Government have secure . that be the roll - call — that be who conservative Members stand with , and that be who they will be vote alongside if they block the Bill . we see reform swagger around , claim that it would get President Trump to block this deal , but the truth have be the exact opposite . the United States have clearly welcome this treaty , as we have hear so often this afternoon . reform do not just misread the room ; it misread and misrepresent one of our close ally , talk Britain down and peddle fantasy while a serious government deliver and secure our safety . this Bill be about strength and weakness . this be strength and that be weakness — order from the Government versus chaos from the Opposition , Britain stand with our ally versus Britain open the door to our adversary . just a couple of year ago , the Conservatives know that this deal be vital . they want it in office — like the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , it pain I to sometimes agree with the Conservatives , but for once , they be correct . they be right to want this deal , but only when they lose power do they suddenly discover their doubt . that be not principle ; it be opportunism . I understand the argument that the hon . Gentleman be make , but why do he think that the last Government do not make the deal ? I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his intervention . I listen very carefully to his speech — it be very interesting indeed , and I respect his viewpoint . my short answer be that the last government just could not seal a deal , like they could not seal a deal with the EU and could not seal a trade deal with India . they abandon the people of this country . I will close by say that I will proudly vote for this Bill tonight . it put the UK on the side of our ally and on the side of security , and ensure that we will be protect for generation to come . just to make a small comment on the previous speech , I have be here a little while , and I have never once stop regret take a Government handout to speak in support of the Government , because more often than not , it rebound on I . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and many other have make clear , there be two element to this issue . before I start on that , I want to say something about the Chagossians . they be the last people to have be seriously consult about any of this . the way that we behave to they back in the 1960 be appal . it should never have happen , and there be no need for it to have happen . they should have be able to stay on the archipelago , and we should have support they in that . they must be a part of this . I know that they be very fearful of this deal as it stand . my other point be that this arrangement be vague about what happen after 99 year . we be suppose to guess , or believe that we can trust government to make the right decision . the statement on the right of the Chagossians be completely miss a sense of where they will be , what they want and how we will bring that about . I pay tribute to the Member who make a good intervention on that point . let I quickly deal with the legal case , and then I will discuss the cost , and China and Russia . the Government have be pepper with request non - stop since this process begin to explain the legal threat that mean that we would be in real trouble if we do not seal a deal — any deal . right the way along , they would not exactly explain . there be little suggestion here and there that a judgment would lead to certain thing . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam have be absolutely right on that . today , I think that the door slightly open . I have know the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , for a long time , and his name be a good description of his solidity and purposefulness . the Minister who open the debate , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , make the point that the legal threat be to do with UNCLOS . I be intrigue by that , because , as I just say to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , within UNCLOS , clear for all to see , be a complete let - out for the UK Government when it come to the case that they suggest would be bring against they under UNCLOS . the threat simply do not exist . I repeat that there be two exemption , under article 298 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 298 ( 1 ) ( c ) . the first have the UK opt out of " dispute concern military activity … by government vessel and aircraft engage in non - commercial service , and dispute concern law enforcement activity " . the same apply under 298 ( 1 ) ( c ) in relation to matter take up by the UN Security Council . the important point be that the threat do not need to be recognise , because ultimately this come back to the original International Court of Justice ruling . that be an advisory judgment , because the Court can not make an absolute judgment on anything to do with our relationship with the Commonwealth , either exist or previous ; that be an important point . we keep come back to this check on what would happen . the idea that everybody will dispute with we on that be simply nonsense . from a legal perspective , I think the Government have come unstuck in this debate . I have sit through many debate in this House , and it be rare that a government completely come unstuck on a case of legality . the second bit that the Government have come unstuck on be the money . on the legal side , they will not tell we exactly what the situation be . there have be hint , proposal and suggestion that somehow we be in a desperate situation . on the money , I have never see a government as unable or unwilling to tell we exactly how much thing cost or be worth . they be normally quick to do so , and to blame the other side , or whatever — it do not really matter . everybody have be chase the Government for that information , and now we discover that they have gerrymander the figure for the overall statement . the total cost be nearly £ 35 billion , and we need to deal with total cost . let I remind the Government of the problem with what they call the GDP deflator and the so - call social time discount method . the Government Actuary ' s Department have dismiss that as a real way of calculate cost for this kind of issue , and it have re - emphasise the fact that understand the total cost be the only way to look at a long - term treaty . the Government be rely on the cost - benefit analysis use for social project . there be particular concern about long - term project , and a real dispute about whether such a method can predict precisely , or even reasonably well , the overall cost in the long term . there be a lot of concern about whether that be the right way to go . add to that the fact that the Government be try to predict what will happen in Mauritius , under the Mauritian Government , over the next many year . this be a 99 - year deal , and there be no way on earth that we have any control . I wonder whether my right hon . friend can help I in give a prediction . two family have swap leadership of Mauritius over the last 60 year . do he see any reason to doubt that the same two family will swap leadership over the next 60 ? that be exactly the point . there be serious concern about the uncertainty surround future growth and societal wellbeing . if there be such concern when it come to UK prediction about the UK , imagine how difficult it be to predict what will happen in Mauritius , so this should be dismiss . it be interesting that after not answer the question for so long , suddenly the Government have pop up with a new device . they say that if we do not accept the figure , we be completely dismiss the Green Book , but the overall cost be not a Green Book issue , because this be about pay somebody money outside the UK , not about control cost . that be why the Green Book have never be use for this purpose before , and never will . I simply say to the Government that the money side of this have fall apart again . I come to the third element . as I say early , we have have no real vote or debate on the treaty , as oppose to the Bill . the old CRaG system have be rush through , without a vote . I have to tell the Minister , for whom I have a huge amount of respect , that that be simply appal , give that we be deal with something as strategically important as this treaty . clause 5 of the Bill , which be a very flimsy document , be entitle " further provision : order in Council " . anybody who read that will have a sudden intake of breath . the whole point of this Bill be negate by clause 5 . what be the point of debate the rest of the Bill , give that clause 5 say that at any stage , and under any circumstance , the Government can change it all by Orders in Council ? absolutely everything can be change by Orders in Council , with no vote and no dispute . if the Government decide to go in a different direction , they do not have to consult Parliament any more . the sweep power in the Bill be ridiculous . when the Minister be in opposition , he use to spend his whole time moan — quite rightly — about government who give themselves such power . even by the standard of previous government , this Bill be pretty astonishing . it be a massive sweep . this be not really democracy any more ; it be monocracy . in other word , we have give up debate and dispute , and we have hand thing over to one person — the Prime Minister . I say to the Government that the Bill be appal , and they really need to rethink it . we simply can not go through with something as appalling as this . I can remember the Maastricht debate , and various other in which we spend a long time debate clause on the Floor of the House . that be the right thing to do , because such issue be important . international treaty be vital to our wellbeing , and the Bill simply do not work . the last thing I want to say be on China . I would say this , because I be sanction by China , as be some of my hon . friend . I suspect that other will be sanction as well in due course . if they carry on work with I in the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China , they be bind to be sanction , and I look forward to their join we at that table . there be no way on earth that China do not benefit from this Bill . China have its eye on the very important flow of commercial traffic that run just below the Chagos island , which it have always want to be able to block , control or interfere with . the Chinese already have a naval base in Sri Lanka , which they get by default on the back of the belt and road initiative , due to non - payment . for a long time , they have be look at how , under their arrangement with Mauritius , they will eventually be able to intervene . they be two or three step far forward as a result of this Bill . it do not secure we against that absolutely , because we give up absolute security and control when we decide to hand over sovereignty to Mauritius . I be not yet on the chinese Communist party ' s sanction list , but perhaps I will be shortly . do the right hon . member share my concern about the 99 - year lease of the island , give that some of our adversary across the world plan and strategise over the very long term , and 99 year be actually a short period of time ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the chinese Government have a long - term plan . in fact , they be very clear about what they wish to do . if anybody do not think that China pose a threat on all these issue , what be they do last week when , on our television screen , we see President Xi , with the north korean dictator on one side and the russian dictator on the other , talk about a new world order ? that continue to be the chinese Government ' s purpose . they should have be take into the upper tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . why be they not there ? my suspicion be that this be not do because it might well have end the whole negotiation on the Chagos island , as there would have be huge intervention , and we could not possibly have do aught else but stop the negotiation . in conclusion , I honestly think that the Government need to pause this , go back to the drawing board , and say , " we get it wrong " , but I say this in answer to the endless briefing they have give Labour member on what the conservative party do about the Chagos island in government . I have reach the conclusion that no matter who be in power , I be in opposition , so I can categorically tell the House that , whatever else happen , this be quite rightly end by Lord Cameron when he become Foreign Secretary . some of we make it very clear that this should not have go ahead for many of the reason that I have lay out . I end by say to the Minister that it be no good come back later and say , " I wish we hadn ' t do this . " now be the time to stand up and say , as the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) do , that this do not work , it must stop , and the Government must think again . I rise in support of the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill . this Bill be not only timely , but essential for our national security , our international obligation and the strategic future of the United Kingdom . to be clear , Diego Garcia be not just an isolated atoll in the indian ocean , but one of the most geopolitically significant military outpost of the 21st century . it serve as a critical base for joint UK - US operation in a region fraught with instability from piracy off the horn of Africa , and give the grow threat of chinese expansionism in the Indo - Pacific . this Bill secure long - term operational certainty for our armed force . it ensure our ability to meet NATO commitment , protect trade route vital to the global economy and respond quickly to humanitarian crisis across Asia and Africa . in a time of escalate global tension everywhere from the South China sea to the Red sea , we can not afford ambiguity when it come to our defence infrastructure . I have listen with concern to the argument make by Opposition Members , some of whom appear more preoccupied with ideological purity than practical governance . be it not strange that 85 % of the negotiating round on the Diego Garcia deal take place under the Conservatives ? they have access to the same legal advice , the same security briefing and the same threat assessment as we do . only after leave government and with no deal of their own do they begin play politic with national security . their sudden opposition be not principle ; it be opportunistic and irresponsible . opposition member talk about international law and cite advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice as if they be bind judgment . let we not forget , however , that sovereignty be not a matter of hashtag or press release ; it be a matter of law , treaty and responsibility . the United Kingdom have administer the British Indian Ocean Territory for more than half a century , and we have do so in close co - ordination with our ally , especially the United States . simply to walk away , as some have suggest , would be an act of geopolitical negligence . to those who argue that the base should be dismantle or hand over to another power under the banner of anti - colonialism , I say that they should be very careful for what they wish . if Britain and the United States vacate Diego Garcia , we would leave behind not a vacuum , but a prize , a strategic jewel , which would be swiftly eye by authoritarian regime that have little regard for human right , international law or democratic principle . our responsibility be not to rewrite history by dismantle today ' s defence , but to shape the future by ensure that they remain strong , legitimate and effective . the Bill provide legal clarity and the operational authority for the continue use of Diego Garcia . it will strengthen the framework for oversight , introduce renew commitment to environmental stewardship and , importantly , establish a pathway for dialogue with chagossian representative about resettlement and heritage — it be important that their voice be head and listen to . this be not a Bill that close door , but one that open they , without compromise national and global security . opposition for the sake of opposition be not leadership . would the Opposition have we abandon a key , NATO - align military base to prove a point ? would they rather hand strategic influence in the Indian Ocean to those who undermine the international rule - base order ? let I remind the House of the real threat in our world : cyber - attack , terrorist attack and network , illegal arm trafficking and hostile naval activity . Diego Garcia be not some relic of the cold war ; it be a strategic capability that we rely on today . rise — I will not give way . the Bill be pragmatic , proportionate , ground in the national interest and fully compatible with our democratic value . it do not ignore the past ; it confront it , and seek to chart a responsible path forward . I urge my colleague across the House , especially those waver on the fence , to vote not out of ideological purity , but out of practical necessity . the world be watch . our ally be watch . history , too , will judge what we choose today . let we choose strength , responsibility , regional and global security , and to back the UK ' s national security . I call Paul Holmes . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . during an intervention on the Minister for Defence Procurement , I say that he be act in a " duplicitous " way . I have already be rebuke by Mr Speaker , so you do not have to step in , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I would like to say that I misspoke when I say that the Minister be not be genuine . I apologise to he — I never play the man ; I always play the ball . it be a shame that he be not present to hear that apology . however , I welcome the Minister for Defence Procurement — he be a good friend of mine , and I look forward to he serve in that position — but I will say that that career have not start well . the first moment that he appear before the House in charge of defence procurement in this country , he single - handedly start by advocate dispose of a vital piece of defence infrastructure , which be not only relevant but essential to the national security of the country . he stand here to try to defend the indefensible . I suggest to the Whips Office that they might want to look at some of his decision in future , if he be in charge of procure defence equipment on behalf of this country , because so far he have only be successful at get rid of vital infrastructure . I hope that he do well . the first job and the first duty of any government that serve the great people of this great country be to keep their people and themselves safe . I never think that I would come to this House on a day like today to see a Government , this Government , create the big act of self - sabotage that I think we have see in generation of elect Houses in the history of our nation . the Government be harm not only our security , but the strategic interest of our people and the security of this country . if the deal be harm our strategic interest , why be it back by our ally , the United States and NATO ? if the hon . Gentleman have bother to show up for the entire debate — I think that he have only just arrive in the Chamber — then he would have hear the answer to those question in excellent speech give by hon . member from across the House . in response to his question , why be the deal also back by so many county that have malign influence towards the interest of the United Kingdom , such as Russia , China and Iran ? if he stay for the rest of the debate , he might hear some answer to those question too . it be easy for Labour Members to stand in the Chamber and read a Labour party briefing , think that if they say thing time and again , they must be true , and that people outside the Chamber will expect what they say will be true . I be the parliamentary private Secretary to Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton when he be Foreign Secretary . he say to Foreign Office official at that time that the negotiation that have start and be be explore go past his red line . my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , who be Foreign Secretary when some of the negotiation happen , say to his Foreign Office official , " as the democratically elect Foreign Secretary , these recommendation go beyond my red line . " those negotiation be then stop by Lord Cameron — I remember he instruct Foreign Office official to stop those negotiation — so I say to hon . member , include the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , that just because negotiation and conversation have start , we do not have to accept a conclusion that we do not want . as we have hear already in the debate , apparently we can not hear a negotiating position , so will the hon . Gentleman describe in detail exactly what those red line be ? I will tell the hon . Gentleman what one of those red line be : not pay £ 35 billion to another country . in case he want to read his Labour party briefing again , I remind the hon . Gentleman that another red line for the last Foreign Secretary be that he clearly do not accept unilaterally that the sovereignty of the Chagos island fall with Mauritius . that be a key difference between the last government and this Government . this be a bad deal for Britain : it will cost £ 35 billion , while the Government tax and spend and make people in this country poorer , and in an ever - change international security situation , this country be unilaterally give up a strategically important defence base , in an area of the world where we be see more geopolitical uncertainty . I can not put into word how bad this Bill be , except to say that it be an act of self - sabotage that we have not see in this House by a democratically elect Government for generation . to reiterate , not only be this a bad deal , but it be back by every nation that be malign to our national interest , include China , Russia and Iran . last week , at an international summit , those country be actively advocate some of the malign influence about which this Government and the last Government speak about , and they be actively back this deal . I challenge Labour Members to look Opposition Members or any of their constituent in the eye and say that a deal that be successful for this country should be back by Iran , China and Russia . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be try to work within the confine of parliamentary etiquette , but I have to say that there be something deeply concern about the way that this Government have choose to negotiate the term of the agreement . we have to look at the close link between the key people who negotiate this deal with the Mauritian Government and the link — private link — to the Prime Minister and Ministers in this Government . the Prime Minister of Mauritius have say in the Mauritian Parliament that official be ask to leave the room while private negotiation be go ahead . I have never know a responsible government who be try to hand over sovereignty of a british overseas territory to ask official , who be there to protect the integrity and the transparency of the of decision that minister take , to leave the room so that a negotiation can go on . why have the Government hide the cost of the deal ? why have they refuse to give this House a solid and sustainable way to scrutinise the decision of the Government ? they have avoid scrutiny at every turn . perhaps I can invite my hon . friend to be helpful to the Minister . he clearly hold he in some regard , and he be right that he have get himself into something of a mess . by far the good way for the Government to proceed from hereon would be to make much more available either to this House or , as the former Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) suggest , to the Intelligence and Security Committee . that would clarify the term of this trade — why it happen and the assessment that be make that lead up to it — in a way that the House would be able to either legitimise what the Minister claim or refute it . a lack of transparency be half the Minister ' s problem . I agree with my right hon . friend . I find it quite concern early that the Chairman of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , rely on the fact that american counterpart in an Administration that he do not scrutinise back the deal , so there be no need for the Defence Committee to interrogate Ministers of the Government it be suppose to scrutinise . there have be two offer this afternoon , one by my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , and the other by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , in his expert speech . there be a scrutiny structure in this House call the Intelligence and Security Committee to which the Minister could refer this decision , and he can rest assure in the knowledge that there be expert member across the whole House who could offer their expert opinion on the deal . the Government have choose not to do that . that be an indictment of the transparency and the drive the Government have show in get the deal very quickly . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Foreign Affairs Committee have the Minister in front of we to discuss the deal , so there have be parliamentary scrutiny on this , include by other Committees , just not by the Defence Committee . on the cost , as the PPS to Lord Cameron , maybe he can say a little bit about what the cost be of the deal they negotiate at the end of those 11 round — whether it be high or low than the deal we have reach now . I can tell the hon . Gentleman . let I say it very clearly and very slowly , because I know that hon . member have write their speech before the debate start : zero . zero be less than the deal the Minister be choose . let I repeat it very slowly for the hon . Gentleman and for member across the House : the deal be end . there be no deal . the negotiation stop . there be no negotiation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a second . I just want to emphasise the point so we do not hear it again . there be no negotiation . there be no deal . [ interruption . ] the negotiation be stop . there be no deal on offer , and no money be be offer . I hope that member will scratch that bit out of their speech as they go forward . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , call the mauritian Prime Minister on 22 February 2024 and reassure he that " the UK remain committed to a mutually beneficial outcome … and their team look forward to continue to work on this . " will he comment on that ? yes , I absolutely can . I be not a lawyer , but I would say it be crystal clear in the sentence the hon . Gentleman have just read : " mutually beneficial " . what the democratically elect Government of the day decide , through Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton , who I say — if the hon . Gentleman be in the debate early , he would have hear it — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman say he have other thing to do , Madam Deputy Speaker . I suggest that if he think this be very important , he should have be here for the whole debate and not just intervene on a debate that I think be about national security . I repeat the point to he : the Foreign Secretary at the time end the negotiation because , as the then Prime Minister say , " mutually beneficial " be deem not to have be the case . I want to touch briefly on the argument put forward by the Government about hide behind international law . I can not do it justice like my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , but it be clear that the Government keep hide behind judgment that they have to follow . I remind the Minister again that it be not a bind judgment . if the Government have choose to challenge that non - bind judgment , he would have have the support of those of we on the Opposition Benches . the Government decide not to do that and have accept a non - bind judgment and fast - track the capitulation and surrender of a british overseas territory for the first time in a long time . the Minister could have challenge that decision , because it be non - binding . I shall let the record stand with the speech by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , who go through the numerous international structure that this Government have sign up to and set out how we do not have to follow that . lastly , clause 2 be absolutely disastrous . the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) speak of the historical context here . I congratulate and commend the hon . gentleman for his speech ; he be an incredibly brave and principled man who stand up for his constituent . under clause 2 , this Government have decide unilaterally to recognise that Mauritius have sovereignty over the Chagos island . I remind the House and the Government that Mauritius have never in the historical context of the Chagos island have sovereignty , and that this Government have choose to give sovereignty over the island to a country that have never have it . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a second . some , include the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , have say that we want to " return " the island . I say that be impossible , because it be not possible to return sovereignty to a country that never have sovereignty in the first place . this be a decision and a negotiation undertake by this Government , and they should hang their head in shame over the way they have do it . the agreement that be reach between the british and Mauritian Governments in 1965 be to separate the Chagos island from Mauritius . decolonisation process of the UN and all other have confirm that it should never have happen , and that they should never have be separate . if they have never be separate , we would not even be have this debate today . I disagree with the right hon . Gentleman , because it be clear in the negotiation that take place in the ' 60 , when the United Kingdom pay Mauritius , that Mauritius actively accept that it have no sovereignty claim over the island , and that stand in international agreement from time go by . this Bill be a bad deal . it be a bad deal for the United Kingdom and for our constituent ; and it be a bad deal because of the money that this Government have decide to spend , and because of their decision to tax people while spend £ 35 billion overseas . the Government have abandon the usual norm of the traditional government of this country of stand up in a transparent way for the way we act internationally ; they have decide to abdicate their responsibility in do that . this be a bad deal for this country . it have be welcome by malign international partner , it have undermine our defence , and it will cost we billion . above all , with this Bill , the Government have abandon and avoid every scrutiny mechanism within the House of Commons that would enable hon . member to challenge they and get the answer that this House quite rightly deserve — [ interruption . ] Government member say that we have the chance today , but I remind they that many , many member have ask question of Ministers about the legal position on refuse this , and Ministers have be unable and unwilling to provide answer in the context of the international law that we have speak about to do that . this be the day that the Labour Government show the british people out there , as well as the Chagossians in the Public Gallery today , that they do not stand up for the people of this country . they do not stand up when we see that international law might go against we . they choose to abandon their responsibility to protect the people of this country and the military asset that this country have in the overseas territory . I predict that , in the four year ahead , this £ 35 billion surrender treaty will come to haunt this Labour Government . I remind Government Members that after they have go through the Lobby and vote for the Bill tonight — after they have read out their Labour party briefing say that it be the right thing to do — they will have to knock on door and explain how they give £ 35 billion of taxpayer ' hard - earn money to a country that never have sovereignty over this british overseas territory . they should hang their head in shame , and I think they will do so . order . before we move on to the next speaker , I remind right hon . and hon . member that it be not in order to impute false or unavowed motive to any other individual hon . member in this place . it have be a long afternoon , but I should say from the start that I genuinely believe that the motivation of all of we be the national interest of the United Kingdom . whatever difference of opinion there might be , I think it be important that we try to avoid hyperbole in this matter and think coolly and calmly about what be in the UK national interest . there be test we need to apply to what we be discuss : first , do it protect UK national security ; secondly , do our ally and the professional military and security establishment support it ; and thirdly , be the cost and obligation reasonable and proportionate ? we also need to have a weather eye to our responsibility to the Chagossians , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) for speak passionately on behalf of his constituent . I believe the answer to those three test be yes , and I will address they in turn . Diego Garcia be not just another overseas facility ; it be fundamental to our security . it be where our force and US force have launch operation against high - value terrorist group . it be a communication and logistic hub , and it be where we monitor hostile state and safeguard global trade route that underpin our economy . without this treaty , all that be at risk . minister have outline that international ruling could make the base inoperable . I speak early to Dr Marco Longobardo , a specialist in international law , and it be clear that even the non - bind ICJ judgment be nevertheless a matter of international law and potentially give hostile country the opening that they need to contemplate interference in the island — in the same way that chinese claim in the South China sea be not recognise by many country . that be all at risk . our ability to berth submarine , patrol water or launch operation would be compromise , and a vacuum would be create . will the hon . member give way ? I believe that the hon . Member have have quite a lot of turn today , and I have be wait a long time without intervene , so I will proceed . if we allow a vacuum to be create , it would be fill by China or other in a region that be vital to our security . I will come back to China in a moment , because what China think about this treaty be important as well . turn to the first test , the treaty secure 99 year of guarantee access , with the option to extend it by a further 40 year ; 99 year be good enough for Lord Salisbury , so it be good enough for I . it give we full operational control over installation , logistic , communication and the electromagnetic spectrum . it establish a 24 - nautical - mile buffer zone and ban any foreign military presence on the outer island . we have talk about how it protect a unique maritime environment and provide tangible support through the trust fund for chagossian community . on the first test I be satisfied . on the second test — whether the agreement command the backing of ally and expert — other colleague have speak powerfully about this , but Lord Goldsmith , a former Attorney General , say it be " consistent with our national security interest and with our respect for international law " . the international support be equally strong . Australia ' s Kevin Rudd call it a " good outcome for Mauritius , for Australia , for the UK and for our collective security interest " . Canada ' s foreign ministry say that it ensure " the long - term , secure and effective operation " of the joint base , strengthen a free and open Indo - Pacific . in the United States , where there be not much that get bipartisan support , it be a bipartisan matter . Antony Blinken say that America " strongly support " the negotiation . Secretary of State Marco Rubio commend the " leadership and vision " show . the democratic former Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin say that the agreement will " safeguard strategic security interest into the next century . " I believe an hon . Member have already quote President Trump , who describe it as an amazing deal , a beautiful deal or whatever kind of deal — but a good deal , that be the main point . the international consensus be clear . our ally , partner and expert back the deal . I be very take by the comment of Professor Benjamin Sacks of the RAND school of public policy in the United States . he say : " I contend that Beijing privately view the agreement , even if modify to ameliorate some Chagossians ' outstanding demand , somewhat as a setback . in practical term , it gain little if any advantage from it . " he add : " the Chagos issue constitute a perennial problem for british foreign policy ; one that China could simultaneously exploit to demonstrate its suppose adherence to exist rbo " — rule - base order — " and undermine the UK ' s traditionally important role in maintain it . " he also say that the deal deter Port Louis — Mauritius — from become an effective client state of Beijing . on the point of whether our ally support it , I believe that the treaty meet the test . will the hon . Gentleman allow an intervention ? I will not . I experience the right hon . Gentleman defend the hereditary principle last week , and I do not think I have the strength in I this week to listen to another argument . the final test be on cost and obligation . again , minister have talk powerfully about the deal be less than 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . comparison have be make with what the French be pay in Djibouti , and I be glad that we be get a well deal than the French . of course , Diego Garcia be 15 time large than those basis and in a more strategic location . the treaty give we immense operational freedom . it therefore seem to I that this be a modest investment for an irreplaceable asset . the risk from delay or abandonment — in this argument , we have to balance the treaty with the risk of what could happen — be vastly great . the hon . Gentleman describe Diego Garcia as an irreplaceable asset , but the Chagossians sit in the Gallery do not see it as an asset ; they see it as their home . even though they have be displace from their home for the good part of 50 year , they tell I that they see the action in the Chamber as a new round of the same colonial humiliation they experience in the 1960 and 1970 . what do the hon . Gentleman say to those Chagossians here today ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important aspect . we should all be honest that , as be put powerfully by my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) , our country ' s history with the Chagossians have be very poor — if we look at some of the diplomatic cable from the 1960 , we see that disgraceful language be use — but I be reassure by what Ministers say about the preamble of the treaty and some of the provision put in place . it be a matter of fact that the previous Government be in negotiation with Mauritius over this issue . that be the case , and there will have be motivation for their do that . I be worried about how our other overseas territory be be drag into this . a couple of month ago , I be in Gibraltar with colleague who privately tell I they be horrified that party politic be be play with their community . I be glad to see that Gibraltar ' s Chief Minister be clear on the record that there be " no possible read across " to Gibraltar , and the Governor of the Falklands say that the " historical context … be very different . " I be confident that we meet the three test . will the hon . member give way ? no , I be afraid that I will not . in closing , I believe that the three test have be meet : the treaty meet our national security requirement , it have the backing of our ally , and it come at a reasonable cost . it would be very dangerous for we to dither or delay any long in view of the potential threat to that base . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . the Foreign Affairs Committee , on which I sit — I welcome two of my Labour colleague from the Committee and my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) to the debate — have have the opportunity to question the Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , although I be not entirely persuade by some of his answer . that be not to say that the Intelligence and Security Committee , which have other power , be not an appropriate body for look at some aspect — indeed , the Defence Committee should also do so . the one thing that I think everybody agree on be the importance of Diego Garcia and the Chagos island to the United Kingdom . my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) quote Admiral Lord West , his former boss — he be , of course , a Minister in the last Labour Government and the security adviser to the Prime Minister — who say : " it be no exaggeration to say that Diego Garcia — the large of the Chagos Islands — host the most strategically important US air and logistic base in the Indian Ocean and be vital to the defence of the UK and our ally . " I have no doubt that Labour Members share that sentiment , but perhaps not his later comment , which be : " an agreement with Mauritius to surrender sovereignty over the Chagos Islands threaten to undermine core british security interest , and those of key ally , most notably the United States . " we do need to listen to the warning he give . Admiral Lord West have be refer to twice so far in the debate . my right hon . friend may be unaware that Admiral Lord West have a letter publish in the national press on 28 May in which he talk about the " disgraceful decision to hand over ownership of the Chagos archipelago " . he add : " I do not accept that the move be ' absolutely vital for our defence and intelligence ' , as the Prime Minister claim . " I wonder what Government back Benchers who have be slavishly read their script make of that from someone of that calibre — a former director of Defence Intelligence . my hon . friend be absolutely right — will the right hon . member give way ? if I might just answer my hon . friend before do so . Admiral Lord West have immense experience and knowledge . if the Defence Committee should decide to look at this , it might well ask he to give evidence on the basis of his considerable experience in the area . will the right hon . member explain how UNCLOS enable intelligence activity , and then perhaps why we have represent the view that we have on the basis of our experience and understanding ? I will come on to UNCLOS . as the hon . member know , it be an organisation that have express a view , but not one that be bind on the United Kingdom . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , the former Attorney General , set out very clearly the various international opinion that have be express but which be not bind or mandatory for the United Kingdom to follow . that be critical to this debate . will the right hon . member please explain , then , what the limit of UNCLOS be on the sovereign space — sea , land and air — around Diego Garcia , as they stand and as they be extend in the agreement ? I can not answer the hon . Gentleman specifically on that issue , but I can tell he that it have be absolutely clear that whatever the unclos opinion be , it be not bind on this country . we will read with interest its view , but it be not one that we be necessarily require to follow . the exist position have safeguard the interest of this country for a very long period , so the first question one be require to ask be : why be we change a guarantee security status for this country by hand over the sovereignty of Diego Garcia ? as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam have say , it be base on opinion that have be express but not one that we be require to follow . as the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) say , I understand that the original linkage of the Chagos island to Mauritius that take place be regard as a matter of administrative convenience . however , they be actually 1 , 250 mile apart . on that basis , when the United Kingdom agree to the independence of Mauritius , it be separate from the Chagos island . there be no suggestion at that time that the two should be link and that the island be give over to Mauritius , which , despite the linkage , have no claim and no involvement in their running . do the right hon . Gentleman , who be my colleague on the Foreign Affairs Committee , acknowledge that by open negotiation with Mauritius , the last Government concede that there be a point around sovereignty to be discuss and that , certainly from then onwards , it be difficult for this Government to roll back that point ? it have already be roll back . the hon . Gentleman be right that the last Government begin discussion because Mauritius express a view . however , that be on the basis that a mutually beneficial arrangement could be reach . it be conclude that such an agreement could not be reach , and on that basis the last Government cease the negotiation . it be not a question of their being roll back ; it be this Government who choose to reopen negotiation that have be close down by the previous Government . I come back to the international judgment . the other one cite by Ministers on the Government Front Bench early on in the discussion , when this issue be first raise , be the risk to access to electromagnetic spectrum as a result of the ITU potentially reach a judgment that might be base on the non - bind judgment express by the ICJ . there be no actual evidence that it be go to do that , but it be possible that it might , and for that reason the Government express the view that this be important . I would point out that the ITU have no ability to determine the use of spectrum . the Minister , in answer a write parliamentary question in February this year , make it clear that the allocation of spectrum be a matter for sovereign state . the ITU be a sort of gentleman ' s club where everyone get together to discuss these matter , but it be not able to hand over the right to the use of spectrum from one country to another . it be also worth note that the ITU have , over the year , be subject to considerable pressure from China , which have a secretary general of the ITU . I recall from my time deal with issue around the ITU the real concern about how the Chinese be seek to use the ITU , so in my view it be a good thing that the ITU do not have the power to allocate spectrum . there be also serious strategic concern that the Government have not yet properly address . as have already be mention , an element of the agreement involve a requirement for we to " expeditiously inform " Mauritius of any armed attack on a third state directly emanate from the base . when the Minister give evidence to the Committee , I press he on whether that would require advance notification — indicate assent . he be nod . he give I a very firm assurance that that be not the case . that be of some reassurance , but it do not go far enough . the fact that we be no long able to carry out action from our own base without then have to notify Mauritius , and presumably take note of any objection it have , represent a limitation that could well affect decision as to where to deploy asset . rise — I shall give way to my right hon . friend , who be an expert on these matter . if this mean that we do not have to inform Mauritius in advance of a direct armed attack from the base , presumably it mean that we have to inform it as soon as possible after such an attack . if such an attack be an overt attack , Mauritius would presumably know about it already because everyone would have see it , so this rather suggest that we might have to inform it if there have be some sort of covert attack that other people have not see and that it would otherwise not know about . be that a satisfactory situation ? my right hon . friend make a fair point . a requirement for we to tell the Mauritians what have be happen from the base be exactly what might influence decision as to its use for operation of the kind he describe . the Minister give evidence to the Committee on this point just a few day , I think , after the Americans have launch their attack on Iran , which do not involve Diego Garcia . that be something I raise with the Minister . I know how seriously the right hon . Gentleman take these issue , and it be important for the House to understand this . I can confirm what I say to he previously , but also I draw his attention to article 3 ( 2 ) ( b ) in the treaty and to annex 1 . article 3 ( 2 ) ( b ) set out clearly that " the party shall not undermine , prejudice or otherwise interfere with the long - term , secure and effective operation of the Base , and shall cooperate to that end ; and … the United Kingdom shall have full responsibility for the defence and security of Diego Garcia . " it set out clearly our unrestricted ability to conduct the operation , include with the United States . that be very clear ; it be in the treaty , and it be important that the House understand that . I understand that that be part of the treaty , but I hope that when the Minister wind up , he will address the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) that the requirement to " expeditiously inform " Mauritius , even after an operation , presumably mean that we must do so as soon as possible , and that that will presumably apply to whatever kind of operation have take place use the base . perhaps he could tell we whether that might compromise decision about the use of the base . the other aspect I raise with the Minister when he be in front of the Committee be Mauritius be a signatory of the Pelindaba treaty . the Pelindaba treaty state that signatory will not have nuclear weapon on their soil . Britain , the UK , be not a signatory of it , but , as I say , Mauritius be . again , the Minister tell the Committee that there be no way in which anything in the agreement would affect the operational use of the base , but he would not go far and comment specifically on the aspect of potentially nuclear weapon on the Diego Garcia base . that be something of real concern , and I hope the Minister might say a little more about that conflict between his assurance and Mauritius ' s membership of the Pelindaba treaty , which specifically say that there should not be nuclear weapon hold on the sovereign territory of signatory . I turn to the cost of the treaty to the UK . we be tell that there be some disagreement about the precise figure . I have to say that even £ 3 . 5 billion seem pretty large to I , let alone £ 35 billion , which be universally believe on the Opposition side to be a more accurate figure . it have be suggest , nevertheless , that this be a relatively small amount of money and it be a good deal . I recall that when this be first suggest , a different Mauritian Government be in power . the Prime Minister of Mauritius at that time have sign a deal , which the current Prime Minister of Mauritius describe as a terrible deal and that as soon as he be elect , he would reopen the whole discussion . it certainly appear that he be successful in do so : the sum that have now be agree be , the Mauritian Prime Minister have tell we , considerably big than his predecessor have originally agree , and this be a great success of the new Prime Minister of Mauritius that he manage to squeeze even more money out of the British Government . that do beg the question : at what point do it stop be a good deal ? the impression give be that the British Government be so keen to sign up to this deal , they basically have sign away to almost any sum advance by Mauritius . as one or two of my hon . friend have make clear , that will be a difficult message to sell on the doorstep at a time when the Government be have to make significant saving and to raise taxis . in particular , I be concern — the Minister will understand why — about the impact on the Foreign Office budget , because the Foreign Office suffer the big cut of any Whitehall Department in the last spending round . it be already unclear about how those saving will be meet , and there be speculation that the budget of the British Council or the World Service , or our representation in embassy around the world , will be reduce . despite those pressure and potentially very damaging cut to Foreign Office expenditure , the Foreign Office appear to be expect to meet part of this bill . the Minister be unable to tell the Committee how the bill would be divide up between the Foreign Office budget and the Ministry of Defence budget . perhaps that be something else that he might say a little more about when he wind up . I will also touch on the other aspect of the consequence of this deal : the impact on the environment , which have be refer to by one or two member . I pay tribute to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , who be , I think it fair to say , engage in other project at the moment . she be assiduous in raise with the Minister her concern about the treaty ' s impact on an incredibly important marine environment — that be recognise around the world . she write to the Minister , as he will be aware , and say : " my principal concern be that there be now no funding mechanism in place to ensure Mauritius will properly resource marine protection in the Chagos Archipelago … without any dedicated funding mechanism … there be nothing to ensure that this protection will continue other than the on - go willingness of the Mauritian Government to allocate resource " . as have be observe , the archipelago be 1 , 250 mile away from Mauritius , and we be not entirely convinced that that willingness in Mauritius , on which the Government appear to be pin their hope , exist . finally , I wish to acknowledge the presence of the Chagossians in the Public Gallery . they have be very badly treat over year , and it be of concern to I that they appear to have have virtually no input in this agreement , and that there have be no consultation with they . I know that a contact group be be establish in the Foreign Office , but there be some scepticism about whether it have ever meet , and about how many staff will be allocate to it . perhaps the Minister might give detail in his reply . [ interruption . ] I be pleased to hear he say that it meet last week . I be grateful to the Government for answer question so far , but an awful lot remain , and the answer that I have hear have fail to convince I that this treaty be in the economic , strategic and environmental interest of this country or the Chagos island . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the Bill , which safeguard our national security and protect our constituent . Diego Garcia be one of the most important military basis in the world . from that facility , Britain and the United States project stability across the indian ocean , the Gulf and the wide Indo - Pacific . the base have be vital in the fight against terrorism and piracy for many year . today , it be indispensable in contain the grow reach of the chinese Communist party , as other have say . Beijing be build port , airport and naval outpost right across the region ; its so - call " string of pearl " be design to encircle and dominate . if we be serious about stand up for the value that we hold dear — human right , democracy and , at its heart , freedom — Diego Garcia must remain secure and undisputed , which can be achieve only through the treaty that the Government have conclude . conservative colleague may huff and puff , as they have be do ad nauseam over the past few hour , but let we not rewrite history . as have be point out , it be not Labour that open negotiation with Mauritius . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I want to intervene on Opposition Members early , but be not allow to . it be the Conservatives who rightly describe the situation in 2022 as unsustainable , and it be they who hold 11 round of talk on sovereignty . in 2023 , when he be Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) say that he want to conclude a deal soon . at the time , when they be in government , Conservative Members recognise that the base ' s legal status be under serious threat , and that an interminable sovereignty dispute risk paralyse operation . let I make a quick point about international law . in reflect on the ICJ advisory opinion , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) say that it be an international court that few have hear of . those kind of reckless throwaway remark undermine the United Nations ' high judicial organ . she mention that we be a permanent member of the UN Security Council . there be judge sit in the ICJ who be elect by member of the General Assembly , and through the Security Council . although we have have judge sit in that international court since its inception , we have not since 2018 , which be a source of much shame for the country at large . I hope that she will take back those remark denigrate the international system of law that underpin our international work . let we not forget , after all , that in the 1940 , the United Kingdom be the first country to submit a case for arbitration by the ICJ . [ interruption . ] I ask those Opposition Members who be chuntere : where be you when those 11 round of negotiation take place ? I know that two year be a long time in politic , but have you already forget — Order . I wasn ' t anywhere , and I have forget nothing . will member please be careful about the language they use in the Chamber ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Labour have finish what the previous Government start — what be leave to we after former Prime Minister Liz Truss let the genie out of the bottle in start negotiation with Mauritius in 2022 . that be report , and much malign , by Matthew Parris in the Spectator at the time — let we not forget that . this Government have seek to strike a deal in Britain ' s good interest , give the legal mess that they inherit . let we be clear : this agreement secure the future of the Diego Garcia base . Britain retain control of the base , as the Minister confirm in response to my intervention near the start of the debate . there be a protective buffer zone , and no foreign security force will be on the outer island . there will be a robust mechanism to prevent interference , and for the first time , Mauritius have agree back the base ' s operation . that be a huge strategic win . what about cost ? let we get this clear , because some of the disinformation come from the conservative party be concern ; it be unnecessarily set hare run about the future of other british overseas territory , include the Falkland Islands and Gibraltar . the overall cost have not change from that negotiate with the former mauritian Prime Minister , and suggestion to the contrary be simply false . when set against the cost of inaction , the financial component be modest . it be far cheap than the spiral cost of legal uncertainty , and far cheap than the price we would pay if chinese expansionism go unchecked in the indian ocean . for a fraction of our defence budget , we will secure a cornerstone of global stability . let we not forget that the agreement will have an average annual cost that represent 0 . 008 % of total Government spend , accord to the Government Actuary ' s Department . early in his very carefully craft speech , the hon . Gentleman say that this deal protect freedom . one of the freedom that citizen of the british overseas territory to which he refer most appreciate be the freedom to determine their own future . why do he think that Chagossians should be make an exception and deny the right to determine their own future ? I be sure that the Minister will come to that in his closing remark . I have to concur with other member that the way the Chagossians be treat in the ' 60 and ' 70 be utterly shameful . I be proud that there will be right of return , and the ability to visit . conservative Members claim to be the champion of defence , but that be not bear out by the fact , which include an 18 % cut in defence spending in their first five year in government , and their shrink the Army to its small size since the napoleonic era . in how many year out of 14 be the target of 2 . 5 % of GDP spend on defence hit ? zero . they should not lecture Labour Members on national security . the Government ' s plan be straightforward , transparent and serious . we have the large increase in the defence budget since the cold war ; we be rebuild alliance that previous government wantonly vandalise ; we be act where there be dither ; we be govern in the national interest ; and , importantly , we be secure the long - term future of the Diego Garcia base . it be clear that a bind adverse judgment against the UK be inevitable . since 2015 , 28 international judge have express view on Chagos sovereignty . that be under the previous Government , and not one of those 28 judge back Britain ' s claim . without an agreement , our ability to operate the base would have be compromise . overflight clearance would have be at risk , contractor access would have be uncertain , communication would have degrade , cost would have soar , and investment would have fall . who would that benefit ? I put that to Conservative Members , but I will give they a clue : it be not Britain , and not Britain ' s ally . this deal secure Diego Garcia , cement our role in the Indo - Pacific , strengthen our ability to push back against chinese influence , and show that Britain be a dependable ally that take national security seriously . I wish to make a closing remark on the reason amendment by the Reform party , in the name of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) and for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , who seem not to be present . I will read out a part of it that I be gobsmacke nobody have pick up on in this debate : " because the reason for the UK - Mauritius Treaty and for bring forward this Bill follow a judgment from the International Criminal Court , from which the UK do not recognise judgment as binding , only advisory " , they will oppose this Bill . I want reform to answer : which case before the International Criminal Court be it refer to ? be reform suggest that , be it to come to power , it would not recognise the bind judgment of the International Criminal Court ? will it take we out of the ICC ? unfortunately , Reform member be not here to respond . the Conservatives open the door to this treaty . Labour inherit a legal mess , but it have deliver a deal in the long - term national interest . for a small cost , we have achieve a huge strategic win . that be why I be proud to support this Bill , and I will vote with the Government tonight . so many Labour Members seem to have forget that the reshuffle be a couple of day ago . they will have to wait another few month , possibly year , for their obsequiousness to be reward . may I suggest that we be in a somewhat through - the - look - glass world ? over the last few hour , we have hear very clear question from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who be no long in his place . he explain that we be hear a circular argument about legal intervention to which there be absolutely no response . all we hear from Government Members be chatgpt - generate press release — " I rise to speak " , " I rise to speak " , " I rise to speak " . ChatGPT know you be there . that be an americanism that we do not use . still , they should keep use it , because it make it clear that this place have become absurd . this building and this Chamber be a complete waste of time when our elector and fellow citizen hear that we have listen to the argument of Mauritius , China , India and the United States , but be not willing to listen to the argument of Britain . we be not willing to stand up for the interest of the british people , or to look at the strategic interest of UK defence . instead , all we hear consistently be that the Americans be for the deal . of course they be for it ; this be a territorial deal , and they have no interest in the territory . all they be interested in be the lease of the base . they be lease the base off we at the moment , and they will be lease the base off Mauritius via we into the future , so there be no change for they . of course , India be in favour of the deal . by the way , I respect the position of the Indian Government greatly , but do you know what ? I be not an Indian MP . I have a different perspective , because my job — and , I think , the job of Labour Members , but clearly I be wrong — be to stand up for the british people . instead , all I hear be that Labour Members be stand up for the interest of different foreign power . that be absolutely fine . they worship international treaty and stand up for so - call international law , but they conveniently forget — [ interruption . ] member should hear the end of the sentence . they forget that international law be conflictual , challenge and regularly , if not almost always , in direct confrontation with itself , because it highlight different interest . at different point , government champion different aspect of international law in order to seek different outcome . that be how it have grow up . it be the job of sovereign government to stand up for our interest . I think that be the job of our government , but it clearly be not the job of this Government . instead , this Government do something quite different ; the moment that they be challenge , they run away . Brave Sir Keir bravely turn his tail and flee . order . this debate have to be fair on both side . I will not have member refer to the Prime Minister by name . it could have be any Sir Keir — there be so many of they . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . this Government have decide that instead of fight for Britain ' s interest , all they will do be turn around and capitulate . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . the problem be that this case be not just about these island , or the issue we be debate today ; it be about the way in which government approach these debate . just in case we be in any doubt about the change nature of the use of law against we , it be worth look at the timeline of these event — which be completely coincidental . we know , because colleague have mention it , that in the 1960 a deal be do , a payment be make , Mauritius accept it and we move on . just after the Falklands war , a legal action be begin , use Mauritius and extend a claim . just after the Falklands war , the KGB start to fund the campaign for Nuclear Disarmament . by the way , it be not I say this — it be in the mitrokhin archive ; it be all public . just after the Falklands war , when the Soviets realise that they do not have the military power to defeat NATO , they start experiment with lawfare , and we have see they do it again and again . if member would like to read report on this issue , Policy Exchange very kindly publish a report by I in 2013 , and another one in 2015 — " Fog of Law " and " clear the Fog of Law " , for those who have trouble sleep . since then , we have see lawfare grow . we have see state use the power of lawyer against the interest of the british people time and again , and the trouble with the capitulation we be see today be that it be not just about Diego Garcia , these island or this interest ; it be about the question of whether or not this Government will stand up for the british people , and for our security and our interest . let I sketch out a hypothetical situation for you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be possible , although I hope it be not necessary , that british troop will be ask to do some peacekeeping in somewhere like Ukraine . it be possible that they will have to leave at a moment ' s notice with the equipment they have , without the ability to re - equip — simply to go with the good that they have . it be possible that country like Russia will object . we know , because we have see it happen in the late 1990 and all the way through the 2010 and 2020 , that the russian Government and other have encourage legal action against our armed force . to be honest , government have be poor on this issue since 1999 — Labour Governments initially , and then conservative government — so it be very welcome that Lord Cameron stop this , recognise that a different position could be take . sadly , this Bill reverse that position . it reverse the presumption that our Government , the British Government , will represent the legal interest of the british people and fight these case . instead , they will capitulate . the problem be that capitulation be what get we into this problem in the first place . we can look at the Bici case in Kosovo in the late 1990 , where we settle rather than fight , or at case in Iraq and Afghanistan , where we settle rather than debate — rather than go to court and seek a judgment . those case create precedent , and I be afraid that this Government be create another precedent . I know that the Minister will say that the government of the Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , and many other place have correctly say that this case have no connection to they . I be delighted that they have say so , and they be right , but they be sadly mistaken in think that that mean nobody will test that point . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? have the hon . Gentleman be in the Chamber at the beginning of the debate , he would have be welcome to contribute , but give that he have such a pass interest , I be sure he will not mind if I carry on . the reality be that it be not up to the person who be pursue by law as to whether they will be challenge ; it be up to the aggressor , and we know who the aggressor be . we know who have be use lawfare against we . we have see it time and again , and I be afraid that the effect of this Bill be to concede that point . I be fascinated that so many Government Members feel that they have no choice but to conclude the negotiation . admittedly it be begin mistakenly by a Conservative Administration and , yes , I do write to the then Prime Ministers — both of they — complain about it and point out the error of their way . I be a Minister , and I write about it and complain about it , as do Lord Murray of Blidworth — I think that be right . I be go to get his name wrong , forgive I — that be one for Hansard . we both write , because we both think it be wrong at the time . what can I say ? we leave office . the civil servant re - present the same offer and sadly , here we go again . the british people feel so disenchanted at the moment because we see change of Government and no change of policy . we simply see a continuation and the Whips ' briefing come out again . we simply see the pointlessness of democracy in this place , because we might as well not bother be here . the Foreign Office stitch this one up . the Minister can not even change the judgment , and he have sacrifice everything on the whim of an international process with no regard to the interest of the british people . I thank the Minister for his speech early , although he be no long in this place . we have hear clearly from those on the Opposition Benches that they be oppose to this deal , so it be first worth outline what sort of deal they be oppose to . they be oppose to a deal that secure our vital national interest on probably the most important base in the country ' s history in the indian ocean . they be oppose to a deal that be support by every one of our five Eyes close security partner . as we have hear from many of they , they be oppose to a deal that they spend 11 round negotiate over two year , and we have not quite hear from they why they start negotiate that deal in the first place . they spend 11 round negotiate it , but they have not yet tell we — the shadow Minister or otherwise — why they feel it be necessary and why they think this Government might have come to the same conclusion as they do at that time . I believe , as many of we do on the Government Benches , that that dangerous rhetoric put the security of our base in Diego Garcia at risk . it be play politic with our national security . I want to take we back in history for one moment to look at a similar situation . during the second world war , the UK establish another airfield in the indian ocean know as RAF Gan . RAF Gan be the southernmost island in the Maldives , and it be secure in 1942 by the Royal Navy , and then take over by the Air Force , to secure our operation all across the indian ocean into the far east , combat the japanese threat we be face there . it be such a successful base that the Japanese do not even discover its existence until close to the end of the war , once their expansion plan have end . later , in the cold war , it become a vital staging post for the UK and our ally to get our force across to Singapore and other basis in the far east . in fact , my father serve there in 1974 , and it be a great shame that two year later we close that base and hand it over to the Maldivian Government at the same time that we secure our base in Diego Garcia . I mention that case in particular because it be a vital strategic secure base of our in a similar situation to Diego Garcia . as soon as the Maldivian Government take possession of that base , the Russians begin to exert influence to try to take it over . they be attempt to take over the base that we occupy — that we spend decade develop — and turn it into a secure base for the Soviet Union . they be do exactly the same thing again on Diego Garcia . they be try to influence the Mauritian Government to claim the base for their own use . be this not the point that we have hear time and again from Government member ? this deal run out in 99 year , and at that point Mauritius can simply close the base or hand it on to the big offer . we get first right on it , but if the Chinese decide to invest hundred of billion , we may not be able to match that . we be over a barrel . in 100 year ' time , people will be in this place have this exact debate say , " how do we solve this problem ? " be the hon . member as concerned about that as I be ? I go back to the example of RAF Gan . the Maldivians refuse the Soviet Union back in 1976 , because the UK have a good reputation with they . we honour our agreement and respected international law , and they feel that it be inappropriate for they to be see to be support a country that have not do the same . in the case of Diego Garcia , this be a situation that have be negotiate for many year . the Conservatives recognise that there be a threat to our sovereignty , because they start the negotiation . as we have hear from my hon . friend , if we be unable to conclude a deal soon , there be a serious risk that our operation at the base would be thwart . it would not be in 99 or 140 year after the deal ; it would be in week or month . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will carry on for a moment , and then I will give way . despite the risk , the Conservatives have come out in opposition to this deal . the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) — the former Foreign Secretary , who be not in his place — have describe the deal as " weak , weak , weak " , but it be he who start the negotiation back in 2023 . he pledge that he would complete the deal in the same year , but he be unable to do so . maybe it be his negotiate tactic that be " weak , weak , weak " , rather than anything else . for all the Conservatives ' complain about this agreement , they have fail again to offer any insight into why they start the negotiation in the first place . the hon . Gentleman be right . question about why the negotiation start have be raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , give that the national interest be the primary concern of all responsible government and could easily be compromise by this deal , but will the hon . Gentleman deal with this point ? it have be make absolutely crystal clear in this debate that Lord Cameron , when he become Foreign Secretary , end those negotiation . Lord Cameron be a man of immense experience , who have probably negotiate at a level beyond anyone present in this Chamber . he would have certainly take legal advice within the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office before he close those negotiation . why do the hon . Gentleman think that Lord Cameron close they down , and why do he think that this Government reopen they ? we do not know why Lord Cameron close they down , because the Conservatives have not release any detail of the deal that they negotiate up to that point . maybe the cost be too high because they have not negotiate a well deal , or maybe thing like the 24 - mile security zone be not include in the deal , but this Government have secure a well deal . it be important for we to secure our national security . it be also worth point out that conservative government have not look after our national security over the last 14 year . I have serve , and I have see the damage that be cause by 14 year of under - investment and neglect of our armed force . our Army have be reduce to a size that have not be see since the time of Napoleon . service accommodation standard be scandalous , which our people do not deserve in the slight , and the Conservatives cut the defence budget so deep that Russia feel that we be too weak to stop an invasion in Europe . I be pleased to see that this Labour Government be invest again in our armed force and start to fix the damage of those 14 year . since we be talk about investment , let I touch on the investment value of this deal . Diego Garcia ' s location — far from major population centre — make it the ultimate secure base . it be a deepwater port in a key staging area in the indian ocean , and be vital for our submarine operation . it contain the long runway in the entire indian ocean , put our aircraft in reach of Africa , the middle east and east Asia . in order to continue the operation of such a base for 99 year , we be look at an average cost of £ 101 million a year . that be around 0 . 2 % of our defence budget — less than the cost of a single aircraft carrier . as we hear from my hon . friend , it be a well deal than the French have achieve in Djibouti for a base that be right next to the chinese operation , and have a total cost that be less than the amount of money that the last Government waste on faulty PPE during the pandemic . Diego Garcia be vital for our national security — I think everybody in this place agree with that . two year ago , the Conservatives also agree on the need for a deal . I be grateful to the hon . and gallant Member for give way . on the pricing , he say that Government Front Benchers be put it out that this be a good deal . would it still be a good deal if it be £ 35 billion or something like that ? as the hon . Member will know , the official Government statistic say the cost be £ 3 . 5 billion , which be about 0 . 2 % of our defence budget . I wonder what other asset in the entire world that may be worth 0 . 2 % of our defence budget be quite as effective and important as Diego Garcia . I will come to my conclusion . the last Government want a deal . they start negotiate a deal and conduct 11 round of negotiation on a deal . now , however , because they think that they can score some political point , they be choose to side with our adversary . I humbly suggest that if they really have the UK ' s national security in mind , they would agree with what the US State Department tell the Foreign Affairs Committee on our recent visit to Washington , and some of the Conservative Committee member be in that meeting . the US State Department tell we , " thank you for secure this deal , which we think be vital for both our nation ' security . " it be a privilege to speak in this debate , particularly follow some of the incredibly insightful speech , certainly on the Opposition side of the House . today be a hugely consequential day . the House be not be ask to debate in abstract , and neither be we consider ordinary legislation that can be repeal should its effect turn out to be unfavourable . we be be ask to endorse the permanent and irrevocable surrender of british sovereign territory . there be no way back from this , and I can not support such action . my opposition be share by member on this side of the House and , I suspect , by more Labour Members than may be prepare to say so publicly . we have hear the point before , but it bear repeat : the British Indian Ocean Territory be of immense military , security and geopolitical importance , and this Bill will give it away forever . it do so at a time of heighten instability and threat around the world . it do not take an expert on defence or foreign affair to know that this be a terrible decision . it be one that put virtue signal before the national interest , play into the hand of our enemy and ultimately put this country and our citizen at risk , which be unforgiveable of any Government . if what we be present with today be indeed to be the final settlement of the issue , it be a settlement that satisfy neither the strategic nor the political doubt that have be raise . my first concern be the implication of this handover for our defence and security . for decade , Diego Garcia have play a critical role in the collective security of the United Kingdom , the United States and our broad network of ally in the region . the base serve as a launchpad to defeat our enemy , to prevent threat to our nation and to protect our economic security . it directly contribute to Britain ' s strength at home and abroad . in practice , the facility , know as Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia , fulfil multiple essential military role . it support approximately 15 key military task , include logistic , communication and intelligence gathering . the base act as a prepositioning hub , host vessel carry armoured vehicle , munition , fuel and even mobile field hospital for rapid deployment to wherever they be need . it be equip with a deep - water port capable of dock nuclear submarine and naval vessel , as well as runway accommodate strategic bomber , aerial refuelling operation and pre - launch operation across the indian ocean . Diego Garcia remain indispensable , but we be now be ask to jeopardise it . in truth , Parliament have be show nothing of real substance that address the concern that have be raise by Conservative Members . this House be be ask to vote blindfold on the future of one of our most strategically important overseas territory . this matter because , despite what Ministers seem to have convince themselves to be true , the Republic of Mauritius be far from be a passive actor in the geopolitic of the region . Mauritius have repeatedly align itself with state hostile to our own strategic interest . it vote against the UK in the UN General Assembly and the International Court of Justice over the future of the Chagos island in the first place . it maintain close diplomatic and economic tie with China , and China ' s use of slave labour and expansionist agenda against Taiwan be well document . More to the point , Mauritius have sign up to the global security initiative propose by Beijing , which have be describe by many regional expert as China ' s attempt to displace US - lead security partnership . these concern have repeatedly be brush aside by Ministers keen to remind we that Mauritius be in fact an ally of New Delhi , not Beijing . the critical point here be that national security and the national interest be inseparable . both depend on the sovereignty of this nation and the primacy of this Parliament , so although international treaty and agreement matter , of course , they can never matter more than that primacy . we can not subcontract the national interest to an overseas place that in year to come might want to defend that interest , or might not , in exactly the way that my hon . friend be describe . as always , my right hon . friend make his point well , and I completely agree . the reality be that Mauritius be not a reliable or neutral guarantor of our security interest , and it be staggeringly naive for Ministers to suggest otherwise . to put it plainly , if the transfer proceed , there can be no guarantee that our interest will be protect . as have already be raise multiple time , what will happen in 99 year be of significant concern . on top of all that , we be not just give away one of the centrepiece of our global security posture , but pay extortionately for the privilege . hard - work taxpayer — my constituent — will be leave foot the bill for the next 99 year , pay £ 35 billion or perhaps £ 47 billion for the lease that the Government have agree . in Britian , we have face cruel cut , harmful tax rise and economic gloom under this government . by contrast , the Mauritian Government have now begin celebrate their shrink national debt and announce a series of plan tax cut , all as a result of the billion that we will send they . country have lose war and go on to be offer treaty with more generous term than this one , yet those on the Government Front Bench come to this House and call the deal a triumph . the UK will be weak and poor as a result , and it be shameful that the Government have bring such a damaging , insulting and senseless document to this House . by move forward with this , the Government be fail in their first duty to ensure the safety and security of our citizen and nation . this day will go down in the history book as the day that the United Kingdom be diminish by dangerous fool . Diego Garcia be not just another military facility ; it be the cornerstone of Britain ' s national security and our most important contribution to the UK - US security relationship . from track terrorist network to ensure freedom of navigation and global trade , the base have save life and safeguard our people . let we be clear , however , that the reason we be here today be the failure of the Conservative Government on defence and foreign policy . for year , they dither , delay and mismanage . they gamble with a capability that no other site on earth can replicate and with our security . some 85 % of the negotiation that deliver the treaty take place under the Conservatives . the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , then Foreign Secretary , launch the process and the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , now the Leader of the Opposition , sit at the Cabinet table , receive the same security briefing and never raise objection — not in Parliament , in write question or on social medium . they know then , as we know now , that without a treaty Diego Garcia be at risk of be make inoperable . they know the danger of hostile power exploit the vacuum and of our ability to berth submarine and patrol the region be fatally compromise . today , however , the opposition have be unable to answer the basic question of why they start the negotiation . they try to present the argument that they stop the negotiation , yet in April 2024 Lord Cameron write to the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) to say that " the future administration of the island " be " subject to ongoing bilateral negotiation " . shortly follow that , there be a general election . in opposition , those same people posture against a deal that they once champion . they offer no alternative — no plan , no strategy ; just opportunism . they play politic with the safety of the british people . that be not leadership ; it be pure hypocrisy . by contrast , the Labour Government have deliver a treaty that secure 99 year of guarantee access , with the option of extend it for another 40 year . we have secure rock - solid safeguard : full UK control over the base , command of the electromagnetic spectrum , a 24 - nautical - mile buffer zone to protect operation and a ban on any foreign military presence in the wide archipelago . crucially , the treaty be back by our ally . the United States welcome it , with President Trump call it a " very long term , powerful lease " . our five Eyes partner , as well as India , all back it , because they recognise what the Conservatives once admit but now deny : it be irreplaceable . we must also address the position take by Reform UK , whose member have all vacate the Chamber for the debate that they proclaim to be so important . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and his colleague loudly claim that the United States would reject the agreement , and they tell the british people that President Trump would oppose it outright , but they be embarrassingly wrong . the United States have welcome the deal and President Trump have say that it be " very strong " and " very long term " . once again , Reform UK misread our close ally and talk Britain down . parade as patriot , their instinct be to undermine alliance and weaken the very partnership that keep this country safe . let we be clear that , when put in context , the cost be modest and represent less than 0 . 2 % of the annual defence budget . to put they into great context , the cost of the whole deal be less than the cost of the unused PPE in the first year of covid under the Tory Government . the conservative party have 14 year in Government to get this right , but it instead waste billion of pound on defence mismanagement while leave the future of our most critical base to hang by a thread . this Labour Government have secure it for a century , protect our people , support the chagossian community and strengthen Britain ' s alliance . to oppose the Bill be to abandon the base , and to abandon the base be to abandon Britain ' s security . I will not do that . I urge all member to support the Bill and to put the safety of the british people above the short - term game of a divided Opposition and the reckless posturing of Reform UK . at the start of this Parliament , I could not have imagine that we would be ask to consider a Bill that be so uniquely detrimental to our national security , the british taxpayer , the british chagossian people and the environment . not only be we cede sovereignty of a critical overseas territory , but we be pay a huge financial cost for the privilege of do so . we have hear much today about the cost of this deal — a cost that the Government claim be £ 3 . 4 billion over 99 year , but in reality it be many time great . this deal be unique : it will leave the UK strategically weak in one of the most contested region of the world , which be likely to shape the future direction of geopolitic , at a time when the world be more volatile than ever , with 2024 see the great number of conflict around the globe since the second world war . allow I to start with the finance of the deal . it take a freedom of information request for this government to level with the british people that this deal would in fact cost £ 35 billion , with some analysis even suggest it could be as much as £ 47 billion . it would have be far well for the Government to have come clean over the true cost of the Chagos deal , rather than try accountancy trick to pull the wool over our eye . I would like to put into context the sheer scale of £ 35 billion of taxpayer ' money : it could be use to pay for 10 Queen Elizabeth - class aircraft carrier ; it be over half the annual school budget ; it be the estimate cost of the entire Hinckley Point C nuclear reactor project ; it would pay for 70 hospital , or a 5 % cut on income tax — the list could go on and on . we know this anyway , but it be worth reiterate that when the Prime Minister negotiate , Britain lose . the hard - work people of Chester South and Eddisbury deserve a well return for the tax they pay , and they ought not to have to watch as this Government sign away british sovereign territory . add to that , the omission from the Bill of a money authorisation clause , remove Parliament ' s ability to vote on send billion of pound to Mauritius , be completely wrong . that lead I to the strategic implication of the Bill . the Diego Garcia base be one of seven permanent point of presence within the Indo - Pacific region . owe to its position in the middle of the indian ocean and proximity to shipping lane , it be vital for our national security and regional influence . it be a key base from which our armed force can protect we from hostile state and non - state actor and activity . from a security standpoint , it be deeply concern that we be lose sovereignty over this base and the influence that we could exert from it . accord to the treaty , the UK be compel to notify the Mauritian Government on certain aspect of military activity in and around the base . this do not make we safe . think back to early this year when our american ally conduct strike against Iran . what if the UK be to support our ally in such action ? this deal would require , as we have hear , for we to expeditiously inform the Mauritian Government of our action . I appreciate that the Minister have clarify that no advanced notification be require , although one might ask why we should have to inform Mauritius at all , expeditiously or not . perhaps the Minister can clarify whether the provision under annex 1 , paragraph 2 also extend to special force operation , and , if so , what guarantee there would be that highly sensitive security information would not end up in the hand of our adversary . China , Iran and Russia have all welcome the deal . as the shadow Minister highlight , the chinese ambassador to Mauritius congratulate the Government of Mauritius and the Deputy Prime Minister in a press conference follow the deal ' s announcement , thank China for its support throughout the process . China do not do geopolitical favour , so its support should cause the Government to pause and reflect . Iran have also welcome the deal and we know that it be forge close tie with Russia , so perhaps in his closing remark the Minister can share with the House how minister have somehow come to a different conclusion and deduce instead that all three of those geopolitical threat be oppose to the deal . but it be not just the huge financial cost or the significant security implication of the deal that be deeply concern , but that it have ignore the voice of british Chagossians . in June this year , I meet people from the chagossian community who come to Parliament to speak with mps . their message be very clear : they feel let down by a lack of transparency and consultation , and be deeply uncertain about their future . it be not surprising that they feel ignore and betray , give that the former Foreign Secretary meet they only once — once — on a deal that be so significant for they . the Government must put that right and take the opportunity to implement a recommendation put forward by the House of Lords International Relations and Defence Committee and International Agreements Committee , outline in the report that look at the treaty . they urge the Government to " Enhance Chagossian engagement by establish a formal consultation mechanism with the chagossian community to monitor the Agreement ' s implementation and ensure their meaningful inclusion in decision - making . " will the Minister confirm whether that recommendation have be implement ? the deal provide british Chagossians with no guarantee right of return to their homeland . I therefore ask the Minister to state clearly whether the Government have negotiate an agreement in which british Chagossians ' right to visit the Chagos island be leave entirely in the hand of Mauritius , and whether it be feasible that they may be refuse the right to return or even visit . that would be wholly unacceptable . far , the Chagos trust fund , establish as part of the UK - Mauritius treaty and finance by the UK , be to be distribute solely under the control of Mauritius , yet the Bill contain no provision to monitor whether the right of british Chagossians be uphold or to create any statutory oversight of the trust fund . have Ministers secure from the Government of Mauritius any firm commitment that british Chagossians will have a formal role in the oversight and decision making regard the fund ? indeed , why be a model of joint governance not agree , ensure that british Chagossians themselves have a voice in how the fund be govern and can benefit directly from it ? add to all this , the deal currently risk leave a pristine marine environment unprotecte . the water around the Chagos island be home to 220 specie of coral , 855 specie of fish and 355 specie of mollusc . these water have be fully protect since 2010 by the UK Government . although it be welcome that there be a commitment to continue with a marine protect area , we do not know what level of support Mauritius will put into the MPA . indeed , there be real concern that the Mauritian Government do not have the capability to monitor , enforce and protect these water , with no assurance that there will be no fishing and trawl in they . from the eye - water cost to the grave security risk , the betrayal of british Chagossians and the environmental damage this treaty risk unleash , this be a uniquely bad deal . it ask we to pay more , risk more and gain nothing in return . for the sake of our national interest and our duty to the chagossian people , I can not support this Bill . I rise today not to upset a Speaker or Deputy Speaker — let we see how this go , Madam Deputy Speaker . let we succeed . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be proud to speak in favour of the Bill . I do so as a proud former member of our armed force , have devote 24 year of my life in uniform to the safety and security of this nation , particularly in intelligence gathering , where UNCLOS be a tool of the trade . that experience shape my view of the Bill . I find it rich to hear lecture on national security or faux patriotism from the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , whose party spend 14 year hollow out our armed force . the Bill exemplify the forward - look , effective and patriotic approach that this Government have take to our security and our place in the world . it be a major achievement to be implement an agreement that will ensure that our base on Diego Garcia can operate securely in conjunction with our ally — notably the US — until at least 2124 . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? not yet . allied naval , aviation and communication asset will be able to protect UK interest across a vast area of the western indian ocean and beyond throughout the next century , no matter the change , turmoil or insecurity that the come decade may bring . the agreement provide the UK and our ally with the freedom of action necessary to guarantee the security of the base . this be detail in a great many way by the treaty , but I will highlight just three . first , we will have joint control over the electromagnetic spectrum communication and electronic system . secondly , we will have joint control over whether any security force — military or civilian — will be permit , except for our own and those of the United States and Mauritius . finally , we will have joint control over any land development and any construction of sensor , structure or installation at sea . these be very broad and flexible right ; they apply not just to Diego Garcia , the 12 - mile boundary within which territorial sovereignty extend or the 24 - mile boundary surround it , but to the entire Chagos archipelago of 247 , 000 square mile . what the opposition have miss be that it be not what UNCLOS preclude but what it allow that be the threat . when it come to the activity of third party , control will be joint between the UK and Mauritius . this joint control will give we the ability to veto decision if , after engage fully with our mauritian partner through the joint commission , we be ultimately unsatisfied about the security risk in a way that we can not now . within 12 mile of Diego Garcia , our control will be unrestricted , not joint ; the same will apply to our right , and those of US force , to access Diego Garcia by air and sea . this will deliver the control that our armed force need to keep the base secure over the decade to come . in achieve the agreement , we have bolster our relationship with key ally and partner , include India , as I will come to later , but first and foremost with the United States . it be a shame that the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) have leave the Chamber , because I have some question for he . we need to be clear about the game that opposition party have be play over this issue . reform and the Conservatives have attempt to undermine this agreement at every stage , damage UK interest and try to drive a wedge between the UK and our ally . we see the same approach from the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in his anti - uk pr campaign on Capitol Hill last week , and I note that I can see none of the Reform party present . as I have tell this House from personal and professional experience , the United States military and its ally value write agreement and long - term guarantee . our ally rely on the same kind of lease agreement to underwrite their own basis , so they see that this model can stand the test of time despite huge geopolitical shift , and all of we can see that too . the right hon . member for Tonbridge say that we should save the base for our unilateral action , but he do not once explain how we would pay for operate and maintain a base unilaterally . instead of recognise the benefit of these negotiation , as a way to bolster our cross - atlantic alliance and increase the value of our contribution to Indo - Pacific security , the Conservatives have repeatedly try to undermine the process that they themselves start . thankfully , they have fail . our international partner have welcome this agreement , and it now fall to we to ensure that the necessary change be make in law so that the treaty can come into force and we do not let down our ally . by far the strong international advocate for this treaty be India . India be , as we know , an utterly indispensable partner in ensure that the region remain free and open for navigation and UK trade . India be already a geopolitical force to be reckon with , and her power and importance as a balancer prevent chinese domination will only grow over the decade to come . the continuation of the UK and US force on Diego Garcia , while resolve the question of sovereignty , align our strategic interest more strongly with India ' s and help to counter anti - UK rhetoric from the like of Russia , which can still have influence by play on the legacy of the anti - colonial struggle . the Conservatives concede that by start negotiation about sovereignty . I have ask they all repeatedly about that , and not one of you — order . you be so close to succeed . let we try to get the language right . I do not receive a single response from any of they , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have mention colonial history , which be go to get some conservative Members very excited and make they want to use patriotic - sound rhetoric about the concept of sovereignty , which , as I have just explain , they do not themselves understand . I will take the issue head on . the simple fact be that despite its name , the British Indian Ocean Territory have never be british in the way that Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands be . it have never have a resident population who be british and say with one voice that they want to remain so . perhaps the Chagos islander could have have such a population if history have go differently , but they be rob of that opportunity when the territory be create . I welcome the apology from the Minister early , and I be grateful to hear my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) speak so powerfully about this matter . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response shortly . sadly , we can not turn back the clock . what we can do be what we be do : give the Chagos islander a pathway to permanent citizenship and integration here if they choose it , while support resettlement option within the agreement reach with Mauritius . the absurdity of make a big song and dance about sovereignty be reflect in one simple fact . as the explanatory note to the Bill point out , the UK have always commit to return the island to mauritian sovereignty when they be " no long need for defence purpose . " that be part and parcel of the decision make when the British Indian Ocean Territory be create . all that be happen through the treaty and the Bill be the creation of a more secure and durable solution that safeguard those defence purpose ; and we be make good on our promise that the UK ' s sovereignty would be continue only temporarily , not forever . when the flag of the British Indian Ocean Territory — the flag of a tarnished endeavour — be lower on Diego Garcia , the Union flag will be raise in its place : the flag of a modern , forward - look nation of which Government Members be proud . by pass the Bill , we will not only address the grow vulnerability of a vital military asset , but entrench our alliance and our position in the Indo - Pacific , further Britain ' s interest across the world . I be pleased to be able to say something in the debate . the point make about the history of this really need to be amplify a bit more . it be a disgraceful deal , do in 1965 by the then Labour Government , that create BIOT and lead we on the pathway to expel the Chagos islander from both Diego Garcia and the wide archipelago . that be do when Mauritius be still a british colony , and the US be put on a lot of pressure to get a base to fuel the Vietnam war . that be the context in which the deal be do . the treatment of the Chagos islander , which have be write about extensively by some brilliant writer , be unbelievably brutal . they be drag out of their home , put on boat , and send to either Seychelles or Mauritius with no right , no acknowledgment and no real support whatsoever . they live for a long time in poverty in both those place . former Members of the House who have sadly pass on do quite a lot to try to support they . the late Tam Dalyell , former MP for Linlithgow , go to Mauritius to meet Len Williams , the new governor - general at the time , and ask why people be sleep on the street of Port Louis . he be tell , and from that point , he take up the cause of the Chagos islander , because he think they have be disgracefully treat . the late Robin Cook also take the matter up , both at the time and much later , when he become Foreign Secretary . we should pay tribute to they for what they try to do . the reality be that it be the Chagos islander themselves who manage to get some decency and recognition . Olivier Bancoult , who have become a great friend of mine , first write to I in , I think , 1988 . it be a beautiful handwritten letter , say , " Dear Mr Corbyn , could you do anything to help the Chagos islander ? " we keep in touch . indeed , I have meet he many time since , include recently at the launch of his book . the Chagos Refugees Group be found , and it operate from Olivier Bancoult ' s house . it make demand on the Mauritian Government , demand on the British Government and enormous demand on somebody who later become the british high commissioner to Mauritius , namely David Snoxell . he and Olivier Bancoult do not always get along . the latter ' s pressure on David Snoxell be enormous ; he once go to the extent of lock he in his office until they have a proper meeting . [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 902 . ] ( correction ) Olivier Bancoult be a feisty guy , and the group be feisty people . we should recognise that the group ' s determination bring about compensation and a litany of court case all over the country and the world . I have be to many of the hearing ; I have hear argument make in the decolonisation committee and at the UN Human Rights Council , and at a whole series of court process in Britain to try to get compensation and recognition of the right of the Chagos islander . today , we be deal with the consequence of the unbelievable heroism of the chagossian people , who have be seek recognition and justice . I regret that there be now difference within the chagossian community . Tam Dalyell and I strongly support the move to get a right to british nationality for Chagos islander , and to amend the relevant nationality Act . that be eventually achieve , and that be how , I be pleased to say , they now have unfettere access to this country . I be also pleased that the treaty continue to include that unfettered access . I hope that the Minister , when he come to reply , can explain what discussion he have have with all the element of the chagossian community . the last thing we want to see be division in a community that have suffer so much , and deserve so much decency and recognition . if the Chagos island in their entirety be not pass over to Mauritius and mauritian sovereignty , there be two consequence . first , there will be even great dishonesty than we think there be in 1975 , and secondly , Britain will be in breach of an ICJ judgment . if that be what people want — if that be what Conservative and Reform Members want — so be it , but they would be act illegally by hang on to the island . BIOT will go , and there will be mauritian sovereignty over the whole area . I support the principle behind the marine protection zone , although I do not support the no - take element that be include at the beginning . I want Chagos islander to be able to return to the archipelago , and to undertake sustainable fishing and so on . I be assure that the Mauritian Government support and recognise the need to preserve the pristine beauty of the ocean around there . I be less convinced that the military and the United States force be equally committed to the preservation of the natural world and the environment . the record be not good — not perfect . I hope that the Minister , when he come to reply , can assure we that there will be proper inspection , not just of the outer island , but of the sea and the land of Diego Garcia . it be wrong that the islander be remove . it be right that they have an opportunity to return , which be what they have always campaign for . I find it unfortunate beyond belief that they will only be allow to visit Diego Garcia . imagine if we could only visit the home where our parent live , or the grave where many of our relative have be bury . there be an emotional relationship there that will be break by the refusal of the right of abode in future . I understand from previous discussion with the Minister and other that there could be a possibility of the return of a right of abode . I be not sure ; maybe he can reply to that . be I happy about there be a huge military base on Diego Garcia ? no . be I happy about the rhetoric that have be use in this debate , which seem to be crank up the idea of yet another cold war , when we should be look for a world of peace , rather than one of war ? I find that depressing , and not really fit for this debate . there be a right of people who live under colonisation to achieve their independence . that be achieve by Mauritius , but it be thwart in 1965 . by agree now to return all the island and the archipelago to Mauritius , we be complete a process that should have take place in 1965 , prior to Mauritius ' s independence in 1968 . have that happen , and have there be no separation and creation of BIOT in 1965 , we would not be have this debate today , because the issue would simply not have arise . may I say how much of an honour it be to follow the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) ? although we do not necessarily agree on a lot of policy , I be always strike by the fact that he put people at the heart of his speech . that have never be the case more than during his long campaign on this issue , on which he speak eloquently . he be put Chagossians right at the heart of any decision making . he deserve a lot of acclaim for that . he be right to call out some of the rhetoric in this debate , because , at the end of the day , those people really matter . I thank he for put his point on the record . there be three broad area that I would like to cover : sovereignty , cost and some of the scary part of the Bill . I listen to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , and I must admit that I be not nearly as learn or experience as he ; I bow to his legal analysis . I be a mere doctor , so I look for an evidence base when try to understand the process . to that end , I think it would be useful to write to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , which I duly do . I receive a letter on 28 July 2025 from the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who I see will kindly respond , and be sit in his place . much to my surprise and pleasure , a lot of what be in the letter be in the Minister ' s speech . this debate allow I to walk through some of the letter and pose the question that hit I as I look into this case . I must admit that when I step into this House in 2019 , this be not a topic that I know a huge deal about — I think many member on both side would say the same — but it very quickly become a topic that I realise we should look into understanding , especially as it deal with security . the letter state : " we have to act now because the base be under threat . " that imply urgency , but the letter be loose on who be under threat , where and how . there be legal uncertainty but , as we have hear , we do not know which court be involve or why . it go on to say : " the court have already make decision which undermine our position . " court , plural . we know that the ICJ be involve , but as have be state , its opinion be non - binding , and there be a carve - out relate to the Commonwealth . the Minister of State , Ministry of Defence , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , say , after be push to speak on the matter multiple time , that the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea be the area of concern , but he will know that back in 2015 , under annex VII , the tribunal agree with the UK that sovereignty could not be determine by UNCLOS . this be a marine protection issue . briton be try to protect the area , and Mauritius want to open it up to farm it , and we be find against , under that treaty , in that court . this raise an important side issue : what protection be there in the Bill for the environment ? they seem scant , or just not there . the letter go far , state that " in 2021 … a Special Chamber of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea … rule that Mauritius ' sovereignty be infer from ICJ " . so the Government themselves point that out . the letter go on to say : " the UK be not party to this case " . well , obviously , it would not be , but that mean that we have not have our day in court to explain why we do not think that the judgment should apply . Mauritius ' sovereignty be infer from that non - binding , political judgment . the letter go on : " if Mauritius be to take we to court again , the UK ' s longstanding legal view be that we would not have a realistic prospect of successfully defend its legal position on sovereignty in such litigation . " well , which court ? if this advice be so long - stand , why do we not know about it ? how have we get this far , go for year upon year with no agreement , without any urgency ? it seem sensible and appropriate to release the advice on this . at the start of that quote , the letter say " if Mauritius " . it state later that it be " highly likely that far wide - range litigation would be bring quickly by Mauritius against the UK . " what evidence do the Government have to back that up ? what be it that they say Mauritius will act so quickly on ? we certainly have not see it , if it be from 2021 . the date 2023 and 2024 have be mention , and we be now in 2025 . I would be interested to see the Government release the evidence base for their claim about how quickly litigation would come forward , because as they rightly point out , there have be 11 round of negotiation , so there have clearly be time to sort thing out . before someone jump in and say , " well , you open the negotiation " , I would point out that we do that for the Falkland Islands as well . I find it amazing that we have trade unionist who build their whole career on negotiate suddenly chastise the conservative for listen to the other side of a disagreement . that seem bizarre to I , because we want to respect each other and exchange idea , but not have an agreement . it be rightly point out by Conservative Members that the agreement be not there ; we do not take it . on the cost of the deal , there be no cost , because we do not have a deal to sign off . the very next sentence in the letter say : " this might , for example , include further arbitral proceeding against the UK under Annex VII of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea . a judgment from such a tribunal would be legally bind on the UK . " it be not . it be . it be true about the legally bind aspect within the area that the tribunal cover , but that do not cover sovereignty , as we learn in 2015 when the tribunal side with the british Government . here we have the farcical situation of a House of policy and law shine light on one side and another , but never on the truth . this be where my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam be exactly right . if the Government be to come forward and say exactly which court , where and why , they might get more sympathy from Opposition , but we have be through an entire five - hour debate and we still do not have answer to those question . another court that be often cite be the International Telecommunication Union cover spectre , radio and radar . article 48 . 1 state " Member States retain their entire freedom with regard to military radio installation , " and the Government know that . even the write answer from the Minister — it have be hint at before — state : " individual country have the sovereign right to manage and use the radio spectrum , within their border , the way they wish , subject to not cause interference with other country . this right be recognise in the Radio Regulations . the Radio Regulations be the international framework for the use of spectrum by radiocommunication service , define and manage by the International Telecommunications Union ( ITU ) . individual country , not the ITU , make their own sovereign spectrum assignment in accordance with the Radio Regulations . the ITU have no legal authority over these assignment regardless of the country ' s civilian or military classification of spectrum . the ITU can not challenge the UK ' s use of civilian or military spectrum . " it be clear here — the Government know it in their own answer — that the ITU have no role in sovereignty . it all boil down to where one believe british overseas territory stand . now we must talk about the cost , which have be much debate . there have be three figure in the debate : £ 3 . 4 billion , £ 10 billion and £ 34 billion . the £ 3 . 4 billion be the net present value use social time preference rate . the £ 10 billion be inflation adjust , and the £ 34 billion be the nominal value by the Government Actuary ' s Department . the question be , why use net present value ? I put it early in the debate that there be no other precedent in the world for NPV be use in sovereignty matter . the Minister at the time ask whether the Conservatives want to do away with use NPV — of course not . it be in the Green Book . absolutely , the Minister say it be within the Green Book . absolutely not , because it have a perfect place in domestic use for commercial practicality , not for international sovereignty issue . no other country have look , or would look , at this because it do not make sense . the House of Commons Library say when ask that " this methodology be regularly use in government accounting , but its main use be for cost - benefit analysis . it be unusual to see it use in this situation like this , where only the cost be be assess and it be not be compare to any benefit " . on that basis , and listen to the House of Commons Library , what cost - benefit analysis have actually be do in this case , and would it be put in front of the House so we might be able to see it ? at the end of the day , NPV be highly political because it assume a discount rate , and what be the discount rate that one should choose ? in the detail , it talk about 3 . 5 % , but the US will use 3 . 5 % or 7 % , which would vastly differentiate the figure . it go on far , for the social time preference rate be 3 . 5 % , but for 30 year . this deal be for 99 year , so how can the Government respond in a write parliamentary question that this " represent good value for UK taxpayer " ? on what basis be they compare that if there be no international comparison ? we be talk only about domestic use and for an accounting point . as I come to my conclusion , possibly the scary thing to I — I have try to highlight it throughout the debate — which do seem to be fall on deaf ear , be article 13 . I believe this treaty be legally bomb - proof . it look sensible , and I be no legal expert as I have attest to , but it seem to stand the test of time . that mean when article 13 say explicitly that in 99 year Mauritius can say no and just take control , that be a big worry . we have hear from many Government mp how it secure the long - term aspiration of this country for a period of 99 year . when I mention that , several Government mp scoff . but be it not the duty of this House to provide not only for the next generation , but the rest of time for our country , in the good interest of our country ? after listen to all the argument that have be make about how essential the base be , the very fact that Mauritius could pull the base be a very scary prospect . there be , of course , a caveat : the right of first refusal . but if China decide to do a deal with Mauritius at exorbitant cost , we be over a barrel and the british taxpayer must fork out yet again to guarantee our security . Mauritius have be give a golden ticket , and it know it . beyond the sovereignty and cost , my big concern be that we be outsource decision - making for our child and our child ' s child . that be the modus operandi of this government — we need only look at the borrowing in the Budget to see how they borrow on the back of future child . push this decision out for 99 year be not security for now ; it will help , but it create a far big problem in 100 year ' time . if the Government want to give away our island , they should be open and transparent about how and why . the big thing be that we have not even have our day in court . that be what most trouble the british public . I think that the british public would be reasonable if a court find against we — they would happily say , " we follow the rule of law " — but the Government will not even try that . they say that there be a risk . as have be say , this have be go on for year , and still we be look at a treaty to sign it off . that inevitably pose final question about what happen with Gibraltar , the Falklands and Cyprus . the Minister be correct to point out that there be difference , but the big fundamental problem that the Government have in argue to the british people and the people of the Falklands be about understanding . if this House can not understand the legal concept of the place where we be likely to fight these cause , how can we expect the public to do so ? when it come to deliver comms to the UK public , that be what they need to understand . there have be some fantastic speech from Opposition Members stand up for british interest , so I will not go on at length , but I wish to make a few point . this surrender Bill be madness . the Government have decide , against the security and financial interest of the United Kingdom , to surrender territory to which there be no claim to a country that have no historical or cultural connection to it . they be do so because , in the word of the Prime Minister , " if Mauritius take we to court again , the UK ' s long - stand legal view be that we would not have a realistic prospect of success . " let we be clear : there be no legal or moral obligation to surrender the Chagos island to Mauritius . Labour be the bad negotiator , spend ten of billion of pound of taxpayer ' money to surrender the Chagos island , bung billion to its unionised paymaster on day one of form a government , and show a lack of will on tackle welfare dependency . whatever Labour touch , the cost to the taxpayer go up and the benefit diminish . this spectacularly bad deal will leave Britain less secure while british taxpayer stump up ten of billion of pound for tax cut in a foreign country — equivalent to 4 % of the mauritian budget and to £ 50 million for every constituency represent in this House . the staggering £ 35 billion cost be 10 time more than be originally claim because of the Government ' s creative accounting — even the UK Statistics Authority do not endorse the figure . it be arrive at by apply an assumed annual inflation rate of 2 . 3 % over the 99 - year lease period , despite inflation run at almost 4 % . the total be then lower again by between 2 . 5 % and 3 . 5 % per year through a Treasury practice call the social time preference rate , which reflect the fact that people value benefit receive immediately more highly . it convert future cost and benefit into their present - day value rather than allow for a more accurate valuation of future cost . the Government be happy to apply that rate in the case of their surrender deal , but will not use the same methodology to cost their affordable home programme . what be bad be that the Government have refuse to allow Parliament a separate vote on the financial obligation under this terrible deal — they could have do , but choose not to . that £ 35 billion could have be spend on new hospital or school or , in the case of my constituency , on infrastructure to support the thousand of new house that the Government want to build . it could have be spend on tax cut to stimulate the economy or even to plug labour ' s own financial black hole . Labour be cut tax for Mauritians off the back of hard - press UK taxpayer . then we get to the national security risk . Diego Garcia , locate on the Chagos island , be the UK ' s most important military base in the indian ocean . the geopolitical significance of the base can not be overstate in a world in which China seek to undermine we . we know that China think in a multigenerational capacity . it be a dictatorship that do not share our value , and this be the blink of an eye in term of how it plan its future . China have make no secret of its intent to deepen its relationship with Mauritius . it be an increasingly hostile state towards the UK , and it know too well that Mauritius be key to support its long - term strategic goal . furthermore , Mauritius have signal that it be work more closely with Russia on research and development , and with Iran on develop close relation . Mauritius have go on public record state that it be grateful to the Chinese for play a critical role in its pursuit of international recognition of mauritian sovereignty over these island . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . while the Government and the Prime Minister be try to paint this as a good deal , they know that Beijing , Moscow and Tehran have watch closely and have all take note . finally , it be not just this country ' s taxpayer who recognise that this be a bad deal . Lord West of Spithead , former First Sea Lord , Chief of the Naval Staff , and Labour Security Minister , say that cede the Chagos island to Mauritius would be " irresponsible " , risk our strategic interest , and undermine the fundamental principle of international law . why do the Government prioritise any interest other than Britain ' s , and foreign sovereignty over that of the UK ? the Bill will leave Britain poorer , weak and expose . it be a betrayal not just of UK interest but also of british Chagossians , and it do not deserve a second reading . order . I now call Lewis Cocking for the final Back - Bench contribution . colleague who have contribute to the debate should be make their way back to the Chamber . there be no two way about it : this be a surrender Bill with no benefit to my Broxbourne constituent . minister have shamefully attempt to hide the shocking cost of this deal from the british people and the public at large . when the new Labour Government take office , they keep tell we in this Chamber about the pretend £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . if the black hole of £ 22 billion that we be continually tell about by the Government do exist , I could solve it overnight — don ' t do this deal . this deal be £ 35 billion to the Mauritian Government . the Labour Government go after british family farm with the family farm tax . they go after our pensioner and take their winter fuel allowance away , and they increase national insurance contribution for business , to make it more expensive for they to employ people , but they could just not do this deal . they talk in fiction , and this be an absolute disgrace . how will Mauritius spend this money ? by cut taxis for its own citizen and pay their debt . be the Minister proud that the only income tax cut that this Labour Government will deliver be 6 , 000 mile away at the expense of the british taxpayer ? the last time I check , this be the British Parliament and we be suppose to stand up for british interest , not the interest of foreign country or foreign citizen . we should be cut taxis here and turbocharge the economy , not give stuff away that we already own . we already have a base , and now we be go to lease it back , as we have hear from a number of colleague . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not give way . there have be lot of intervention , and I be feed up with the same intervention come from the same Labour Members . quite frankly it do not help the debate — just because they say something several time do not make it true . the Bill be cost we financially , but it also have security risk . China support the deal and be welcome Mauritius into its sphere of influence with open arm . Mauritius be strengthen relation with Iran and Russia . as a Policy Exchange report note , it be impossible to assert with certainty how much influence China will have over Mauritius in the next five or 10 year , let alone for the 99 - year duration of this lease . we already have british sovereign territory with a base , so I can not understand why we have do that negotiation , and why we be hurt the british people with tax rise . as I say , we be be cruel to old people by take away their winter fuel allowance , go after farmer with the family farm tax , and go after british business with the increase to national insurance contribution , yet we can find money out of nowhere — £ 35 billion — to give to Mauritius . in summary , I gently say to the Government that people out there know that . when we knock on door , as I be sure we all do across our constituency , people will say to we , " hang on a minute . how come we be be punish ? how come we have to pay more taxis , but you soon find money when it suit you ? " that be why the british public have fall out of love with this Government already . hopefully the Government will wake up and start represent the people who they be elect to represent in this Chamber : the british public , not foreign government such as that of Mauritius . I call the shadow Minister . today ' s Second reading be not only important , but historically significant — sadly , for all the wrong reason . we be debate a Bill that will leave Britain less secure , undermine our strategic interest and leave british taxpayer out of pocket . the decision by this Labour Government to surrender sovereignty over the Chagos island to Mauritius and to pay billion of pound for the privilege , with no check or balance , be nothing short of a national humiliation . it be a deal that weaken Britain at home and abroad , and one that the official opposition will oppose every step of the way . on the point that the right hon . Lady make about the allege surrender of sovereignty , which have be make consistently by Conservative Members , do she accept that on 29 April 2024 , just week before the election , the former Prime Minister — the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , under whom they all stand for election only a year or so ago — and the Mauritian Prime Minister discuss negotiation on the " exercise of sovereignty " and instruct their team , no less , to " continue to work at pace " ? I remind the hon . member of two thing . first , talk and signing be two very different thing . secondly , some of we on the Conservative Benches remember that no deal be well than a bad deal . the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) have omit some of the quote , because he be prove wrong before . he have fail to say that the former Prime Minister say " mutually beneficial " . some of the gain that come out of that discussion be the fact that it be not mutually beneficial for this country , and we stop the negotiation . my hon . friend make a very valid point . if Labour Members have spend a little more time actually listen to some of the contribution from Conservative Members , they would perhaps understand thing a little more . I will come back to that point shortly . before I turn to the substance , I wish to pay tribute to colleague on the conservative Benches who have speak powerfully about the sheer folly of this deal . they have rightly highlight its staggering cost , the accounting method use , the reckless security implication , the lack of transparency and the way in which it sadly sideline the chagossian community . there have be a number of contribution , but I very briefly pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , the former Attorney General . he have not just demonstrate his extensive legal knowledge and expertise in this area , but question the legal uncertainty that minister be rely on . he have take the time to explain and to remind this place of the issue relate to article 298 of UNCLOS , which be very relevant to today ' s debate . he highlight some key unanswered question . quite frankly , I urge every Member of this House to have a read of Hansard before they go into the voting Lobby this evening . similarly , my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) highlight and reinforce the important point about article 298 of UNCLOS . my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) remind Labour Members of the red line put in place by Lord Cameron , who stop negotiation — it quite clearly seem that they need to be remind that talk and signing be two very different thing . my right hon . friend the Members for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) talk about strategic issue and the cost of the deal . there be valuable contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) and for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . one thing that be very obvious be that we need clarity . to give just one example , the Government claim that we may have problem with spectrum if we do not agree a deal , but other part of the Government have indicate that the International Telecommunication Union have no power to veto the use of military spectrum . [ interruption . ] government member do not want to intervene now . these be not pass political point ; they be hard truth about the danger that this deal pose to Britain ' s security and standing . before I move on , though , I wish to pay tribute to the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) for his wise and brave word today , and for stand firm as a constituency MP and stand up for member of his community . turn to the Liberal Democrats , I have to say that I struggle a little to understand their position . they say that they oppose the Bill , but they do not vote against the treaty in the House of Lords — in fact , they choose to prop up Labour , rather than defend Britain and the right of the british Chagossians . will the right hon . Lady take an intervention ? of course I will . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for allow I to clarify . as she well know , their lordship in the House of Lords invite the Government to provide a statement on the right of the Chagossians , and the Government agree that they would not ratify the treaty until such a statement have be lay before both Houses , allow for a debate in both . as I make clear in my speech , I look forward to that opportunity , and I very much hope that the Minister will confirm when that statement will be lay before this House . I be grateful for that intervention — let we wait and see whether the Minister do confirm that date . however , the fact of the matter remain that the Liberal Democrats do not vote against the treaty . turn to cost and taxpayer , the financial cost of the deal alone should be a cause of shame for this Government . thank to conservative FOI request , we now know that the true bill for this surrender be not £ 3 . 4 billion , as minister have claim , but close to £ 35 billion — a sum that be 10 time high than originally admit , and one that will fall squarely on the shoulder of british taxpayer . let we be clear what those billion will fund . they will not fund well school or hospital here at home , or defence capability to protect our citizen ; they will fund tax cut in Mauritius . at the very moment when this Labour Government be hike taxis on family farm , education and business , they be content to bankroll over 4 % of another nation ' s budget . to Conservative Members , that be indefensible . however , the risk to Britain ' s security be even great . Diego Garcia be our most strategic and important base in the indian ocean , critical to our partnership with the United States and vital to our ability to project influence in the Indo - Pacific , yet this Bill leave huge question unanswered . what guarantee be there that the UK can extend the lease over Diego Garcia unilaterally when the Mauritian Prime Minister have say otherwise ? what safeguard will prevent hostile power such as China , Russia or Iran from seek a foothold in the archipelago once Britain step back ? we know that Beijing already describe Mauritius as a partner with " strategic advantage " , while Port Louis boast of advance co - operation with Moscow . do the Minister really believe that this make Britain more secure ? we also can not ignore the issue of nuclear deterrence . Mauritius be a signatory to the Pelindaba treaty , which prohibit the stationing and storage of nuclear weapon , yet minister have fail to explain what that will mean in practice once sovereignty be transfer . will it constrain our close ally , the United States ? will it put limit on what we can do on Diego Garcia in future ? these be not trivial question , because they go to the heart of our security posture in the Indo - Pacific , yet we still have no clear answer . even Lord West , a former Labour Security Minister , have warn that cede the Chagos island be " irresponsible " and dangerous , yet this Government press on regardless , blind to the risk and deaf to the warning . let we not forget the Chagossians themselves . for year , Labour politician claim a fundamental moral responsibility towards this community , but in government they have abandon they , offer only token consultation and deny they a real say in decision that affect their homeland . once again they be be sideline . this be about the Chagossians and their future , and that of future generation . we be tell that million will be channel into a so - call trust for the chagossian people , but under this deal Britain will have no meaningful role in determine how those fund be use . decision will sit entirely with Mauritius , with no mechanism for proper oversight by Parliament and no guarantee that the Chagossians themselves will see the benefit . there be no accountability to they , no accountability to we , and no accountability for how british money be spend . there be many question about the fund , not least what guarantee and safeguard exist to ensure that it reach all the Chagossians , give that so many of their community be spread around the world . time and again , Ministers have refuse to come clean with Parliament about the term of this deal . we have have contradictory account from the Mauritians and from whitehall , confusion about the sum involve and secrecy so deep that even official be ask to leave the room during negotiation . if Ministers can not be open with Parliament , they have no business ask Parliament to support this Bill . before I conclude , I will touch briefly on the other overseas territory . let I be clear : we be debate and discuss the Chagos island , and at no stage have those on this Front Bench ever conflate surrender the sovereignty of the Chagos island with that of the other overseas territory . it be clear that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . that be the story of this deal . this be not a settlement force on we by law . the Government have choose to hide behind advisory opinion , rather than to stand firm , defend our sovereignty and protect our national interest . it be simply the behaviour of this unpatriotic Labour Government . we on the Opposition Benches could not be clear : Britain should not surrender the Chagos island and we will fight this Bill every step of the way . I will conclude , but I have hope that the new Foreign Secretary would be here today . where be she ? she have choose to be elsewhere , rather than answer to the chagossian people . I will end with a plea to the Minister , for whom I have the high personal respect . we have often be in opposite position across the Dispatch Box , but I ask he please to step back , pause and reflect . Britain do not need to surrender the Chagos island . do the right thing by our country , by our taxpayer and by the chagossian people . stand firm and keep the Chagos island british . what a debate . I genuinely think there be some thoughtful contribution from all part of the House , but some be simply rhetoric and , frankly , a lot of nonsense . I single out the Chair of the Defence Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) . although I disagree with he , I think he make passionate point of conviction on behalf of his constituent . there be also thoughtful contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) , for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) , for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) and for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) . on the other side there be particularly thoughtful contribution — which I might not have agree with — from the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who be a former Attorney General , and the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . there be a thoughtful contribution from the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , until he get on to the overseas territory at the end . I be pleased to hear that commitment from my opposite number , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , although she may want to check the Conservative Twitter feed for what it be put out about the overseas territory , which I think be deeply shameful and damaging . I want to be clear about the purpose of this Bill and the decision we have take , which be about defend this country and our national security . that be the first duty of this Government . it be the first priority of our Prime Minister , our Foreign Secretary , our Defence Secretary and the entire ministerial team . I be afraid that whatever exhortation to the contrary we hear from the Opposition Benches , we will not take risk with our national security or engage in gamble in court or anywhere else . that be not the action of a responsible government , and we be not prepared to take those risk . that be why this Bill will ensure that we ratify the treaty with Mauritius , resolve the legal status of this vital base and , crucially , protect its operation , which be the most fundamental aspect of what we be discuss today . it will ensure that we retain the critical security capability that support key operation around the world . those be capability not only for ourselves , but for our ally . fundamentally , those capability keep the people of this country safe on our street , they keep our armed force safe , and they keep our ally safe . we will not scrimp on national security or take gamble with it , which be essentially the argument that we have hear from the opposition today . I will start with the reason amendment , because it be full of so many hole and so many wrong , include claim about the cost . it say that the treaty " do not secure the base on Diego Garcia " . that be wrong . it say that we do not have the " right to extend " the lease . that be wrong . it say that " the measure in the Treaty leave the base vulnerable " . that be wrong . it say that the treaty do not " protect the right of the chagossian people " . that be wrong . and it say that the treaty do not protect " the future of the Marine Protected Area " . that be wrong . I urge the House to reject the reason amendment today . this all come back to a fundamental question : if there be not a problem , why do the previous Government start negotiate ? why do they continue negotiate until just week before the general election ? it be simply not correct to claim that the negotiation be stop . we have hear what the official readout of the meeting with the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , say and it be very , very clear : he instruct the team to act at pace in order to make the agreement . the evidence be there , and claim to the contrary be simply wrong . a number of important point have be make today , but I will start with those about operation , because some very sensible question have be raise . it be the operation of the base that be currently under threat from the legal uncertainty . that be why we have take step to secure it , and why our ally and five Eyes partner — the United States and other — back this deal . in the future , those operation will now be secure . the Bill ensure that we can exercise all right and authority grant through the treaty . we will retain full operational control over Diego Garcia , which we have continue to have for the last 50 year — the Bill secure that . I want to reiterate our commitment to expeditiously inform Mauritius of military action . let I repeat for the record : we be not oblige to give Mauritius advance notice of any action under the treaty . no sensitive intelligence will be share , nor operation put at risk — it be there on the face of the treaty . our ally , especially the United States under two administration , have go through it with a fine - toothed comb . they would not be support this deal and sign off on it if that operational autonomy be not protect . I turn to member ' point about the law . many reasonable question have be raise , and we have hear some historical revisionism at different point . the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) express worry about lawfare , but we have act precisely because of the threat of action that could impede the operation in the short , medium and , indeed , long term . it be totally wrong to say that Mauritius have no claim ; decade ago , we agree that sovereignty would ultimately revert to Mauritius . the Government ' s legal case have be publish — it be there for all to see on the day of treaty signature . in summary , Mauritius would have secure a bind judgment that would have harm the operation of the base . that have be the consistent position of the Government . we have set it out on a number of occasion , and our position be that the UK would not have a realistic prospect of successfully defend its legal position on sovereignty in such litigation . the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who be a former Attorney General , and other have reflect on a number of issue . I will not go into all of they but , for the record , let I refer to the comprehensive rejection of our argument by 13 judge to one at the ICJ in 2019 ; the loss in the UN General Assembly vote by a margin of 116 to six ; the maritime delimitation judgment that be bind on Mauritius and the Maldives , which be hand down in 2021 by the special chamber of ITLOS ; the obligation place on the BIOT Administration by UN body to cease specific activity ; and a series of complication and blockage at international organisation , include the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organisation . we have also set out where future risk be likely to take place , and we be not willing to gamble with that . those be the fundamental fact here , and that be why it be necessary to do this deal . question be raise about the extension . it be very clear that we have the right of first refusal , and that we might extend the lease for a further 40 year . will the Minister give way ? I will happily give way to the former Attorney General . the point I make in my contribution be that I rely entirely on what Ministers have say to this place about the Government ' s legal justification for their action . that chain start with the former Foreign Secretary say that , in the Government ' s view , a bind legal judgment be inevitable . the Minister have just give we a list of a variety of opinion and clear opposition — it be true — to the UK ' s position from a variety of different organisation . as far as I can tell , he have not tell we from which court a bind judgment might come . we have say that it can not be the ICJ . which court could give a bind judgment against the UK in this matter ? first , the right hon . and learn Gentleman know that I be not go to disclose the full privileged legal advice to the Government , which the previous Government receive , for very good reason . we have set out very clearly that provisional measure could be bring forward that would immediately affect operation — within six to eight week — and the condition in chapter 7 of ITLOS . in a number of area , there be very significant risk . I will not , and he understand why I will not , go into the detail of that , but it be simply not a risk that this Government be willing to take or , as he know , that the previous Government be willing to take , which be ultimately why they start the negotiation . I be conscious of the time , and I have explain the extension , but I want to talk a little about our ally and opponent . the shadow Foreign Secretary say that people have not say publicly what they feel about the deal , but that be not the case . we have hear from President Trump and US Defence Secretary Hegseth . US Secretary of State Rubio say : " the u . s . welcome the historic agreement between the UK and Mauritius on the future of the Chagos Archipelago . this agreement secure the long - term , stable , and effective operation of the joint u . s . - UK military facility at Diego Garcia , which be critical to regional and global security . " our five Eyes ally support it , with Canada ' s Foreign Ministry say that it welcome the signing , and australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong say that Australia welcome the signing , while Australia ' s ambassador to the US say that it be great to see a resolution to this important issue . New Zealand ' s Foreign Minister and India ' s Ministry of External Affairs have say the same . Japan have commend the effort of the government to reach agreement , and the Republic of Korea similarly welcome its signing . in addition , the Chief Minister of Gibraltar and other have welcome the deal . it be , therefore , clear that the Government be on the side of the United States , our five Eyes partner and other ally around the world , and we be protect our operation and national security . give the US bipartisan support , what be not good enough for the opposition ? our key security partner back the deal , and that be why they have agree to it . quite frankly , we have hear some outrageous claim about the cost . we have be very clear about they , and the £ 34 billion figure be absurdly misleading and inaccurate . it ignore inflation and the change value of money over 99 year — £ 1 today will not be worth the same in 99 year ' time — and the £ 101 million annual average cost compare favourably with other country ' basis . our accurate figure reflect how the Government account for long - term project spend . funnily enough , when we add a sum each year , which be entirely reasonable , over a 99 - year period , it add up to a large sum . this be equivalent to the spending on the NHS for a few hour , and a tiny proportion of our defence budget . it compare very favourably with what France have pay for its base in Djibouti . this base be 15 time large , while France ' s base be next to a chinese facility , and our have unique security provision in place . quite frankly , it show some brass neck for the Opposition to be make claim about defence and security when they preside over the hollowing out of our armed force , appal accommodation and decline . that be change under this Government . we be spend on our national defence , our NATO commitment and our security relationship with the United States , and we will absolutely not apologise for that or scrimp on our national security . one final point be that a financial element be always key to the deal , as the Conservatives concede in their engagement under multiple Prime Ministers . important point be make about the environment and the marine protect area . fundamentally , Mauritius will determine the area ' s future , but Prime Minister Ramgoolam recently reaffirm to the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , his country ' s commitment to protect that unique ecosystem . we be engage in active discussion with the Mauritians about that , and I will keep right hon . and hon . member update . I conclude as the Minister of State , Ministry of Defence , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) start , by pay tribute to the Chagossians who have join we here today . both in opposition and in government , I have repeatedly meet a range of chagossian community with a range of view , and I have a deep respect for their dignity and their different view . there will be people who fundamentally disagree with this treaty , but there be many who fundamentally agree with it , as we have hear in this debate . the Government deeply regret how Chagossians be remove from the island . we have hear concern about the impact on they and their ability to access british nationality . the Bill will ensure that Chagossians have no adverse effect on their nationality right — no Chagossians will lose their exist right to hold or claim british citizenship . it will be for Mauritius to set the term of and manage any future resettlement . reasonable question have be ask about why people can not resettle on Diego Garcia , but it be an active military base with security restriction so that be not realistic , but we will restart the heritage visit . rise — to anticipate what the liberal Democrat spokesperson might be about to ask I , I confirm to he that before ratification , there will be a ministerial statement . I will not give he the exact date , because I do not set the date of business , but it will provide a factual update on resettlement eligibility and how the trust fund will work . I be engage actively in those discussion , and that will enable further discussion in a proper manner . will the Minister please confirm , as Lord Collins do in the other place , that time will be set aside in both Houses for a debate on the statement ? absolutely . I confirm that we be happy to discuss that far . such decision be not for I , but for the usual channel and the leader in both Houses . however , I want to confirm the commitment that be make previously . this come down to one fundamental question : why do the opposition start the negotiation if there be not a problem ? why do they continue the negotiation until just week before the general election ? it be because fundamental national security interest and the protection of the british people be at risk . this Government recognise that , our ally recognise that and we have act to secure a deal to protect Diego Garcia and its operation well into the next century . while Reform and the Conservatives speak of national security but fail to do anything to secure it , this Labour Government negotiate and deliver . we deliver deal — with the United States , with India , with the European Union and on new frigate — and , fundamentally , we deliver national security by secure this base on Diego Garcia . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Nesil Caliskan Imogen Walker the House divide : Ayes 116 , Noes 333 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Nesil Caliskan Imogen Walker Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 179 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . business without Debate Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation with the leave of the House , we will take motion 3 and 4 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Markets in Financial Instruments ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 July , be approve . that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( Capital Buffers and Macro - prudential Measures ) ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Modernisation Committee Ordered , that — ( a ) Lucy Powell be discharge from the Modernisation Committee and Sir Alan Campbell be add ; and ( b ) Sir Alan Campbell shall be the Chair of the Committee . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) Petition - Developments near Lutterworth and its Surrounding Villages I rise to present a petition from 241 resident of South Leicestershire who share my concern about the threat of gross overdevelopment in Lutterworth and its surround village . I declare from the outset , as a proud constituency - base MP , that I live in the affected area . the petition highlight proposal such as the propose Tarmac quarry near Misterton , which be not in the county council ' s mineral plan ; plan for large - scale warehousing at Lutterworth East and Gibbet Hill , which be not in Harborough district council ' s local plan ; a propose giant battery storage site between Lutterworth and South Kilworth ; and the reduction of affordable housing in Lutterworth East . a minimum of 40 % the housing be to have be affordable , but that be now change to a minimum of just 10 % . that will deprive hundred of family of much - need affordable home . those proposal threaten the character of our historic Lutterworth market town and our wonderful Leicestershire village . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of South Leicestershire : declare that current proposal such as Tarmac ' s propose sand and gravel quarry near Misterton , which be not an allocate site in Leicestershire County Council ' s mineral extraction plan , large - scale warehouse development at Lutterworth East and near Gibbet Hill , which be not compliant with Harborough District Council ' s Local Plan , and the propose giant battery storage and electrical substation between Lutterworth and South Kilworth , which raise health , safety , and noise concern , and the reduction of affordable housing at Lutterworth East from a promise minimum of 40 % to a minimum of 10 % , deny family access to affordable home , threaten the character of our historic market town and village . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to intervene if necessary to ensure that relevant county and local planning policy be apply in respect of Tarmac ' s propose sand and gravel quarry near Misterton , the warehouse development at Lutterworth East and near Gibbet Hill Roundabout , and the propose giant battery storage and electrical substation between Lutterworth and South Kilworth , and to the proportion of affordable housing in new development . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003109 ] accessibility of Railway Stations : Dulwich and West Norwood Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to bring before the House the significant issue that affect my constituent across Dulwich and West Norwood because of the lack of accessibility at our local railway station . the Dulwich and West Norwood constituency cover part of Lambeth and part of Southwark . unlike much of the north of those borough , we be poorly serve by the London underground network ; there be only Brixton tube station , just inside a corner of my constituency . instead , my constituent rely on rail and bus to get to central and outer London , as well as for more local journey . we have many station — 10 to be precise , with an 11th just outside the boundary . the station in my constituency be Brixton , East Dulwich , Gipsy Hill , Herne Hill , Loughborough Junction , North Dulwich , Sydenham Hill , Tulse Hill , West Dulwich and West Norwood . only three — Herne Hill , East Dulwich and West Norwood — be accessible , and only Herne Hill meet up - to - date standard of accessibility and have lift to all platform . the ramp at East Dulwich station be too steep , and West Norwood ticket office be not step - free , although the platform be accessible from the street . the lack of step - free access at our local railway station cause major problem for many of my constituent . Wheelchair user be effectively lock out of rail travel entirely at inaccessible station . parent and carer for small child may or may not manage to carry or drag their buggy up and down flight of stair at their station . even if they can , it be neither safe nor comfortable . Frail and elderly passenger be confront with impossibly difficult climb ; there be really long flight of stair at several station . Loughborough Junction and West Dulwich in particular have long , steep flight of stair that can be difficult and daunt for many passenger . the lack of accessibility at our local station be counter to two of the Government ' s strategic objective . inaccessible station be a significant barrier to work for many physically disabled people , who can not easily access employment in the wide London economy because they can not get to work from Dulwich and West Norwood . far , many people will not make the modal shift from private car to public transport , as the Government want they to , while our station remain inhospitable and inaccessible because the only way to access the platform be via a steep flight of stair . during every round of Access for all funding since I be first elect more than a decade ago , I have press for station in my constituency to be grant funding to increase the number of step - free station , but the previous Government fail to prioritise investment in my constituency . Herne Hill be upgrade with the installation of lift under the Access for all programme in 2013 . that be more than a decade with no further advancement in the accessibility of local rail travel . I welcome and support my hon . friend ' s campaign . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for wheelchair user , I campaign a lot on these issue . transport for London have an excellent app that show which station be wheelchair accessible and which have lift access , and I believe we should introduce that nationally . we should also introduce a campaign for accessible toilet , as well as for lift and wheelchair access . would my hon . friend welcome expand the app nationally , as it be currently available only in London ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and for all his work on this important set of issue . he be absolutely right to say that full accessibility be about more than simply level access , and also that information about accessibility at different rail station be vital to whether traveller will be able to travel , particularly if they be visit somewhere outside their home area . I support his campaign for well information . rise — I call Mr Jim Shannon to speak on the accessibility of railway station in the Dulwich and West Norwood constituency . the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) be right to bring this topic forward ; I speak to she beforehand . I believe that the Government need to provide what she be try to achieve for her constituency in every constituency , as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group , the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) , clearly outline . there be something wrong when rail staff can not be in place to help with accessibility without people have to ring 24 hour ahead . do the hon . Lady far agree that this have to form part of our rail obligation , wherever that may be in the United Kingdom ? what be right for her constituent in Dulwich and West Norwood be right for everywhere else , include my constituency . do she agree that the Government must focus on a strategy that give equality to those who be disabled in our community ? I be honour to be intervene on in an Adjournment debate by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and I thank he for his intervention . he be right that adequate staffing at railway station be a really important part of make station accessible . all too often , disabled passenger have to endure unacceptably long wait when there be a failure in communication . the railway operate company need to continue to improve their service so that not only the station but rail travel itself be fully accessible and disabled passenger can get the support to which they be entitle . all our station should be accessible , and it be therefore important that the Government work to increase the funding available and make change to the criterion for Access for all funding . currently , the Access for all programme prioritise station with high level of footfall and the availability of third - party funding — usually through local development — as well as proximity to a hospital or major interchange and non - specific rail industry priority . the majority of the 10 station in my constituency be busy but would not rank among the high footfall location in the country . they do not have significant development site in close proximity or other third - party source of funding available . they be not next to a hospital and we can not account for non - specific rail industry priority . my hon . friend mention station in her constituency , and I would like to mention Bescot Stadium station in my constituency . do she agree that if a station be inaccessible , the figure that be quote for its footfall will be much low ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that the figure can not account for passenger who can not access a station , and I welcome her campaign for the station in her constituency . this be a national issue . the high number of station in Dulwich and West Norwood make it an acute issue in my constituency , but this be a problem everywhere . when I have inquire about how good to make the case for station in my constituency , I be tell to make representation to the Government and through the Access for all process . I have do so , but there be no process outside of public pressure and political lobbying prior to Access for all application be submit to support local community with a more strategic approach . we need an approach that enable we to join up community view and aspiration with transport feasibility work to understand how to prioritise in a realistic way which of our station be most likely to secure funding because of their footfall . if one of my hon . friend ' s constituent in Dulwich or West Norwood be to get a train to my constituency in Longton — there be a tenuous connection — they would also find that station to be entirely inaccessible . unlike her case , funding be allocate to Longton train station through the transform city fund , but the local authority then decide to reallocate that funding to block pave outside one of the town hall for public realm improvement . perhaps when she be successful in get the funding that her station deserve , she will support a campaign to ringfence that funding and protect it so that it can not be siphon off for other local project that often do not support the accessibility for which the funding be design . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I will come on to some of the point about the well co - ordination need to solve some of these problem . we need an approach that enable we to join thing up to understand which of our station be most likely to secure funding because of their footfall , because they link up with particular bus route or because they be relatively low cost and therefore easy to deliver . the process , as it stand , be not transparent , and there be no support available for community to prepare for it . as an example , I have be approach by resident in Dulwich in recent week who would like my support in move forward a proposal for step - free access at North Dulwich station . a feasibility study would be helpful so we can all understand where lift could be instal and the broad cost of do so . but Southwark council have no land interest in North Dulwich station , and there be no major development site in the local area . at a time when local authority funding be constrain , it would be helpful to have the Minister ' s advice on how to move such a proposal forward . another example of the urgent need for more join - up preparatory support be Loughborough Junction station , currently be support by a local community campaign call " lift up Loughborough junction " . a tiny station occupy just half a railway arch , Loughborough Junction have a particularly long , steep flight of stair up to its two platform . it have see an increase in passenger use compare with pre - covid level , likely as a consequence of new nearby housing development . through that development , some funding have be allocate towards improvement at the station , but there be at present no mechanism to decide how that be to be spend or to deliver the improvement . deliver step - free access at Loughborough Junction station be complicated . it can not be do within the current station ' s curtilage due to insufficient space , so the station would need to expand either into adjacent arch or on to a site to the rear of the current station . the ownership of those site be complex , with the Arch Company responsible for neighbouring arch , Network Rail responsible for the structural integrity of the arch , the train operate company Southern responsible for the station , and private land ownership to the rear . if we be to solve the problem of accessibility at the station , there must be a way of join up those interest , undertake feasibility work , create partnership that can bid for funding together and move the project forward . as residential development in the area continue to expand , a station that already feel unsafe at peak time due to the large number of passenger will become more and more dangerously overcrowded , and disabled resident , family with young child , and frail and elderly people will continue to be lock out of rail travel . in 2018 , the then Government ' s inclusive transport strategy set out the aim of achieve equal access to the rail network by 2030 . that be just a few year away , and we be very far away from realise that goal . in the meantime , Government policy have continue , quite rightly , to seek to deliver continued modal shift from private car to public transport where possible , but modal shift do not happen by encouragement alone . it require meaningful level of Government investment to make public transport an accessible , convenient and attractive option , and accessibility be the basic minimum requirement . the Government can encourage people all they like , but if they be literally lock out of use public transport , it will not make a difference for resident with disability , parent who need to travel with young child , the less mobile and the elderly . I secure this debate to seek help from my hon . friend the Minister . be he consider the criterion for future round of Access for all funding so that area such as mine , with many inaccessible station , will not continue to be overlook by that funding stream because we do not have the high level of footfall , major transport interchange or nearby development site . what representation be he make to the Chancellor in relation to the Budget about the overall quantum of access for all funding , so that future round of the scheme can start to deliver the step change in railway station accessibility that be need across the whole country ? be he underline to the Chancellor that access for all funding should be part of the strategy to support disabled people who want to work to get to work ? will the Minister consider a well approach to pre - bidding support for Access for all , on a locality basis , to help local community and council to understand how good to prioritise their station for Access for all bid , and to create strong local partnership in which multiple agency need to be involve ? may I ask for his support in relation specifically to the complex situation at Loughborough Junction station , and to the need for a feasibility study for North Dulwich station and feasibility work at Gipsy Hill station , which require accessibility work to one platform only ? finally , can he tell disabled people in Dulwich and West Norwood , and across the country , when they can expect the equal access to the rail network that be their right ? this be a very important debate . Minister , you may wish to take this opportunity to reflect on the accessibility funding application of Wadhurst station in my constituency of Sussex Weald . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I have make a note of that particular station and will be speak to the Rail Minister about it as a priority , as I be sure member will understand . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) on secure the debate . she be right to raise the important topic of accessibility at station in her constituency . I assure she and all member of this House that the Government understand the enormous emotional , social and economic benefit that accessible transport deliver not just for the 16 million disabled people in the UK , but for family , community and our economy as a whole . a railway that work for everyone be not a luxury , but a necessity . whether someone be use a wheelchair or have a visual impairment , or be push a pram , carry heavy luggage or recover from injury , their need matter . that be why the Access for all programme be such a vital part of our strategy for improve accessibility . since its launch in 2006 , that programme have make tangible improvement to accessibility at station across the country , and I be pleased to report that progress continue . to date , we have deliver step - free access at over 260 station across Great Britain . that mean properly instal lift , ramp , tactile paving , improve signage and wayfinde change that make a real difference to the everyday life of passenger . in addition to those major upgrade , we have complete over 1 , 500 small - scale improvement , which include everything from accessible ticket machine and well lighting to handrail and help point . those might seem like small thing , but for someone with limited mobility or visual impairment , they can make all the difference between a journey that be possible and one that previously have not be . although I be pleased with that progress , it be not just about number ; it be also about impact . behind every accessible station there be a person who can now get to work , visit friend and family , attend school or simply enjoy a day out without rely on other or face barrier that other do not even have to think about . however , we know that this work be not finish ; we know that we must go far and that the pace of change be not always fast enough . early this year Network Rail complete feasibility work on 50 station identify as strong candidate for future access for all investment . those station be choose carefully , base on criterion that reflect demand , need and opportunity for improvement . my hon . friend raise the issue of criterion . as she mention , station be nominate by the industry in consultation with local authority and other , include TFL , to ensure that the funding benefit as many passenger as possible . station be then assess by annual footfall , and weight by the incidence of disability in the area , use census datum . local factor , include , as she say , whether a station be near a hospital , the availability of third - party funding and the deliverability of the station , be also consider . additionally , we aim to ensure a fair geographical spread of project across the country . I would be happy to facilitate a sit - down meeting with the Rail Minister , so that my hon . friend can discuss the issue in her constituency , and the opportunity for future round of access for all funding . while the Minister have his diary out , I wonder whether he could facilitate a similar meeting for I with the Rail Minister regard Longton train station . I particularly enjoy offer meeting to my colleague , and I be sure that the Rail Minister will have hear that request . we will soon be announce which of those 50 station will move into the next design phase . that be a sign of our ongoing commitment to make the railway more accessible , more inclusive and more modern . accessibility be , rightly , a " golden thread " embed in everything the Department do , and that extend to how we design , build and maintain our railway . every time we install , renew or upgrade station infrastructure , whether that be a new platform , a concourse , a footbridge or a ticketing system , those work must meet modern accessibility standard . infrastructure manager , station operator and service provider be legally require to ensure that those facility comply with accessibility requirement , as lay out in the relevant legislation and guidance . where those obligation be not meet , enforcement action can be take by the Office of Rail and Road , the independent regulator . that approach be absolutely right , because although progress be encouraging , it must be sustain and consistent . accessibility standard across the rail network can not depend on geography or luck . whether someone live in a city centre or a rural town , and whether their station be a major interchange or a small local stop , the right to access the railway should be universal . that do not stop at station , of course ; it include improvement to roll stock , include audio and visual announcement , priority seating , wheelchair space and on - board assistance . it also include training staff to help change culture and to provide appropriate support to disabled passenger , and not just in term of procedure but also with empathy , understanding and respect . I would like to touch on the Government ' s wide commitment to deliver an accessibility charter , recognise the importance of consistency across all mode of transport . the charter will bring together in one place the guide principle that underpin the right and responsibility of disabled passenger , regulator , enforcement body and operator . research suggest that disabled people be less confident travel across mode than non - disabled people . we be determined , work together with stakeholder , to change that . we want to empower disabled people to travel easily , confidently and with dignity for their entire journey . a truly accessible transport system can not rely on a single mode be accessible ; it must be focus on the entire journey . that be why later this year we will be set out our plan to improve accessible travel across all mode , as part of our integrated national transport strategy . although we have make progress , we know that for too many people travel on our public transport system and our railway be still not as easy or reliable as it should be . a broken lift , an unexpected platform change or a lack of staff support can turn what should be a straightforward journey into an ordeal . for some , the barrier remain so great that they do not even try . I want to make it clear that that be not acceptable . that be why the Department for Transport will continue to seek every opportunity — through target investment , improved infrastructure , policy reform , and partnership with industry and community — to improve access across the network . whether it be through the Access for all programme , major station redevelopment or ongoing commitment to accessibility compliance , we will not stop push for railway that be fully inclusive . I would be grateful if the Minister could say how disabled people be count in the footfall count . perhaps I could come back to my right hon . friend on that — I will consult the Rail Minister and ensure that I get she an accurate answer . our vision be clear : a railway that work for everyone ; a railway where no one be leave wait on the platform ; a railway where opportunity , independence and mobility be not privilege , but right . question put and agree to . House adjourn .