my hon . friend be absolutely right about the challenge right across our SEND system — a system that the Secretary of State herself have describe as " lose , lose , lose . " school leader know that this be a disaster , yet early this month the Department update we all on the work of the workload reduction taskforce . it be not the work of teacher , the taskforce clarifie , to investigate a pupil ' s absence . teacher may do it — it be vital work that need do — but it also depend on our amazing support staff . labour ' s plan to tackle the attendance crisis start with our small child . it include a childcare system modernise from the end of parental leave to the end of primary school , high - quality early education , a focus on life chance for child — not just on work choice for parent — and high and rise standard right from the start , with early language intervention to identify and remove barrier to learn , and a determination to reform the SEND system , to put money behind child , not lawyer , and to tackle issue before they hold child back , with a new focus on primary numeracy so that child love math at six , never mind at 16 — excellence for everyone ; not for some of our child but for all of they . there will be free breakfast club in every primary school , because it be about the club , not just the breakfast . every day , every child , every life and every start . there will be 6 , 500 new qualified teacher and a new national voice for our support staff . Ofsted will be reform and improve . we will end the high - stake , low - information culture , with annual check for attendance , safeguard and off - rolling . there will be mental health councillor in our secondary school and new community hub outside they , join up the information that we have on our child so that every child can be support between school and service — every issue catch , share and address . and the cause for which we ask for time today ? a law to register and count the child who be out of school . labour be clear on how we will fund that package and the change that we need : by end the tax break for private school and the mega - rich . we will invest in what we most believe in : our child and their future , excellence for everyone , high and rise standard , and a Britain where background be no barrier to opportunity . the legislation that we will introduce next month , with the House ' s permission if today ' s motion be agree to , will be simple : it will be part 3 of the Government ' s own Schools Bill from 2022 , which provide for a register of child not in school . that be nothing that Conservative Members would not have be prepare to vote for have it be table by their own Ministers , so there can be no reason or excuse for Conservative Members who care about this issue not to support the motion today and the Bill next month . they can choose their party or our child . I commend the motion to the House .