prayer the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Order , 5 September , and Standing Order no . 3 ) . Deputy Speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that Mr Speaker have receive a letter from the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , give notice of his resignation as Chair of the Committee on Standards . the Chair be now vacant . the election for a new Chair will take place to the same timetable as that for the Chairs of the Business and Trade Committee and the Petitions Committee , which Mr Speaker announce yesterday . nomination will close at noon on Tuesday 17 October . nomination form will be available from the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Members from the Labour party may be candidate in this election . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 18 October , between 11 am and 2 . 30 pm , in the Aye Division Lobby . a briefing note with more information will be make available in the Vote Office . Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — resignation Honours Lists whether he have hold recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the publication of the resignation honour list of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk and the former right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip on public trust in ( a ) politician and ( b ) political institution . it be a long - stand convention , under successive government , that outgoing Prime Ministers can draw up a resignation honour list . any name propose be subject to the usual propriety check . trust in politic have never be low , and this have be worsen by the grubby reality that the former right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip hand out peerage to his pal and covid partygoer . the other former Prime Minister be the shortest - serve Prime Minister in history but still manage to crash the economy , and she will also enjoy the privilege of ennoble pal and crony . do the Cabinet Office , the Prime Minister and the Cabinet feel this be inappropriate in any way ? do the Minister think such a spectacle will help to restore trust in politic ? we discuss this at length on 22 June , when it be say that if the hon . Lady be to look at the resignation honour list of the former right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , she will see many people who conduct a great deal of public service and deserve to have that service recognise . we have not yet see the list of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , but it be worth remember that people who be honour in our system have often contribute greatly to our country . before we proceed , the House may wish to join I in wish the Minister a happy birthday . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . what nice way to spend one ' s 28th birthday ? alas , I be not 28 . Artificial Intelligence whether he have hold recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on co - operation with international partner on respond to the potential challenge of the use of artificial intelligence . the Government know the importance of collaborate internationally on the challenge and opportunity of AI . that be why , in the autumn , the Prime Minister will convene the first major AI summit , which will bring together major international partner and leader in the technology to discuss the issue that confront society . it be great to hear that the international community will be come to Bletchley Park in November to discuss the principle and core value when deal with AI . give that AI be move so quickly , with the like of chatgpt already impact thing like the work of school kid , what more can the Government do to make sure each Department be take full account of the impact of AI ? my hon . Friend ask a pertinent question . the Cabinet Office , which be home to the Government Digital Service and the Central Digital and Data Office , take a lead role , along with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , in co - ordinating work within Government so that we can take advantage of the extraordinary opportunity AI present and guard ourselves against potential disadvantage . it be nice to see you in the Chair first thing in the morning , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for his response . constituent all around this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland rely on employment to make end meet and survive . have he have discussion with international partner as to how AI will impact on people ' s livelihood and job ? that be so important . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point , as one potential risk of AI be that it displace employment . however , across Government we be look at the risk and opportunity . we see a future in which human work with AI create all sort of great new opportunity for our economy and for individual . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I also say happy birthday to the Minister . he have just tell the House that the Cabinet Office be responsible for the Government Digital Service — quite rightly . the Government could be make well use of AI to improve government service . for example , we be lose £ 8 billion a year to benefit fraud and error . under this government , we have lose £ 60 billion to that since 2010 — that be £ 150 a second . be they go to use AI to deal with benefit fraud and error , or should we assume that this be another example of how nothing work after 13 year ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place and look forward to debate these and other issue with he in future . he will be delighted to hear that over the past three year the Government have save billion of pound use the late technology — no , they haven ' t . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that they have . I can see he be new to the brief and he have some reading to do . [ interruption . ] he have be move from his previous brief to this one . he may be interested to discover that we regularly convene meeting with group such as Evidence House and 10ds , which contain some of the fine technical experience in Government , to ensure we be take advantage of the late technology to make saving for taxpayer . he talk about money lose , but the money that the Government and the Treasury have save through implement the late technique be far in excess of the number he give . propriety in Public Life what step he be take to help ensure high standard of propriety in public life . what step he be take to help ensure high standard of propriety in public life . as the Prime Minister set out when he first enter Downing Street , this Government will uphold the high standard of integrity and propriety . in July we announce a wide - range programme of reform , act on recommendation from Nigel Boardman , the Committee on Standards in Public Life and the Public Administration Committee . we have all hear that the former Member for Mid Bedfordshire fail to speak in this House for more than a year and that her farcical resignation , which be to have " immediate effect " , take nearly three month , but what about the year when there be no constituency office list for people to make representation to ? with no regard to standard in public life , it be clear that the Tories have sell my neighbouring constituency down the river . do the Secretary of State agree that the good people of Mid Bedfordshire deserve a hard - work , full - time Labour MP such as Alistair Strathern instead ? the people of Mid Bedfordshire deserve a hard - work Member of Parliament who live and work in the constituency , and in Festus they will find exactly that . I have every confidence that they will return he to this House in the by - election next month . at the conclusion of Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) make a point of order , pick up on a statement make by the Prime Minister that she describe as " categorically untrue " . this be about the sixth or seventh time this year that we have have to make such point of order about the Prime Minister . how can we have any confidence that we be go to get high standard in public life if this keep happen ? that be simply not the case . if the hon . Gentleman have listen to the exchange , he would have hear that the Prime Minister answer comprehensively every question raise by the Leader of the Opposition and demonstrate a far great understanding of the detail of this than that demonstrate by his opposite number . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . last year , the Prime Minister say that his Government would do " everything we can " to recover covid fraud loss , yet the crony PPE vip lane help tory - link business owner over small and medium - sized business , mean that £ 15 billion of taxpayer money be waste on useless PPE . the Public Accounts Committee find it " unacceptable " that the Government be not prioritise recoup misuse money , with only £ 21 million — only 2 % — recover from fraudster . what step be the Secretary of State take to fulfil his Government ' s pledge to reclaim misuse taxpayer money ? or be that , like the Prime Minister ' s promise of integrity and accountability , another fail vow ? what we see during the crisis be the Prime Minister , who be then Chancellor , act decisively and rapidly to save the economy and million of job . since we have pass out of the covid period , we be take action to recover fraud and error loss . as set out by my hon . friend , in the past two year alone , we have recover more than £ 3 billion . I would gently say to the hon . Lady that people in glasshouse should perhaps not throw stone , give the experience of her party ' s leader be frogmarch by the police to investigate the misuse of fund by her own party . Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest : remit what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the remit of the independent adviser on ministerial interest . the Prime Minister ' s independent adviser on Ministers ' interest , Sir Laurie Magnus , work within established and robust term of reference , to provide impartial advice on matter relate to the ministerial code . the power and status of the role be strengthen in 2022 and Sir Laurie have say he be very comfortable work within his term of reference . it be an understatement to observe that the ministerial code have be more honour in the breach than in the observance during the last few year , and trust in our politic have suffer as a direct result . it have take the Government two year to respond to the 23rd report of the Committee on Standards in Public Life , and they have fail to accept the most important recommendation in it , include increase the power and transparency of the work of the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest . why ? we have already reform the role of the independent adviser . it be now the case that the independent adviser can initiate investigation with the presumption that the Prime Minister will approve they . that be the appropriate balance , but we have to respect that the Prime Minister must be the ultimate upholder of the ministerial code , because it be an important principle of our parliamentary democracy that the Prime Minister be able to appoint whomever he choose to ministerial post . Veterans Services what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure that service provide by the Government meet the need of veteran and their family . this government be deliver on their commitment within the veteran ' strategy action plan to support veteran and their family . our plan , which be back by an additional £ 33 million announce by the Chancellor in this year ' s Budget , contain commitment across Government , include support for health provision , housing and employment , the majority of which have be deliver or be on track . that be great and we all support those measure , but he will also know that the independent review of the UK Government welfare service for veteran find that the current system be " overly complex " and suffer from " a lack of cohesion , of strategic direction and single oversight " . it also find that veteran regularly receive " poor communication " from Government and be leave " overwhelmed " by the system . do the Minister accept responsibility for those failing and what be he do to fix they ? I initiate that review when I first come back into office under this Prime Minister . that review have now complete . it be due to report before Christmas , but I have pull that forward and I want to see a response from Government to the review by the end of September or the beginning of October . the review highlight change that have be overdue for some time and I look forward to have more to say to the hon . gentleman on that matter when the response come back . cyber - security what step he be take to ensure cyber - security across Government Departments . the Government ' s cyber - security strategy set out our plan to strengthen the resilience of the Government ' s critical function against cyber - attack . a key milestone in our plan come early this year when I launch GovAssure . this be a new approach to cyber - resilience in which department review their cyber - security and take the necessary step to meet the risk that we face . these cyber - attack , which be often totally devastating , have be increase in both severity and frequency not only against Government Departments , but against many of our major business with potentially devastating consequence for livelihood and job . what be we do in Government to take the expertise that we have acquire within Government to protect Government Departments and to spread it across the economy to protect the private sector as well ? my hon . friend be totally correct that the external risk landscape be increase all the time , not least because of the conflict in Russia and Ukraine , which have mean that the United Kingdom , after Ukraine and Russia , be the most cyber - attack nation . we be take a whole - of - Government approach , which be why we create the National Cyber Security Centre , work with GCHQ and the Cabinet Office to ensure that we have robust standard in Government and that we also work with business to improve their standard and , indeed , with private individual . infected Blood Inquiry : Interim Recommendations what recent step he have take to implement the interim recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . what recent step he have take to implement the interim recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . it be a privilege to appear before the infected blood inquiry on 25 July . you , Madam Deputy Speaker , refer to birthday early and I believe that that be the birthday of the right hon . Lady , but she share it with we in the inquiry — she be there in person for the hearing . at the inquiry , I share the work the Government be undertake to consider the interim recommendation and I look forward to receive the final report in the autumn . it be good to see the Paymaster General , the Prime Minister , the Leader of the House and the Chancellor at those reconvene hearing . Sir Brian Langstaff make it very clear that his interim report on compensation be the last word that he be go to make on compensation . the Government have also accept the moral case for compensation . what progress have now be make on Sir Brian ' s recommendation on extend the interim payment to those who be not include in the first tranche of interim payment last year ? as the right hon . Lady know , we be work through this . there be more work to be do . it be a mammoth undertaking , as she know , and we be look forward to the final report and put our response into that context . " work through this " be not good enough . several family in my constituency have lose partner or parent as a result of the infected blood scandal and they be frustrate by the delay and obfuscation . one of my constituent tell I : " the lack of transparency be cause great stress and anxiety to those of we at the heart of this NHS treatment disaster who have already wait decade for our loss and suffering to be recognise . " one person be die every four day . this be become urgent . will the Government commit to a full compensation scheme as quickly as possible ? we commit to respond as soon as we can to the final report . the hon . Gentleman be right that we have accept the moral case for compensation . after the final report come through , we will be bring out our response as swiftly as we can . Afghan Resettlement what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the progress make on move afghan people from hotel to settle accommodation . what recent discussion he have hold with Cabinet colleague on support afghan people who have be resettle in the UK to access independent accommodation . hotel be not and never be design to be long - term accommodation for Afghans resettle in the UK . I be therefore pleased to say that , as of 1 September , in line with our promise , no legally resettle Afghans remain in bridge accommodation . as I tell the House on 18 July , there be a small number for whom time - limit contingency accommodation will be provide , include where there be a need to bridge the short gap between the end of notice period and settle accommodation be ready for they to move into , and in case of medical need , where a family member require continue attendance at a specific hospital . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome the new afghan family to North Devon and thank everyone locally who be work to ensure that their resettlement be as smooth as possible and to give they a true devonian welcome ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and pay tribute to all those work locally in her constituency to prepare to welcome afghan family to the area . North Devon be steep in military history . I be pleased to see her long - stand support for veteran extend to those who assist the UK in Afghanistan as well . I record my admiration for , and thank , the many public and voluntary agency and individual in Fife for the dedication and compassion that they have show to the Afghans they have host over the last two year . sadly , those Afghans be become victim of the big mass eviction that Scotland have see since the highland clearance . when we remember that those people be here because they risk their life for we — they risk their life in Afghanistan for democracy — why have the Government not even consider a Homes for Afghans scheme , similar to the Homes for Ukraine scheme that make such a difference to desperate ukrainian refugee ? largely because these be two different cohort . Ukrainians be look to return to Ukraine in the future ; the afghan cohort be stay here and will be in this country for an indeterminate period . we be look at all way that we can continue to assist those who have come over from Afghanistan . I , too , pay tribute to all the Home Office liaison officer and all the staff in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and in the Ministry of Defence who have work hard to get this over the line . I say that we would honour our commitment to the people of Afghanistan and we will continue to do so . the Minister will be acutely aware , as I be , that around 2 , 000 Afghans who be entitle to the afghan relocation and assistance policy be stick in hotel in Islamabad . I know that he have see the letter that go to the Prime Minister , which I sign along with other colleague . what be the plan to get those 2 , 000 ARAP - entitle Afghans into settle accommodation ? the hon . Member know that this have be a long - stand concern of mine , both before Government and in Government . my area of specific responsibility in term of get people here and into hotel and accommodation have be complete . that be a Home Office area , and I have not have discussion on it so far , but everybody be aware of our commitment to the people who serve in Afghanistan , and the Government will follow through on their commitment to those people . Nuclear Test Veterans : Recognition what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to ( a ) recognise the contribution of nuclear test veteran and ( b ) support the roll - out of the Nuclear Test Medal . while Hollywood remember the work of Oppenheimer , the Government be commit to recognise the contribution of veteran and civilian staff across the UK and the Commonwealth to Britain ' s nuclear test programme . the Office for Veterans ' Affairs be invest £ 450 , 000 in project to commemorate and build further understanding of their experience . I recently visit the Worcestershire Medal Service in Birmingham ' s jewellery quarter to see the first nuclear test medal start roll off the production line . will my right hon . friend update the House on the progress of application for the nuclear test medal , and whether the medal will be ready to be award by Remembrance Sunday ? of course . last time we be here , I make a commitment that we would do everything possible to get these medal on chest by Remembrance Sunday . we be in line with that commitment . we will meet that commitment . this have be a 70 - year project and campaign by these individual . I totally respect that for some it be not fast enough , and for some it be not enough to be do . we be strain every sinew to bring recognition to this cohort and we will continue to do so . we will have those medal ready for Remembrance Sunday this year . I be pleased to hear that continue commitment to ensure that medal be with nuclear test veteran in time for Remembrance Sunday . our nuclear test veteran serve our country with pride and distinction , but give the uncertainty cause by the Government ' s previous comment that the medal would be award by late summer , and then that they would be ready in the autumn , can we have some clarity , and will the Minister tell the House what recent discussion he have have with nuclear test veteran and their representative about a formal medal ceremony ? can he guarantee that nuclear test veteran will be award their medal in a manner befit their brave service ? the hon . member will be aware that Remembrance Sunday be come up , which be a timeline that campaigner want to meet . that give we a narrow window to do the sort of ceremony that I would think befit these individual . it be a balance between get the medal on people ' s chest for Remembrance Sunday and at the same time ensure that they be award in a manner that be in keep with their service . that be simply the art of the possible and what can be do . I be proud of what the Government have do on nuclear test veteran . her party , when it be in power , do not award nuclear test veteran ; in fact , she sign early - day motion to campaign against nuclear weapon , so I will not take any lesson on this . I be proud of what we have do , and I look forward to see medal on chest for Remembrance Sunday . Mental Health : civil servant how many day of sick leave due to mental health be take by civil servant in 2022 . civil service sickness absence datum be publish annually . the late datum indicate that an average of 2 . 3 work day be lose per staff year due to mental ill health for the year end 31 March 2022 . I understand that nearly three quarter of a million civil service working day be lose due to alleged stress and mental health reason , and that that figure be 40 % up on the year before . of course those with genuine mental health need need appropriate support but , give that many civil servant enjoy pay and pension package way in excess of what many people can get in the private sector , what step be the Government take to ensure that only those with genuine mental health condition be grant a leave of absence ? I know my hon . friend will be aware that there have be , in both the private and public sector , a large spike in all sickness absence this year , because of course the comparative datum be with the pandemic period . the good news for he be that the most recent figure from the Office for National Statistics show that sickness absence for all form be low in the most recent period in central Government Departments than it be in the private sector . we work with people who be unwell , use occupational health and employee assistance provision to ensure that they get the support that they need . we continue to wish to drive down the number of people who be off for ill health and to ensure that those who be unwell get the support that they require , but we work with they . Border Target Operating Model : food price what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the border target operating model on the price of ( a ) meat , ( b ) fresh produce and ( c ) other foodstuff . in April , the Government publish a draft british border target operating model and on 29 August we publish our final border target operating model , confirm its introduction on 31 January next year . it outline our new control regime , use well technology and co - ordination to reduce friction and cost , and will provide a simple , yet secure , experience for trader move good across the border . small business up and down the country have spend countless hour and million of pound prepare for these change , only to find that the Government be delay implementation for the fifth time . how do the Minister expect business to have any confidence in make long - term investment and supply chain decision when this Government have such a long list of u - turn and policy blunder ? the hon . Lady be right that we have push the date back several time , first because of covid , secondly because of Ukraine and thirdly to ease the pressure of the cost of living crisis . we be now work in line with business readiness , have have regular engagement with people across the sector . we have now set out , as she will have see from the statement I make to this House in write on 4 September and the write document publish on 29 August , that we have a final time schedule . the Office for National Statistics have find that more than 50 % of people be pay more for their food shop . what be the Government ' s plan to bring down inflation quickly to ensure that people can feed their family ? I be try to glimpse the british border target operating model within that question . the Government have take a range of measure in order to help bring down the cost of live for people , notably the very considerable help we have give people with the cost of fuel . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be great to see you in the Chair so early in the day . member will be aware that the Government attempt to sneak out in the summer that announcement about the utter chaos they have create over the border target operating model . I say to the Minister that inflation be of central relevance to this matter , because the cat be out of the bag . the Government ' s own document concede that these measure , when introduce , will have an impact on inflation and will make the cost of food even higher . can the Minister set out what assessment have be make of the waste money and the cost to taxpayer and business as a result of the Government ' s chaos on this issue ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman to his spot and I look forward to debate with he on this and other issue . I do not quite accept his categorisation of we as sneak out a document by publish it and share it widely on social medium . as I explain to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , we have delay implementation in response to the challenge the country have face . we be now ready to move forward with a brand - new border target operating model , which have the support of business , of vet and of those deal with sanitary and phytosanitary check . it will be a very good thing for the country and will help we to secure our border in new way . well , that be announce when the House be not sit , and to describe something that the Government concede will increase price as a " good thing " be quite extraordinary and show how out of touch they be . let I turn to another area of the Government ' s incompetence . the January 2024 deadline for the rule - of - origin provision be now rapidly approach . unless this matter be deal with , it will devastate our car industry . it should have be anticipate by the Government . can the Minister tell we when an agreement for an extension to that deadline can be secure , and what contingency plan be in place if the Government fail to do that ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s first point , the document be publish when it be ready ; it be not hastily snuck out during recess . on his point about readiness for the trade window in the car industry , that matter be be take seriously by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , who I be sure will be ready to say something shortly . Public Services : Industrial Action what step his Department be take to maintain public service during industrial action . Cabinet Office Ministers have , through Cobra , be assist Departments in their response to industrial action . when there be a spate of industrial action across the public sector , which cause huge disruption to our constituent , it be particularly important that we act together , and the Cabinet Office assist Departments in their planning . like many of my constituent , I commute to London daily via rail and have have to deal with another summer of disruption cause by ASLEF and the RMT , while student be apply for job with unconfirmed grade from unmarked exam paper and junior doctor continue to strike . what be the Minister ' s Department do to end the strike and get those people back to work so that we can continue to clear the backlog and reduce the inflation that they claim to be strike against ? my hon . friend be right : it be outrageous that his constituent can have their life totally upend by strike and by militant union . we will , of course , respect the right to strike , but we have a duty to protect the life and livelihood of the british people . that be what our minimum service level legislation aim to do . it be a pity that the Labour party will not support it . the Labour party govern in Wales and the Tories be in charge here in England , while Scotland be the only place in the UK to avoid any strike in our NHS . that be because Scotland have have and will continue to have the fair and good pay deal in the UK thank to the Scottish Government . the Scottish Health Minister recently offer to mediate in the fresh talk between the UK Government and junior doctor . have the Minister consider that approach give the incompetence of his colleague ? we will take absolutely no lesson from the SNP on how to govern country — I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman look at the news about what be go on in Scotland or hear about it when he visit his constituency . we have in this country a Government of whom we can be proud . I be not certain that that be the view of the scottish people . public procurement : value for Money what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . the UK Government already award contract on the basis of most economically advantageous tender . furthermore , we be currently take the Procurement Bill through Parliament , which be an opportunity to streamline procurement process and ensure that value for money remain central to the UK ' s procurement regime . it be important that taxpayer get value for money when public service be outsource . over recent year , the Home Office have give vast sum of taxpayer ' money to Clearsprings Ready Homes , yet the accommodation that it have contract out for housing asylum seeker have be unfit for human habitation , partly because so much taxpayer ' money be be skim off by unaccountable intermediary before it reach the hotel or food provider . what be the Cabinet Office do to stop that sort of thing happen in outsource service ? I be unable to comment on the specific of that case , but on the broad point , the Procurement Bill cover a range of issue , include how we can improve quality within our supply chain . perhaps the hon . Lady will join we for ping - pong next week . I welcome the recent announcement that a grow number of small and medium - sized enterprise have secure Government contract , but business with a social purpose and female - own business be still under - represent in public procurement opportunity . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss what can be do to remedy that ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend about this and other issue . she will know that the Procurement Bill mean we be now look at the most advantageous tender , which mean that value for money remain central but that those seek to strike up procurement can also look for other factor when decide which contract to sign . we be very much on the same page . National Resilience what progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . strengthen our national resilience be a key priority for I and for the whole government . last month , we update the national risk register . this be the most transparent approach ever take by any Government , design to help the whole of society make the most resilient plan possible . we have also publish guidance clarify lead Government Department responsibility for risk assessment , preparedness , response and recovery . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . can he tell the House what discussion he have have with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on ensure that we have strong security of energy supply as we progress through the energy transition ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that security of energy supply be critical to our national resilience , and we have make significant progress on this . we be move from often import fossil fuel to clean home - grow energy source , and I look forward to work with the new Energy Secretary on this very important issue . environmentally sustainable transport whether he be take step to encourage department to use environmentally sustainable transport . the greening Government commitment prescribe all Departments to address the matter of environmentally sustainable transport management by reduce and refine their need to travel through hybrid working and the current location strategy . departmental location , where possible , be all within 10 minute ' walk of a major public transport hub . will this team wake up ? they have huge potential in the Cabinet Office to influence every Department of State . from my perspective , as a passionate supporter of sustainable transport and particularly the revolution that be come in hydrogen power , I see an inert Department not push other Departments to do well . could they wake up and do something about this ? I can think of nothing nice than be wake up by the hon . Gentleman . I can reassure he that we do encourage our colleague in other Departments to go far on this . we have a range of carbon offset programme in place and , as I say , our location strategy mean that we try to locate people near public transport hub . this be the very essence of a green transport strategy . [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 3mc . ] public Sector Fraud what step his Department be take to help prevent public sector fraud . I be delighted that , in its first year of operation , the Public Sector Fraud Authority be expect to surpass its initial target , as part of the overall £ 3 billion recovery of fraud over the last two year refer to by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . more widely , the Government have invest £ 1 billion in fraud and error reduction since 2022 , and we continue to be recognise as a world leader in combat public sector fraud . we know that whistleblower be responsible for uncover almost half of all fraud — fraud that cost the public sector an estimate £ 40 billion a year — yet our law to protect and support they be not work . if we want to tackle public sector fraud , we need to encourage more people to come forward . will my right hon . friend agree to meet I to discuss how we can well support whistleblower and tackle this vast expense to the public purse ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend , or one of my ministerial colleague will . I can reassure she that we do wish to support whistleblower . it be important that they be support in do what they do . we certainly respect and be grateful for information share by whistleblower . it be just part of the system , though , and it be important that we continue to use AI to ensure that we can track down fraud across the public sector . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . tomorrow mark the first anniversary of the passing of Queen Elizabeth II , and it be of course right that as a country we honour her late Majesty ' s legacy . as a first step towards that , the Government , jointly with the royal household , have establish a new Queen Elizabeth Memorial Committee . that committee will develop proposal for a permanent memorial to the late queen and a broad legacy programme that will enable everyone in the nation to commemorate her life of service to we . the Cabinet Office play a critical role in strengthen our national resilience , and over the summer we publish the most comprehensive edition of the national risk register to date . that important piece of work will help the Government and the whole country prepare for the challenge we face . the Cabinet Office be currently carry out a review into Homes England , and my concern be about the help to buy scheme , which help people to get on to the housing ladder . the Government outsource that service to Lenvi early this year , and since then my constituent have face huge delay in get their application process . be the Minister proud of create a help to buy scheme that be do the exact opposite of what it say on the tin ? of course , it be incumbent on Ministers to drive efficiency in arm ' s length body such as Homes England . I be very happy to pick that up with my relevant ministerial colleague . can my right hon . friend tell we anything more about the Government ' s plan for the late Queen Elizabeth II ' s memorialisation ? I have already meet with Lord Janvrin , who will be lead the committee . he of course have two decade of experience in service to the royal household , include as private secretary to her late Majesty . the aim we be work towards be that the committee will report by 2026 , which would have be her late Majesty ' s 100th birthday . I begin by associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment on mark the anniversary of the death of the late queen . the responsibility of the Cabinet Office include the National Security Council and co - ordinate the Government ' s response to crisis . last night , we learn of a major breach of security with the escape from Wandsworth prison of Daniel Abed Khalife , a terror suspect who be accuse of gather information that could be useful to a hostile state . can the Secretary of State update the House on the search for Mr Khalife , and whether — in the light of his Department ' s responsibility for national security and resilience — he have ask why such a terror suspect be be hold at a low security category prison such as Wandsworth in the first place ? may I begin by welcome the right hon . gentleman to his new position ? it be wonderful that the great tradition of ginger across the Dispatch Boxes continue — although , if he do not mind , one should perhaps describe he as a legacy ginger . he bring a wealth of experience to the role , and I look forward to our exchange . the right hon . Gentleman be of course right to raise this case . as he will know , the Lord Chancellor have ask for an urgent investigation , work with the Prison Service to find out the exact circumstance of what happen in respect of this escape . clearly , the initial law enforcement response will be lead by the Home Office , but I will be work with the Lord Chancellor , the Home Secretary and other to ensure that we rapidly apprehend this individual and learn the lesson of what lead to this escape in the first place . I thank the Secretary of State . I can only say to he that the hair may go but the skin remain the same , so in solidarity I wish he well in the current heat . it be report that Mr Khalife manage to escape by cling to the underside of a food delivery van . this be obviously an extraordinary situation , give the strict procedure that be suppose to govern the entry and exit of vehicle on the prison estate , so can the Secretary of State outline how those procedure will now be review ; what other aspect of prison security will also be review , and over what timescale ; and when the public and Parliament will be inform of any change make as a result of this very serious breach of security ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct to raise all of these question , and that be precisely what my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor be oversee with an examination into that right now . if the individual escape in those circumstance , that clearly should not have happen . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend take it very seriously indeed , and will of course update the House on the outcome of the investigation . of course , the Home Secretary will update the House , alongside the Lord Chancellor , on step to apprehend the individual . over the summer I once again visit Rolls - Royce and meet some of its brilliant apprentice , and last year , with the armed force parliamentary scheme , I be shadow our Royal Navy . it be clear that some of the challenge on nuclear skill be mirror in the military and the private sector . what be the Cabinet Office do to bring together extra work and extra career path , so that those who have nuclear skill can transition between the two ? I thank my hon . friend for his very important question . alongside a lot of the support mechanism we have introduce — Operation Fortitude , Operation Courage , Operation Restore and Operation Nova — we have a series of mission or sector initiative for accelerate veteran who have come out of the military with specialist skill into a job and make sure those skill be not go to waste . have a job remain the no . 1 factor in improve the life chance of veteran . veteran employment be at 87 % — it have never be high — but there be more to do , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend in the month ahead . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be clear from their action that the Tories want to privatise our health service , sell datum from England ' s NHS to a Trump - back business , Palantir , under a £ 27 million datum deal . this be do without a competitive tender . not only that , but they also accept a £ 5 million donation from a rich health tycoon this week . do the Deputy Prime Minister not agree with I that the only way to guarantee protection and integrity for Scotland ' s NHS be to keep it out of Westminster Tory hand and keep it in the hand of the people of Scotland ? the hon . Lady will know , because she sit on the Procurement Bill Committee , that we have a new procurement regime come in , but in the case she refer to it be my understanding that everything be above board and in line with due process . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I join you in wish my hon . friend the Minister a happy birthday ? give that the constitution be reserve to this UK Parliament , and give that there do not appear to be much in the way of anything new in the programme for government set out this week , do my hon . friend agree that the First Minister of Scotland would do well to focus on the real issue that matter to the people and business of Scotland , rather than obsess with break up the United Kingdom ? as ever , my hon . friend have his finger on the pulse . I be lucky enough to be on a work trip to Edinburgh and Glasgow just before the summer break , and all the people I meet there be interested in employment , skill , the state of the health service , and law and order . not one person raise a second referendum with I , which be because it be not among people ' s priority in Scotland . People ' s priority be the same as those of the Westminster Government . Ipsos recently publish its annual poll on trust in politic , which reveal that only 12 % of respondent actually believe what a politician be say — the low level in 29 year . will the Minister look again at my Elected Representatives ( code of Conduct ) Bill , which be aim specifically at restore trust and confidence in politic and politician ? I be very happy to look again at the hon . Lady ' s work . our general belief be that it be our action in this place and outside it as elect representative that will restore trust in politic rather than legislation , and that be a job for all of we . the cost to Government of ill health run into hundred of billion . the economic impact of obesity alone be estimate to be over £ 58 billion , account for the cost to the NHS and social care , lose productivity , workforce inactivity and welfare payment . do my right hon . friend agree with I that it be time for a taskforce to look holistically at health and societal challenge and to develop early intervention strategy on a multi - departmental basis ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight those challenge . the health service — I have see this in my own constituency — be come up with innovative model to look at wide public health , and to address exactly that issue . we want to get more people back into the workforce , and we need to deal with some of those long - term challenge . although the police datum leak in Northern Ireland be cause by human error , it raise wide concern about cyber - security and datum for our public service worker . I have be approach by constituent who work particularly within policing . they would like some reassurance that the Cabinet Office be work with force across England and Wales to ensure that those type of data breach do not happen again , and that the Cabinet Office will do more work on secure people ' s personal datum , particularly when they be work in service such as the police force . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that this issue be local to the Police Service of Northern Ireland , but he be also right — I fully acknowledge this — that there may be question to learn across Government about how we make certain that people ' s data be secure . it be critical that individual work and provide a service to the country know that their data be secure . I agree with he on that , and I have have discussion with official about what we can to do ensure we can give that reassurance . will the Cabinet Office convene an inter - ministerial committee — between the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and the Treasury — to consider what to do where we have build ten of thousand of house but section 106 money have not be allocate for adequate health facility ? this be a problem across our country and on both side of the House . I hope we will solve it for the future with what we be do with the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill and the infrastructure levy , but there be a legacy problem that need the attention of the Cabinet Office . give its co - ordinating role in Government , that would be a very useful thing for the Department to do , and an extremely necessary one . that be an interesting proposal . if we be to get public consent for the number of house we need to build , we must be able to reassure people that the infrastructure be in place . that be precisely what the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill seek to do . I will look at my hon . friend ' s proposal for an inter - ministerial group . I be always a little cautious about set up more inter - ministerial group , unless I can be sure that they will actually deliver some further outcome , but I take his proposal seriously . cleaning and security staff in three Whitehall Departments be now strike over a poverty pay offer by the outsourced contractor ISS . what be minister do to help resolve that dispute with the Public and Commercial Services Union , and to end the race to the bottom for the pay and term and condition of vital worker due to outsourcing ? I be sorry that strike action be ongoing . ultimately , this be a matter between the employee and their employer . will the Minister for Veterans ’ affair update the House on the Northern Ireland legacy legislation ? yesterday the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill pass this House . Legacy be an incredibly difficult issue . victim have be let down for many year . veteran have be let down . this Government make a commitment that we would see through our promise to both those group , and that be what we do yesterday . I be disappointed that the opposition vote against it again , but politics be about choice , and I be proud of what this Government have deliver . far to the question on the infected blood inquiry from my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , why will the Government not get on with extend the interim payment now , as they could do and as be recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff ? it be absolutely shameful to delay that any long , and there be no excuse . I have hear many time from the hon . Lady about this subject and about her constituent . she speak about it passionately in this House and have do so for a number of year . I come back to my early answer : we pay interim compensation last year , as the House be aware , and the second interim report have come through . I be expect the final report in the autumn , put we in a place to respond as swiftly as possible once it be receive . yesterday mark a year since the Prime Minister ' s predecessor take office , and as you may remember , Madam Deputy Speaker , a lettuce end up outlast she . due to Tory economic mismanagement , that same lettuce would now cost around 20 % more . the cost of food might not be an issue for the Prime Minister , who be the rich MP in the House of Commons , but it be a concern for my constituent . what discussion have Ministers have with Cabinet colleague on tackle food insecurity ? I know that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Chancellor of the Exchequer engage regularly with supermarket , food provider and other to make sure that we continue to keep price low . it be the case that since the Prime Minister come to office , we be now see inflation fall , and we have see a record upward revision in growth number , which now show that we recover fast from covid than any other european country , contrary to the repeat assertion of the party on the Opposition Benches . I be go to have another go : why be it that the Minister have not be able even to implement recommendation 17 of the second interim report , which be to set up a bespoke psychological service for those infected and affected , when other nation of the United Kingdom have be able to do that ? why have England be leave out ? why have the Government not be able to do that ? that issue be be take forward , as the right hon . Lady know , by the Department of Health and Social Care . I know it have make substantial progress on exactly such a scheme , and I look forward to it make an announcement in due course . the forthcoming by - election in Rutherglen and Hamilton West will be the first in Scotland under the new requirement for voter identification . we know that thousand of voter in England be disenfranchise at council election because they do not have a passport or drive licence . what specific step be the Cabinet Office take to make sure that the voter of Rutherglen and Hamilton West , who want to turn out in their thousand to elect Katy Loudon as their MP , be not prevent from do so because they be too poor to own a passport or drive licence ? I hope the hon . Gentleman be not suggest that people can only vote if they have a passport or driver ' s licence . if he do not know that that be untrue , he now do . we have have a widespread publicity campaign to ensure that people understand the identity requirement at election . at the local election , despite considerable scaremongering from Opposition party , the disruption be minimal . that conclude question . I pause for a moment to allow the change of dramatis personae on the Front Bench — there be quite a lot of movement this morning . business of the House we come to business question , and I welcome Lucy Powell to her new post as shadow Leader of the House . will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for next week be as follow : Monday 11 September — general debate on Ukraine , follow by a motion relate to appointment to the Electoral Commission . Tuesday 12 September — Tributes to the Clerk of the House , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Online Safety Bill , follow by a debate on a motion to approve the draft Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ( amendment ) Order 2023 . Wednesday 13 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Procurement Bill [ Lords ] , follow by consideration of a Lords message on the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , follow by a debate on a motion to approve the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 . Thursday 14 September — debate on a motion on football and dementia , follow by a debate on a motion on support for bereaved child . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 15 September — the House will not be sit . I thank the Leader of the House for that update . she have put this job on the world stage , and I look forward to work with she . may I also welcome my deputy , my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) , fresh from the Public Accounts Committee ? I also welcome the new member to their place , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) . I be delighted to take up this important role , and I put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , who be a great shadow Leader of the House . I also thank some of her predecessor , too , for their advice . all of they say that this job be vital for uphold truth and democracy and for ensure that the Government be hold to account by his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . I fear that this be now need more than ever . after 13 year of this Government , our politic have increasingly be drag into disrepute by cronyism , scandal and , as I be afraid always happen with a Tory Government , sleaze . I be sorry to say that this House , our sacred seat of democracy , have become an afterthought to a press release , a place for Ministers to avoid at all cost if they can — disrespect and disregard by disinterested Ministers . in this place , where Ministers use to regard it as their duty to be candid , we have see rule break , evasiveness and spin , despite Mr Speaker ' s valiant and often successful effort to the contrary . minister do not seem to know what their power be for anymore , with " a zombie Parliament where nothing meaningful have happen . . . the Government be adrift . " that be not my verdict , but that of the former Member for Mid Bedfordshire . the writ be move this week for two more by - election . add to the slew of other , they speak volume about this rotten government . today we hear that the people of Tamworth can finally get an MP they can be proud of . sometimes these session be an occasion for levity — let ' s be honest , there be plenty of material . just this week , we have the Education Secretary ' s hot mic interview . but quite frankly , it be just not funny anymore ; it be tragic . it be tragic to see this country ' s reputation and potential trash by a Tory Government that have linger too long . the debate and statement this week have bring no real answer about fix crumble school after a decade of under - investment . Parliament and parent need answer , so can the Leader of the House provide they ? will she lay before Parliament the advice give to the Prime Minister before the spending review that cut funding to school rebuilding ? can she tell we exactly when the " new evidence " of the imminent danger be give to Ministers ? will she guarantee that the list of school publish yesterday be correct , and pledge that Ministers will come to Parliament to update it ? will she confirm that 19 of the school affect have building project cancel in 2010 ? will she lay before Parliament a full list of all public building affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete ? may I advise the Leader of the House not to repeat the nonsense we hear during Prime Minister ' s question yesterday ? indeed , will she first correct the record of the Prime Minister ' s claim ? the Leader of the Opposition have raise school building safety many time , include through Opposition day motion , which the Leader of the House vote against . labour ' s programme , which be aim at secondary school , be the big capital investment in school for a generation , and her Government scrap it immediately on take office . before criticise it again today , she might want to be remind of the fact that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have since say that scrap it be his " big mistake " . finally , we have have no mention of this week ' s anniversary , which Conservative Members might want to forget : it be one year since the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) become Prime Minister . in the interest of parliamentary accountability , it be an important event to debate , as her six - week tenure leave a crippling legacy for mortgage holder , with million now pay hundred of pound a month more , thank to her reckless decision , all of which the Leader of the House defend and support . at the time , the Leader of the House say that the right hon . member for South West Norfolk have a " bold economic plan " . will she now apologise for put she in office and for the price the rest of we be pay for her kamikaze Budget ? will she bring forward legislation to stop the House be bring far into disrepute by the former Prime Minister ' s elevate her crony to the House of Lords ? we have have no contrition . it be the Leader of the House ' s job to uphold the integrity of this place and its member , include former Prime Ministers , in the eye of the public . how will she ensure that Parliament can do this ? first , I add my voice to the many who have pay tribute to the Lionesses for their incredible achievement . we be all so proud of they , not just for the brilliant football they play , but for their conduct and the solidarity they have show with the spanish team . I do wish to commemorate an important anniversary , but a different one from the one that the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) mention . many right hon . and hon . member will be think of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on the anniversary of her death , which be this week , and I anticipate many tribute to her service , strength and devotion to duty in the come day . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) for her service to this House . I very much enjoy work with she . I welcome the hon . member for Manchester Central and her team to this place . I hope I can say congratulation to she , but I understand if commiseration be in order . the clock have strike midnight and she have have to leave the glitter ball that be the culture , medium and sport brief . go be the growl engine of Silverstone , the champagne flute of the Royal Opera House and the peel grape of BBC hospitality . ascot ' s horse have turn into House of Commons mouse , and she be in the scullery with I for company . I thank she for the meeting we have already have . for my part , I will do my good to make sure that it be productive and enjoyable , and I look forward to work with she and her team . I must reject the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of both this Parliament and this Government . in this session , 34 Government Bills have achieve Royal Assent , amount to 1 , 578 page of legislation . we have be very busy indeed , and I thank all member of this House for their attention to that . I also reject her characterisation of this Government . she focus on correct the record , and I take what she say seriously and genuinely . all credit to she , she admit when she have get thing wrong . she admit that she be wrong to support the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . [ interruption . ] no . I think the hon . Lady be wrong about the Prime Minister ' s comment , but I understand that she will not take my word for it , so I suggest she look at the Times ' analysis of yesterday ' s exchange , which back the Prime Minister both on the building programme and that he do not cut the budget . I would be interested in how many time she raise RAAC as an issue in this House when she be shadow Education Secretary . give her commitment to the fact , will she admit that Labour have get it wrong on the economy ? Labour have be , wrongly , talk this nation down , but it have now be demonstrate that we have have the fast recovery from the pandemic in the G7 . that be vindication of the Prime Minister ' s furlough and bounce back loan scheme . the hon . Lady understandably focus on the situation of school infrastructure . I remind she that Labour ' s building school programme exclude 80 % of school , and be poor value for money and highly ineffective . on a personal note , when I get my seat in 2010 , my school be so bad that a secondary school be shut because it be too dangerous to teach in and have legionnaire ' bacteria in it . it and another in my patch have now be rebuild , and we have a new university technical college . the hon . Lady criticise Secretaries of State for Education , but what they have deliver mean that , across England , we have 10 % more good or outstanding school , nearly 30 , 000 additional teacher and the good literacy outcome in the western world . the current Education Secretary put the safety of child first , in contrast to labour in Wales , which have not act so swiftly , despite similar warning . the health and safety priority of the Labour Government in Wales appear to be focus on people buy meal deal , as oppose to a lump of concrete fall on a child ' s head . that go to show that Labour ' s priority be wrong . in bankrupt Birmingham , politically correct street name trump pay woman a fair wage . good stewardship of public fund be trump by utter incompetence on an epic scale . as a leak memo from Labour headquarters say : " budget cut and the size of the City be use as reason to explain the situation however , this do not hold up under scrutiny " . our Prime Minister recognise that for we to be worthy of public support , we must focus on the public ' s priority : the safety and education of their kid ; in particular , a strong , grow economy , low debt and inflation ; great , accessible healthcare ; and border control . where Labour be in power , and in its support of strike and vote against our legislation , it show that it can not and will not deliver on those priority of the british people . I will close by give the hon . Lady , on her first outing , some advice . from this Pompey supporter to that Man City supporter opposite : in politic , as in football , the blue team be always good . this House , as the Leader of the House be aware , take a dim view of bullying — unless it be by I . she will be shock to learn that Britain ' s bad water company have now resort to thuggery and strong - arm tactic to silence parliamentarian and the press . I refer , of course , to the Pennon Group , which include the nation ' s filthy and leaky supplier , South West Water . its chairman , Gill Rider — who work for the Cabinet Office and so be use to leak , I suppose — have hire City lawyer to threaten the press and parliamentarian if we speak out against the company . she be run a mob that have conviction for pollute river , pay its top gun criminal bonus and , despite the wet July on record , still have a hosepipe ban . it be operate like a mafia . this be absolutely appalling . may we have an urgent debate in Government time on these ruddy water company , who be blackmail their customer and parliamentarian to stop the truth come out ? my hon . friend have raise issue relate to that particular company many time in business question , and the whole House can sense his frustration and anger with what be happen . I suggest that he may wish to raise the matter with the relevant Secretary of State on 19 October . he be an experienced parliamentarian and will know how he can achieve a debate . I , too , welcome the shadow Leader of the House to her post and I pay real tribute to her predecessor . it be a bit of a surprise to we all that the Leader of the House herself be still in post , hang on against all the odd , especially give the way her Government be unravel day by catastrophic day . during summer recess we all see she on her late leadership tour in Scotland . Madam Deputy Speaker , she can not stay away from the place . two visit in one year — it must be a record for a Tory Minister ! speak at a fringe event , she characterise Scotland as a " fierce and powerful nation " be hold back by the " bile and hatred " of the SNP . in her reflection on her visit , the Leader of the House mount a defence of the Union base on our " poem " , " our rivalry " , and our " blood and our brotherhood " . Madam Deputy Speaker , we have no interest in be " fierce " , whatever that mean ; we just want the power to govern ourselves like any modern democratic country and build a fairer , green and more prosperous nation . I think I know why the Leader of the House be so keen to head north of the border . it be because when she be there she see a very different country . I could not put it well than the respected Oxford professor Danny Dorling , who say last month : " Scotland be show we the route to a fairer society and be help to prevent Britain from become a fail state . " Professor Dorling add : " Scotland already have a low proportion of child live in poverty than the most affluent region of England , which be the south east . further progress " — on inequality — " have be achieve through the Scottish Child Payment … raise to £ 25 a week " . and finally : " Scotland show we a well way forward . " in contrast , he have describe the reaction of politician in England to address inequality as be to promise " only minor remedial action with short - term impact " . the Leader of the House call I delusional when I point out to her previously Scotland ' s fast economic growth , our low unemployment and our low rate of child poverty than the rest of the UK , and when I tell she that not a single day in the Scottish NHS have be lose to industrial dispute and that we have the well pay teacher in the UK . the next time she come back from a day trip to Scotland , can we have a debate on what she have learn from we ? well , I have genuinely miss these exchange , where the hon . Lady blame everyone except the Scottish Government , who be one of the most powerful devolve Administrations in the world . she invite I to tell the House what I learn on my very pleasant trip to Scotland over the summer . I learn that Scotland have slow economic growth than England . I be shocked to learn that victorian disease , such as ricket , have return to certain city in Scotland , and that Glasgow ' s rat problem be now so bad it be preclude binman access certain street because it be too dangerous for they . I discover that the bill to scottish taxpayer for the smelting business debacle stand at £ 32 million . I discover that £ 33 million , which be ringfence for scottish farmer , have go awol . I also learn that the scottish auditor have only be able to give a qualified sign - off to the SNP ' s account . I tour other part of the UK as well . in Manchester — this may interest the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) — I discover that Greater Manchester police have be force to issue a crime reference number follow a complaint about the SNP give constituency seat in return for cash . I also learn that there be a £ 1 billion black hole in the scottish programme for government , which be announce this week . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) for invite I to put that on the record . the hon . Lady seek to blame everyone else for this situation : I , the UK Government , and anyone else who be around except the Scottish Government . this summer , a former colleague of hers even try to blame agent of a foreign power for infiltrate the SNP and make all these terrible decision . the SNP be never short of a grievance , but it be now run out of excuse . I look forward to hear next week what other excuse there may be . the execution of Mary Queen of scot ? the highland clearance ? the hundred year war ? the grotesque chaos and appal public service from which the hon . Lady ' s constituent and the rest of the scottish people be suffer be entirely down to the SNP . they be now a sad , spend force , and be no long the UK ' s separatist party : that dubious honour now go to the Labour party in Wales . the Leader of the House may be aware of a tragedy that strike a chord of sadness and anger among my constituent , in the wide Black Country , nationally and , indeed , internationally . the building know as the Crooked House pub be build in 1765 . it be symbolic of the region ' s industrial heritage , and be home to ten of thousand of individual personal memory . soon after its sale , the Crooked House be subject to an arson attack , follow by unlawful demolition , notwithstanding the local council ' s instruction that that should not be do . this be an ongoing trend across the country . may we please have a debate in Government time to see what this place can do to well protect such heritage pub ? hear , hear ! I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue , and I hope the approval for his question that I have just hear across both side of the House be audible to other . I believe that this appalling incident be still subject to a police investigation , but it appear that road lead to the pub be block to prevent emergency vehicle from reach the fire . I hope I speak for all of we when I say that this be an appalling and disgraceful situation . I be encourage by the statement from Andy Street that it would be deal with , and that if it turn out that there have be foul play , people would be hold to account . I be sure that if my hon . friend apply for a debate it would be extremely well attend , and that he have the support of everyone in this place . I thank the Leader of the House for announce next week ' s business . I note that she do not announce the business for Monday 18 and Tuesday 19 September , but I understand that the Government intend to award the Tuesday to the Backbench Business Committee . if that be the case , we would propose a pre - recess general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the one that take place before the summer recess be very well subscribe and time limit be impose , and I be sure that this would also be a popular debate . I now need to declare an interest , in that I be the chair of the governor of a maintain primary school and a member of the board of trustee of an academy trust . one aspect of the Government ' s management of the crisis over reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in school be , on the face of it , bizarre if not perverse and wasteful : namely the fact that move furniture from an affected school to an empty building would apparently fall under revenue cost and would not be allowable under the Government ' s current proposal . if the school decide not to move furniture but to buy brand - new furniture for an empty building , that would be allow to fall under capital cost . that seem to I to be a very strange decision on the part of the Department for Education . could the Leader of the House perhaps check to see whether that be indeed the case , and if it be , could she persuade the Department to change its mind about support revenue cost , give that that would be wasteful and unwise ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his always helpful advert for forthcoming Backbench Business opportunity . he know that I wish to give he as much notice as possible , and I will continue to do so when we have lock in the time . I be all in favour of gumption be apply , and I will make sure the Secretary of State for Education , who be also in favour of gumption be apply , have hear what he have say today and make sure all member know the fact . we have manifesto commitment to ban the live export of animal for slaughter and to crack down on the illegal smuggling of dog . the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill would have deliver those promise , but it be withdraw . when will the Government produce new legislation to keep those important promise ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this important point . we have a great track record on improve animal welfare , and our animal welfare legislation be now world lead . we be still committed to those manifesto commitment , and my committee be busy look at these issue . she will know that further business will be announce in the usual way , but she should be reassure . today be 270 day since Azerbaijan begin its blockade of the Lachin corridor , cause huge hardship to the population of Nagorno - Karabakh , who be under siege without basic supply and whose suffering be get bad . can we have an urgent statement from a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister to make sure the Government be use all the lever they have to press Azerbaijan to comply with international obligation and lift the blockade ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this matter . Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question be not until 24 October , so I will write on her behalf to make sure that minister have hear her concern . I want to praise the Rush skatepark team and star such as Edith Bowman , Tom Smith , Andy Burrows and Katy Pearson for organise an incredible fundraising event at the Sub Rooms on Friday night . young people be , sadly , still devastate by the council ' s decision to close Rush skatepark a few year ago , but we be work to rebuild a brand - new , even well skatepark for they . I urge everyone in the district to support it . will my right hon . friend agree to look into how often sport such as skating , scooting and BMX get attention in this place and see whether she can find time for a debate on this life - change set of sport and their popularity among young people ? I thank my hon . friend for the work she be do to ensure that these much - need facility can continue in her constituency . she be absolutely right , and I know that many member of this House very much value sport club and society , and particularly the sport she mention . she will know that , if she be to apply for a debate , it would be well attend . we have have a number of debate on these issue quite recently . osteoporosis affect about 15 % of the UK population , especially woman . early diagnosis be vital and could lead to many thousand of preventable death . the Royal Osteoporosis Society be base in Bath , and I be sure the Leader of the House and everybody here will join I in congratulate it on its excellent work . the Royal United Hospital in Bath have a specialist fracture clinic , but only half of NHS England trust provide such clinic . can we have a debate in the House on support for fracture liaison service and on people live with osteoporosis ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue and for the work go on in her constituency on this important matter . the next question to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will be on 17 October , and I will therefore draw to his attention the good good practice in her constituency . osteoporosis and brittle bone be a key cause of fracture . if we could reduce pressure on the NHS by make sure we alleviate those condition , that would be good too . resident across Keighley and our wide area be get feed up with firework constantly be let off throughout the night and well into the early hour of the morning . that be not limit to bonfire night ; it be happen throughout the year . many be part of celebratory event , particularly wedding , and be let off by family who have no consideration for their neighbour , which be have an impact on young people , pet and hard - work people who just want to get a decent night ' s sleep so that they can get up in the morning . may we have a debate in Government time on well enforcement , hold West Yorkshire police to account , and tough licensing provision on the sale of firework ? we could also look at restrict the use of firework to public event only . I congratulate my hon . friend on be the first person to raise this issue . I anticipate he will be the first of several , as this be a common theme at this time of the year . he have raise his concern with regard to his constituent and I shall make sure the relevant Secretary of State have hear those by write on his behalf today . I suggest that the Backbench Business Committee might be the good place to secure a debate . have be in this job for a year , I know that such a debate be likely to be well support and well attend . be the Leader of the House aware that Guy ' s and St Thomas ' s hospital , where many of we have benefit from treatment , be among the very few of our hospital at the top of the world ranking ? why do so few of our constituent live near a world - class hospital ? what have go wrong in the past 13 year with our health service , where we have so few of the world ' s lead hospital ? we have many fabulous hospital . when I come into this House in 2010 , my local hospital be the bad in the country for MRSA and clostridium difficile infection , but it be now a fantastic hospital . health outcome have improve there , despite all the stress of the pandemic , and we have a new accident and emergency department be build , which will open next year . that be the story of many place around the UK . we should be celebrate and talk up the fantastic hospital in this country , just as we should be talk up our strong economy and all the opportunity we have here since we leave the European Union . I hope that one day the Labour party will do that . the record 1 , 455 police officer in Bedfordshire achieve under the leadership of Chief Constable Trevor Rodenhurst and the police and crime commissioner Festus Akinbusoye be very welcome . however , we face a serious problem with shoplifting , with a low proportion of police turn out when shop notify they and an even low number of conviction . I have some shop locally where store manager be tell the shoplifter to take what they can so long as they do not hurt the staff . this be simply unacceptable in a cost of living crisis , when poor people and all of we have to end up pay more . may we have a debate in which we can raise these issue and make clear to the Home Office this House ' s view on shoplifting and the action that the police need to take ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point , and he be absolutely right in what he say . small shop be lifeline for community ; it be a sorry state of affair if they be not able to thrive and be disincentivise from continue their business . he will know that , leave aside fraud and computer crime , we have halve crime since 2010 , on roughly the same — slightly more — resource . that be a tremendous record , but there be more to be do , with a particular focus on antisocial behaviour and these kind of crime . he will know that the Home Office recently say that every crime of this nature need to be follow up and investigate . I will make sure that the Home Office have hear what my hon . friend have say . I think such issue will be the focus of many colleague in the come week . I have write to petrol provider in Barnsley ask they to lower price , because they be regularly 3p a litre higher , if not more , than in neighbouring area in Yorkshire . indeed , this week it be cheap to get petrol in central London than in Barnsley . I simply do not believe that motorist in Barnsley should be pay a petrol premium , so will the Government make a statement on what they be do to tackle local and regional price disparity ? that be a very important issue which will affect many household in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , as well as business . she will know that the Government have act and be set up what Fair Fuel UK have call a PumpWatch scheme . the Competition and Markets Authority be now establish a number of measure to ensure that there be fair pricing at the pump and that competition be improve . she will know that the Government have do other thing to help her constituent and to lower the cost of fuel . in the same time that Labour put up fuel duty by 46 % , we have lower it by 7 . 5 % . on the eve of the rugby world cup , will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Aramis Rugby , a North Devon - base manufacture company , on provide all the scrum machine use in this year ' s tournament ? follow the success of the Lionesses and with England host next year ' s woman ' s rugby world cup , can we have a debate in Government time on the link between host sport event and participation in sport ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that and give we the opportunity again to celebrate the success of woman in sport , as well as the fantastic news of our host the next woman ' s rugby world cup . that be wonderful news and we have a great record of host such event . since 2012 , we have host over 130 sporting event , which be a great record to be proud of . I will make sure that her enthusiasm have be hear by the relevant Minister . the Leader of the House will be alarmed to learn that the police have confirm that last year there be 15 attack on war memorial in Northern Ireland — atrocious , despicable attack , where poppy be rip off , plaque remove and there be criminal damage . last year there be five arrest for those terrible event and some of those case be ongoing . do the Leader of the House think it would be appropriate to have a debate on this issue , or be there a well way of raise awareness so that the public can express their concern and outrage at those attack ? I be extremely sorry to hear that . I know that for many local community who tend those memorial that will be a hugely upsetting thing to have happen . it be incredibly important that those memorial be protect . if the hon . Gentleman be to apply for a debate , I think it would be extremely well attend . I will make sure that the Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland and for Defence have hear his concern . last weekend , I be thrill to attend Southend City Jam , an international festival of street art . it be the large in Europe and display 240 artist from around the world , include Brian Lewis , know as JEKS , from North Carolina , who be in the Public Gallery , along with his girlfriend , melissa . give the festival bring in over 200 , 000 visitor to the new city of Southend , can we have a debate on the role of street art as part of our rich cultural heritage ? it sound like an absolutely wonderful event . I thank my hon . friend for bring it , as well as our visitor , to the House ' s attention . she will know that almost £ 5 million in Arts Council England funding have be award to 162 organisation involve in street art or graffiti art , which be an important part of our culture . she may also wish to give the subject another airing at the next Culture , Media and Sport question , the date of which be to be confirm . section 71 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 require that by April 2023 the Government lie before Parliament a report on spike . that deadline have long pass and the Government be now face threat of legal action for fail to meet their statutory duty . the long the Government dither and delay , the more vulnerable people be put at risk . can the Leader of the House confirm the precise date that she expect the report to be lay before Parliament ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point . I will make sure that the Home Secretary have hear her concern and contact her office with an update . the next question to the Home Office will be on 18 September . many of my constituent have contact I to express concern about the delay in pass regulation on the use of electronic collar . electronic collar work by deliver an electronic pulse to suppress unwanted behaviour , which can be painful and frightening and even decrease the animal ' s ability to learn , so I be pleased that in April the Government announce a very welcome ban on their use . however , no date have be set for the final stage of legislation . More than 90 % of the population be in favour of implement a ban as soon as possible on this cruel practice . do my right hon . friend agree , and can she confirm a timetable for bring forward this important piece of legislation ? my hon . friend be right that we be committed to this matter . we be not intend to ban thing such as perimeter fencing , which protect animal , but shock collar cause unnecessary suffering . I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear her keenness for an update . she will know that the next Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question be not until 19 October , so I will write to the Department today on her behalf . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) — my good friend and Greater Manchester neighbour — on her appointment to her new position as shadow Leader of the House . I know that she will do an excellent job . I also wish to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) on be appoint her deputy . as Britain and India negotiate a trade agreement , it be important that benefit of such a deal be share across the region and nation . despite a large community of people of indian heritage and many indian business in the north of England , and the fact that Manchester airport , a stone ' s throw from my constituency , be the third busy airport in the UK , there be no direct flight between Manchester and India . will the Leader of the House therefore grant a debate in Government time on connectivity from Manchester airport to international destination and the potential benefit that that would bring to the north - west and , indeed , to the rest of the country for trade , culture , family tie and our educational institution ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right and , as a former trade policy Minister , I can tell he that one of the benefit of more regular economic dialogue with our partner nation be to address precisely those thing . in fact , part of my visit to various country around the world , include the United States , be about secure extra flight route into his local area . it be tremendously important , not least because we want to attract investment and business to those area . he will know that we will not be have live discussion about trade deal , but I know that such accessibility will be very much part of the discussion and script from which our Ministers will be work . car insurance firm often increase premium after a crash even if the accident be cause entirely by the negligence of another driver . for one of my constituent , Ageas increase her premium by 40 % after file a no - fault claim , despite the fact that the car be park legally and my constituent be not even in the vehicle when the crash happen . this be because , statistically , those who file any claim be deem by the insurance company more likely to make a future claim . that assumption completely ignore individual circumstance and be extremely unfair to those who make no - fault claim . can we have a debate in Government time on this system and on what step can be take to prevent insurance company from make these unfair assumption and fleece our constituent , particularly at a difficult time regard the cost of living ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise what he have identify as a very important issue . he be an experienced parliamentarian and will know how to apply for debate . I be sure that if he do apply for one , it would be extremely well attend . in raise this matter today , he have give insurance company the opportunity to respond to this concern . if there be any public affair officer from the major insurance firm listen to this debate , I would encourage they to take to social medium this afternoon to clarify their policy on this area . I be sure that we would all applaud they if they step up and give their policyholder an excellent service . the covid pandemic affect all of we , but the most devastatingly affected be the family who lose love one , and they be still be affect . next Wednesday I will launch my new film , " the Unequal Pandemic " , which focus on three family ' experience . it reveal that , instead of be the great leveller that the Government say that it would be , the pandemic expose deep structural inequality , affect who and where be most impact . I would love to see the Speaker of the House and all member at the launch , but will the Leader of the House allow for a debate specifically on what we can do to ensure that the inequality that affect the experience of the pandemic be address adequately ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this matter and advertise this event . she be absolutely right , particularly as the covid inquiry look at these matter , that the experience and concern of those who lose love one should be at the forefront . it be a terribly traumatic few year for everyone , with the isolation and the additional pressure that people face . to lose , in some case , multiple family member during such a time be incredibly hard to metabolise and bear . she will know how to apply for a debate , but if she send the detail to my office I shall look at way I can support this . my constituent generally support reach net zero , but not when we put in front of they the estimate increase in cost to their family to pay for it , not least the additional cost of green tariff on energy bill , move away from gas boiler , ban new petrol car , and so on . the transition to net zero be estimate to cost around £ 1 trillion and will invariably be bear by hard - work family who can least afford it . have debate the Energy Bill this week , would now be an opportune time to consider hold a debate on the estimate cost of net zero and how it will affect ordinary family in this country ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . I have great sympathy with what he outline . I would not just say , " what be the fair and right thing to do ? " if we want to be successful in make this transition , and help other country to do so , we can do that only with technology , solution and innovation that people will love and want to adopt , and that will make their bill cheap and their life easy . that be the only way we will be successful in meet our environmental ambition . I encourage he to apply for a debate , and to focus on not just the cost , but the value of innovation and how we can encourage british business to be at the forefront of it , and take their idea and sell they to the world . this Sunday be World Suicide Prevention Day , and so many organisation and group will be work hard to highlight the need for all of we to work towards prevent suicide — group such as if U Care Share in the north - east , which will be run its " inside out " campaign , as well as national charity . I hope that member from across the House will help to spread the message that it be good to talk , to reduce suicide . as we await the publication of the national suicide prevention strategy — imminently , I believe — can we have a debate in Government time on the strategy and how we can prevent suicide ? on behalf of everyone here I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important awareness moment and give we all the opportunity in this place to thank the many local group that will be deal not only with this issue specifically , but with improve mental health and wellbeing and mental resilience in our community . I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State hear that there be a keenness to have a debate on the strategy when it be produce , and the hon . Lady will know the action she can take to secure one . with her legendary attention to detail , no doubt the Leader of the House have see this morning ' s report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies — an authoritative report show that so deep now be the class and regional difference in our society that social mobility have be reverse by more than 50 year . can we have a debate in Government time so that we can address the issue , particularly for poor family in the north of England whose child find it difficult to share in the success that this society allegedly promise they ? historically the UK have have slow social mobility over many decade ; that be improve , but there be more that need to be do in this area . that will only be help by people be able to get into work and make progress through work . that be why I support our reform on universal credit and why I think we should be celebrate get 4 million people into work , there be 1 million few workless household , and 1 million of that 4 million be disabled people who would not have have the dignity of a pay packet have we not bring in those reform . focus on opportunity for young people , we should celebrate our emphasis on alternative route other than pure , traditional university degree : apprenticeship and ensure that young people be in education , employment and training . it have be a very stressful week for parent worried about their child return to school and whether they be safe . now I understand that the list produce by the Department be inaccurate and that some school have be tell that they should close yet they be not on the list . I remember the confusion , chaos and further distress that be also cause when the Building Schools for the Future list go out . this affect all our constituent , so it be not a party issue . it would be helpful if the Leader of the House ensure that the information the Department for Education send to all our constituent be clear on what be happen with the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete issue across the country . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . if we want to reduce the stress level that people be undergo , we must ensure that information be timely and accurate . I know that that be what the Secretary of State for Education be look to achieve . I will raise this with the Department and ensure that the list , if there be error on it , be deal with . I will also ask for a point of contact for Members , if they have not already be issue one . in situation such as this , it be important to be able to get hold of someone to confirm whether something be accurate , or when local issue crop up that need to be resolve quickly . I shall certainly recommend that the Secretary of State do that . I know that she want to ensure that member have answer to question they want to raise and that her Department be deliver a good service to this House . on Wednesday 6 September the Public Accounts Committee , of which I be a member , publish its report into local authority - administer covid support scheme in England . it find that , of an estimate £ 1 . 1 billion of fraud so far , less than 2 % have be recover . while school , local council , hospital and prison be crumble due to a lack of funding , do the Leader of the House agree that this Government failure urgently need to be address , and will she commit to provide Government time to discuss it ? it be incredibly important that we learn the lesson from the pandemic and the Government be very keen to do that . what I would say to such criticism be that all fraud be bad and we want to ensure that it be eliminate and money be recover , but at the time the Government be right to act swiftly to ensure we be able to keep household and business go . the fact that we have now be able to show that our economy have recover the swift out of comparable nation have demonstrate that that approach be right , whether through the furlough scheme , the bounce back loan or the other support that be provide to business . where we can recover fund we will and we must ; it be appal that organisation , particularly bogus business , commit fraud at that particular moment of national crisis and need , and we should throw the book at those people . I also welcome my hon . friend the Members for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) and for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) to their new Front - Bench role . the shadow Leader of the House allude to the fact that this time last year , the Leader of the House back her " hope candidate " and say : " who can lead ? who can build that team and deliver for our country ? who do have that bold economic plan that our nation need ? . . . I ' ve see enough to know … the person I ' m go to put my faith in " . of course , that person be not the current Prime Minister but the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . can we have a debate in Government time on the achievement of her " hope candidate " ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I . I will give he some achievement of the right hon . member to whom he refer — I hope that he have give her notice of his question , but I suspect that he have not , because I be sure that she would have be here to tell he herself . I think that we ought to recognise that she deliver a lot for this country , include some of the first from - scratch trade deal . she serve in many department , include the Treasury . I would be very happy to have a cup of tea with he and talk about the thing that she do in the service of this country . my constituent who work in the Defence Equipment and Support depot in Beith will engage in strike action on Monday over the unequal application of bonus payment , which have create a two - tier workforce . strike action be unprecedented in DE & S , which currently supply important equipment to Ukraine . I have raise this matter with the Secretary of State for Defence . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her support for those worker , and will she urge management at the depot to provide parity and fairness for their workforce ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point and for highlight the impact that such action may have . our commitment to Ukraine and the other partner we work with be unwavering . it be obviously critical that we have a good supply chain to ensure that they be able to continue their heroic effort . I do not know the detail of the dispute . she say that she have already raise it — quite rightly — with the Secretary of State for Defence , but if she think that there be anything else I can do to assist she in resolve the situation , my door be always open . in 1958 , 65 year ago , thalidomide be first market in the UK . it be withdraw three year later in 1961 . one hundred thousand baby be affect worldwide ; 90 % be miscarry or stillborn . sadly , of the 10 , 000 victim who survive to birth , few than 3 , 000 be alive today , and about 400 of they be in the UK . can we have a debate on why it take this House until 1972 , 11 year after the withdrawal of the dangerous drug thalidomide , to hold a debate on that issue and get compensation for the victim ? I be sure that this House would want to ensure that mistake make over dangerous pharmaceutical be never repeat . the hon . Gentleman have place on record those historical event and the fact that , through this House , compensation be after many year quite rightly pay to those individual . he will know that there be currently live inquiry , not least — I look at the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on the Labour Back Bench — on the infected blood scandal , which have take at least three decade to get an inquiry and to be resolve . I be very proud that this Government set up that inquiry under a former Prime Minister , and to have be the Minister who kickstarte and establish , with Sir Robert Francis , the compensation study . I recently give evidence to the inquiry ; the hon . Gentleman might like to read it to reassure himself of the commitment of this Government , and of the whole House — I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North for her diligent campaigning on the issue — to protect patient where thing go wrong . we want to do right by they . that be a great segue into my question . the Leader of the House appear before the reconvene infected blood inquiry in July , along with the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Paymaster General , so she know very well the view of Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the inquiry , and the feeling of those infected and affected . could she give an undertaking to this House that , as soon as the final report be publish by Sir Brian , there will be an oral statement on the Floor of the House and the Government will come forward with an action plan to implement all the recommendation in the interim report , which they have have since April this year , so that finally people can receive the compensation they have be long due ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this , and I will certainly make sure that the Minister for the Cabinet Office have hear her request . I would think it very unusual for such a huge piece of work that be of such great interest to so many in this House not to be accompany by a statement on the matter . even if we include those who have be affect , as well as infect , it be a comparably small number of people , but we often forget that what happen to these individual could happen to all of we . it be not risky behaviour or something they be do ; they simply be access healthcare , or they be the partner of someone who have access healthcare , be infect and do not know they be infect , and people have be impact in many other way . this affect all of we — it affect everyone in this country — and that be why it be particularly important . it be a pleasure to see the Leader of the House back in her place . as member will know , each week I bring a focus upon persecution across the world , and this week we focus upon Pakistan because of what be happen . on Monday past , an Ahmadi mosque in Karachi be destroy . in August , eight christian church in the Punjab be burn in just one day . in July , two hindu temple and a shrine be destroy in Karachi over a weekend . Pakistan be experience a surge of violence towards religious minority , fuel by a rise in blasphemy allegation . will the Leader of the House join I in request a statement on those case and recommend way in which the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office can increase monitoring at this time ? on behalf of the whole House , I thank the hon . gentleman for again use business question to shine a spotlight on the issue of persecution and intolerance of freedom of religion and belief around the world . I thank he for shine a spotlight on what be go on in Pakistan . he will know that , historically , in term of finance and people on the ground , our strong bilateral mission from the fcdo be with Pakistan , and we will have great influence there . I shall certainly make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear what he have say and ask he to follow up with the hon . Gentleman ' s office . could I please raise the issue of the high street chain Wilko ? it strike I that the current outcome , which include the loss of half the store and all the job for a paltry sum , 13 million quid , be suboptimal when we consider the fact that the chain turn over more than £ 1 billion last year , and there be business across the UK , include one in Berkshire , that would have be happy to bid more than £ 100 million for the whole business and all the job . I accept that this be a commercial consideration , but could the Leader of the House please represent my concern with the Department for Business and Trade ? we should be prioritise job over creditor . I thank my hon . friend for raise this very sad situation , which I know will be of concern to many individual . it be obviously a commercial decision , but this be a very worrying time for employee ; the swiftness of the timeframe be also worry . on behalf of my hon . friend , I will write to not only the Department for Business and Trade but the Department for Work and Pensions , which in similar circumstance have also provide support to the workforce . I will ask both Departments to contact my hon . friend ' s office , and I thank he on behalf of many member of this House for raise this matter , as it will affect a number of part of the country . hmpps update before we come to the statement , I remind the House that the individual in question have be charge with criminal offence , and that the House ' s sub judice resolution apply to those charge . member should therefore take care to avoid refer to the detail of those charge or say anything that assume the guilt or innocence of the individual concern . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . with your permission , I would like to make a statement on the escape from HMP Wandsworth yesterday morning , Wednesday 6 September , of a prisoner by the name of Daniel Abed Khalife . Daniel Khalife be remand in custody at HMP Wandsworth on 28 January this year , have be charge with offence allege to have take place in 2021 while he be serve in the armed force . as you have already indicate , Madam Deputy Speaker , the House will understand that , while a live criminal investigation be in progress , there be limit on what I can properly say . Daniel Khalife will be catch in due course and will face a trial . nothing should be say in this House or elsewhere that might prejudice those proceeding , so let I assist the House with what I can say . at approximately 7 . 30 am yesterday , a vehicle that have make a delivery to the prison ' s kitchen leave HMP Wandsworth . shortly afterwards , local contingency plan for an unaccounted prisoner be activate and , in line with standard procedure , the police be inform . the prison be put into a state of lockdown while staff attempt to determine Daniel Khalife ' s whereabouts . the vehicle be stop and search by police after the alert be raise . strap be find underneath the vehicle , which appear to indicate that Daniel Khalife may have hold on to the underside of it in order to escape . the search be under way . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be give every assistance to the Metropolitan police ' s operation to recapture Daniel Khalife and return he to custody . as have be make clear by the Metropolitan police , there be no reason to believe he pose a threat to the wide public . yesterday , when I be first brief on this grave security breach , I speak to the governor of HMP Wandsworth and senior hmpps leader to establish what be know about the escape and seek assurance about the immediate measure be take to ensure the security of the prison . I make clear then , and I reiterate now , that no stone must be leave unturned in get to the bottom of what happen . who be on duty that morning , and in what role , range from the kitchen to the prison gate ? what protocol be in place , and be they follow ? secondly , I have order an investigation into the categorisation decision by hmpps : be all relevant matter take into consideration in determine where in the custodial estate Daniel Khalife should be hold ? in both case , I have ask for the preliminary finding to be with I by the end of this week . an assessment will then be make of what can properly be put into the public domain . I have also decide that there will need to be an additional independent investigation into this incident , which will take place in due course . I now turn to the wide prisoner cohort hold by hmpps . in the light of these event , I have order two urgent review : first , into the placement and categorisation of everyone hold in HMP Wandsworth and , secondly , into the location of all those in the custodial estate charge with terrorism offence . let I turn now to the issue of prison security . as the House will no doubt be aware , escape from prison be extremely rare and the number have decline substantially in the last 10 to 15 year . this have be due in considerable part to sustained investment in improve physical and intelligence security . that include investment of £ 100 million in the period since 2019 on measure , such as enhance gate security with x - ray body scanner , which have drive up the find of drug , weapon and other contraband , include tool that could be use to aid an escape from prison . hmpps have also enhance intelligence and anti - corruption operation in prison , work more closely than ever with partner , include the intelligence agency . this have involve productive initiative , such as set up the joint counter - terrorism prison and probation hub . Daniel Khalife will be find , and he will be make to face justice . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Justice Secretary for advance sight of his statement , and I reiterate our support for the police and all those who be involve in the search to recapture Daniel Khalife . I very much hope that that search will be bring to a swift and successful conclusion so that the rest of the legal process may take place . this be an extremely serious matter , and it have highlight catastrophic and multiple failure in respect of not just this case , but our wide criminal justice system . it simply beggar belief that a man be hold on suspect terror charge be able to escape prison by cling to the bottom of a food delivery van . the simple question for the Justice Secretary today be : how on earth be that allow to happen ? how be such an escape even possible ? nothing that he have say to the House so far get we remotely close to a full answer to that central question . I know the Justice Secretary will say when he respond to I that it be early day , that he have order the relevant investigation and that they must have some time to conclude . but with respect , it give I no confidence that the Justice Secretary have today arrive with a list of basic question that , frankly , he should already know some of the answer to and be able to share with the House . I note with complete agreement both what he say and your direction , Madam Deputy Speaker , that nothing must be say either in the Chamber or anywhere else that may prejudice any future trial or indeed the live operation that be currently under way , but the circumstance and the fact of the escape itself be a separate matter that be of legitimate and urgent concern to this House and to the wide public . that be separate from the nature of any and all charge that will form the basis of future trial or other investigation . the Justice Secretary really do need to give much full answer to the House , rather than a list of his own question . on the circumstance of the escape itself , can the Justice Secretary at least tell the House when he respond how many staff be on duty at Wandsworth prison yesterday ? be he confident and can he tell we that all the relevant search be do and , where there be failure , the number of protocol that he be concern may have be breach ? will his investigation assess the quality of the training and the experience of prison staff at HMP Wandsworth , and will he be bring in any additional expertise to assist with those matter while he be get on top of the fact himself ? in respect of the categorisation of this particular prisoner , why be a suspect terror offender hold at a category b jail while on remand , despite many other suspect and indeed convict terrorist be hold in the high security estate ? why be Daniel Khalife move from Belmarsh to Wandsworth ? can the Justice Secretary at least tell we whether a risk assessment be undertake before any such move take place ? that be at least a yes or a no answer . can he tell we how many similar suspect be in category b or indeed in HMP Wandsworth , and what be the timescale for such an assessment ? in relation to the two urgent review , may I say to the Justice Secretary that , with respect , it should be a relatively short exercise to get across the detail of the total number of the current prison population at Wandsworth ? the fact that he have not come to the House with even that small amount of detail be unacceptable . on the location of all those charge with terror offence , will the Secretary of State tell we the total number of individual who be consider to be in that category as of today , across the whole prison estate ? when will that urgent review of those number — I hope he can share the total number — take place ? I accept that he can not share any detail , but do he know the number of individual who might be of concern and may need to be move to a different location , give yesterday ' s event ? I note that the Secretary of State have order a full investigation , but can he say anything about the term of reference for such an investigation ? what timescale do he envisage for that long , full investigation ? on the matter of independence , can he provide some reassurance that he will ensure that it will not be a case of he , and other who be ultimately responsible for this failure , mark their own homework ? what consideration have he give to the independence and identity of who might be carry out that investigation for he ? the development of the past 24 hour have show we yet another example of the conservative mismanagement that have mean they be unable to run vast swathe of the public realm , whether that be school , threaten our child ' s education and learning , or now with a terror suspect on the loose . ultimately , one of the main function of a Government be to keep their citizen safe , and on the Secretary of State ' s watch , court be in crisis , probation be in crisis , the Crown Prosecution Service be in crisis , and prison be in crisis . when will he get a grip ? I begin by welcome the hon . Lady to her place , and I will try to address the point she raise . I be pleased to hear her remark about not want to prejudice a future trial , because we must keep in mind that escape be a criminal offence . she ask whether there will be inquiry into the staff on duty and the quality of training . absolutely ; that be precisely what I have ask to take place . she ask whether additional expertise be in place . yes , that be already in place in Wandsworth at the moment , assist with the investigation . as I indicate in my opening remark , I want to know who be on duty in the kitchen and at the gate , what protocol be in place , and whether it be apply . if it be not apply , why not ? those be all question I have ask , and she can be assure that they will be answer . on timing , I have already indicate that I want to have the preliminary answer on my desk by the end of this week . I will then be able to make a decision , consider all relevant information , about what can be put into the public domain . however , we have to proceed carefully and on the basis of evidence . I say that because the hon . Lady raise a question that be factually incorrect . she ask why Daniel Khalife be " move from Belmarsh " , but he be never in Belmarsh . with respect , it be important that we do not proceed on the basis of misinformation , and I hope I make that point clear . I absolutely understand the proper public interest and point that be be raise . that be fine , but if the hon . Lady need to ask I any question about matter of detail , she have my number and she can call . on who be hold on the category b estate , that be exactly what I have ask of the inquiry that have be set up . I mean no discourtesy , but I think the hon . Lady may have misunderstood what I be suggest by mean of an inquiry . this be not an inquiry into the number of prisoner in Wandsworth , which be a matter of public record ; this be about whether the right people be in Wandsworth , and whether those wandsworth prisoner should be there or elsewhere . that be what need to be answer . on the independence of the investigation , of course that be right , and that be precisely why I have order it . in summary , this be a grave incident — the hon . Lady be right about that , and plenty of the point she raise be perfectly legitimate and we will get answer as quickly as possible . but we need to proceed on the basis of evidence , coolly and calmly , so that when Daniel Khalife be catch , as he will be , he will be bring to justice and justice will be do . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , for his courtesy in give I notice of it , and for the characteristic thoroughness and care with which he have approach this matter . he be clearly go into the detail in a careful and measured fashion , which be the right approach . I also congratulate the shadow Secretary of State and welcome she to her post . first , the Secretary of State have accept the need for an independent element , and the Justice Committee have more than once refer to the need to avoid the Prison Service mark its own homework . will he bear in mind in that regard the work that have already be do by his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison and probation in relation to Wandsworth and other prison ? they have real expertise , and I hope he will avail himself of it . secondly , in relation to his wide inquiry into the prison situation , when on the face of it there have be a significant improvement in gate security , the failure of gate security on this occasion be all the more alarming . it be a matter of record that there be an issue with staffing at Wandsworth and with retain experienced staff across the Prison Service . we have a large number of comparatively inexperienced staff . evidence submit to the Justice Committee ' s inquiry on the prison workforce demonstrate concern over level of training in some establishment . will the Secretary of State make sure that those point be fully take on board as part of a serious review of prison workforce on the back of this ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to these matter . as I have indicate , the inquiry must take its course and the issue of staffing will no doubt be consider . necessarily , we can not go into a huge amount of detail , but what I can say be that in all prison staff take on different role . on the specific issue of staffing at the security end of the prison , the position be staff and the security post be occupy . the question be whether protocol be apply , and indeed whether people do what be expect of they under those protocol . we need to get to the bottom of that urgently . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . my party hope Khalife will soon return to custody . leave aside the extraordinary manner of the detail of the escape , some more immediate question arise . Mr Khalife may have be believe to pose a low risk to member of the public , but he be clearly think to present a considerable risk to his service colleague and to national security . as such , it will strike people as extraordinary that he be be hold under category b condition , rather than category a , pende any trial . what be more extraordinary be that prison inspector report concern in January last year about the measure in place at Wandsworth to prevent escape , after find what they believe to be potential shortcoming in physical aspect of security locally on site . it be also alarming to hear the former head of security at Wandsworth , Ian Acheson , on the radio this morning say that , on any give day , some 30 % to 40 % of frontline staff be unavailable for duty at the prison . the Prison Officers Association have highlight that some £ 900 million have be strip out of prison budget in England and Wales since 2010 , which will leave more prison than just Wandsworth overcrowded and under - resource . the Prison Officers Association ' s national chair have call this morning for an urgent review of how prison across England and Wales be run . I appreciate that the Secretary of State have announce two separate strand of inquiry from the Dispatch Box , which I be sure will be welcome , but will he expand the scope of his questioning to allow for that inquiry into how the Prison Service across England and Wales be run , in the light of the concern that have be express ? may I deal with the hon . Gentleman ' s second point first ? prison officer do an extremely important job , and I will of course listen carefully to what the Prison Officers Association have to say about this matter . I have already have a meeting — albeit predate this incident , as he might expect — and that productive and constructive relationship will continue . let I deal with the hon . Gentleman ' s point about categorisation , because I be instinctively sympathetic to his point about why this prisoner be in the category b estate . that be precisely what I want to have some information about , but we have to proceed with caution . although we be not go to look at the detail of the specific offence , section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000 be an either - way offence . there be other offence that be either - way . it be not the case , and never have be since the Terrorism Act be create 23 year ago , that everyone charge with a section 58 offence would be in the cat a estate . be that to happen , it would turn the whole system of categorisation on its head . it be an offence I have prosecute many time in the past . we need to ensure that we be look at the detail of what he be charge with and the specific risk or otherwise that he may have present . I echo the comment of the Chair of the Justice Committee about the tone and thoroughness of the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , and particularly his commitment to leave no stone unturned . however , the presence of strap on the underside of the vehicle would seem to indicate that some planning be involve . as well as the Lord Chancellor ' s question about protocol and staffing arrangement , be there any implication that the prisoner may have have some assistance with the escape ? I hope that my hon . friend will not take it as a discourtesy when I say that nothing have occur to he about line of inquiry that have not occur to I , my ministerial colleague and member of HMPPS . all line of inquiry be be consider , include all those that I be sure be occur to hon . member . People in Tooting be alarmed that someone could escape from what be suppose to be an extremely secure prison . a few month ago , I raise the issue of low staffing level with the Justice Secretary because I have concern after speak to Battersea and Wandsworth trade union council . my parliamentary question reveal that , shockingly , only seven prison officer turn up for a night shift last December to cover 1 , 500 inmate . that be unworkable and unsafe . staff be have to do double shift , with officer face violence and abuse and struggle with their mental health . that make staff retention impossible . in those circumstance , mistake will happen . will the Secretary of State list the meeting that he have hold with the prison leadership since I raise the alarm many month ago ? will he also tell we the average number of staff per shift at Wandsworth prison and the number of staff force to take " payment plus " overtime shift ? sadly , this escape be not the only significant challenge that the prison have face recently . in November , it be without water for six day . prisoner could not wash and have to rely on bottled water . there be an endemic problem throughout our public service owe to 13 year of Tory mismanagement . school building be crumble , our prison be overstretch and fall apart and our NHS be under - resource . when will the Government get a grip and sort it out ? the hon . Lady begin by express concern on behalf of her constituent . she be right to raise that . I invite she and her constituent to consider the remark of the Metropolitan police that the prisoner be believe to be a low risk to the community . it be important to stress that in the House . it be an overriding and overwhelming priority for I to increase staff number , and I be pleased that they be increase . of course , I want they to go up far , but it be positive to note that , since 30 June , there have be an increase of more than 700 full - time equivalent band 3 to band 5 staff — wing officer up to custody manager . [ Official Report , 11 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 6mc . ] I accept that we have far to go . however , it be also encourage that the resignation rate be come down . I do not suggest for a second that the work be complete — it be not , and it be perfectly fair for the hon . Lady to raise those point — but we be move in the right direction . on the third point , the preliminary indication , subject to the investigation that I have order , be that the security post be man in Wandsworth at the time of the incident . we now need to know , give that they be man , what go wrong . I welcome the assurance that the Secretary of State have give about the investigation that will now follow . can he update the House on what step the Government be take to increase security across the prison estate as part of the Department ' s £ 4 billion investment in increase the number of prison place ? it be worth step back and reflect for a moment on the fact that the programme of infra - structure investment in prison be second in Government only to HS2 . a huge amount of investment be go into our prison and I have see what that can do . I have be to HMP five Wells and HMP Fosse Way . Millsike be under construction . those be modern , safe , secure , decent and rehabilitative prison . on my hon . friend ' s specific point about security , as part of the overall scheme , we have put £ 100 million into enhance gate security and x - ray scanner that can check for illegally conceal contraband . that be drive up seizure and drive down violence in prison . of course there be more to do , but that investment be yield significant result . I wonder whether the Secretary of State be surprised that Daniel Khalife be allow to work in the kitchen , a role that I understand be for trust inmate ? that be precisely a question that have occur to I and that I want answer , by the end of the week I would hope and expect , but certainly in very short order . this escape be incredibly serious and leave many question unanswered . it be report by the Metropolitan police on social medium yesterday that the escape prisoner have link to Kingston . my constituent and those of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , naturally , will be very concerned . I appreciate that the Secretary of State will be limit in what he can say about the operation to apprehend the prisoner , but I would be grateful for any statement he can make to provide reassurance to my constituent and resident across south - west London . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise those point on behalf of her constituent . we all have a duty , which she will uphold as well as anyone else , to ensure that people be not alarmed . I draw her attention and that of her constituent to the Metropolitan police ' s remark that the man should not be approach , but that he be consider to be low risk , and not a large risk to the wide public . I remind the Justice Secretary that this be a very serious incident . any prison escape be serious , but we should put it in perspective . I remember when he be very young , and before I be shadow prison and police Minister , back in 1966 , the notorious spy and traitor George Blake escape from Wormwood Scrubs , in a startling and disgraceful lapse in security . he live to his mid - 90 and finish his day in Moscow . in the present circumstance there should be a thorough inquiry , but all of we interested in the justice system know that prison overcrowding be a serious problem . the excellent man and woman who work in our prison be under tremendous stress . this be a serious incident . I hope the guy get capture quickly and face real justice , but can we please do something about the prison estate and the good people who man it ? I agree with all the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . every prison Minister and Secretary of State , whether Labour or Conservative , will say that prison officer do a wonderful job , and it be a hidden service . I believe that to my bootstrap , which be why I meet the Unlocked Graduates in Leeds to thank they personally for what they do , and why we host a reception recently at no . 10 . it be an incredibly important job that be beyond most of the people in this room , if I dare be so bold . it require huge judgment , courage , integrity and decency . I pay tribute to they all . along with other resident in south - west London , my constituent be concerned about this incident . I welcome the action of the police , and I be sure the man will be swiftly detain . I visit Wandsworth Prison in June , and as I arrive , six member of staff be be take to A & E because they have just be assault . the prison officer ' union have be raise staff shortage and inadequate training with I and other for a long time . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s inquiry . I welcome the fact that the point where the person abscond be staff . however , I hope the Secretary of State will still look into the staffing shortage in Wandsworth and the inadequate training , which have be raise by prison officer , who I agree do a fantastic job in very difficult circumstance in Wandsworth , a very overcrowded prison . I thank the hon . Lady for raise those point . she be right about staffing ; we need to drive it up . as I indicate , we have do thing that make a meaningful difference — I be down at HMP Isis speak to a band 3 officer about precisely that — such as roll out body - wear video across the estate . that be an incredibly important tool to dial down potentially volatile situation and , if they be not dial down , to capture the evidence to ensure that justice be do . that be make an enormous difference to bring down violence . it be also have an impact on recruitment and retention — the resignation rate be go down , and the number we be recruit be go up . the point that she make in principle be fair , but equally , in that spirit of fairness , it be important to note that there be some very positive trend that we will build on and develop far . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement and his update to the House this morning . he may well have see the medium speculation that Khalife be miss for around an hour before prison staff notice . be that correct ? if it be , what reassurance can he give that procedure will be tighten up , not just in this particular prison but across the estate ? that be one of the very issue that be be look into urgently . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his response , which we all welcome . it be obvious that he take this issue very seriously . I understand the tremendous pressure our Prison Service be under . however , can he confirm that the decision to hold this man in a low - security prison , after previous escape from another prison , be not to do with space or pressure , but rather base an assessment that have turn out to be severely flawed ? a review of the procedure use be need urgently . may I also ask the Minister if the finding of the inquiry that will take place can be share with other Administrations , for instance the Northern Ireland Assembly and the policing and justice Minister ? the hon . Gentleman ask a really probe question and make an important point , if I may say so . the decision about where he be hold be base on an assessment of the circumstance relate to that individual and the alleged offending , not about whether there be space in the category a estate . there be space to put he there , if that have be the right assessment . what we have to get to the bottom of be this : be that exercise properly conduct ? that be one of the review . to his second point , about whether the finding can be share , my strong instinct would be that whatever can be share , should be , so that across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland any learning can be absorb as broadly as possible . prevent : Independent Review with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the Prevent programme . the terrorist threat to the UK be unrelenting and evolve , and , as I note early this year in announce our refresh of Contest , it be rise . to combat that , the tool to counter terrorism must evolve . Contest , our counter - terrorism strategy , have four pillar : prevent , pursue , protect and prepare . prevent aim to stop people become involve in terrorism by tackle radicalise ideology at their root . it be an early intervention programme that rely on frontline public service across society , include healthcare , education , local authority , the police and civil society . I be deliver wide - range reform , follow the reappraisal of its effectiveness by the independent reviewer of Prevent , Sir William Shawcross . Prevent need to well understand the threat we face and the ideology underpin they . ideology be the lens through which terrorist see the world . our agency work closely with lead expert , practitioner and former extremist . they all say that ideology be pivotal . terrorism be fundamentally an attack on our idea and freedom , so we must attack the threat at its source and disrupt those who seed and spread extremist ideology . non - violent extremism can certainly lead to violence , but it be a problem even where it do not . it undermine our value and divide community by dilute our sense of share belong . that be why I have be so disturb by the sort of incident we have see recently in Batley , Wakefield and elsewhere . we do not have blasphemy law in Great Britain and we must never succumb to their de facto imposition by a mob . individual under the Prevent duty must challenge those who enable " permissive environment " for radicalisation , where grievance , identity politic and disinformation be use to whip up fear and division . six month on from the publication of the independent review of Prevent , I be pleased to report significant progress to the House . we be on track to deliver our commitment to implement each of the independent review ' s recommendation in full . so far , work closely with the Minister for Security , we have complete 10 out of 34 recommendation , and 68 out of the 120 task . I expect to have implement at least 29 of the 34 recommendation a year after the review ' s publication , and the rest shortly thereafter . today I be publish the first major revision of the Prevent duty guidance since its introduction in 2015 . subject to the approval of Parliament , it will come into force on 31 December this year . the guidance be the key text underpin the way in which Prevent be deliver by the range of partner most central to its success . the change reflect the spirit and the detail of Sir William ' s recommendation . I accept the review ' s recommendation for threshold to be reset to ensure proportionality across all extremist ideology . ricu , the Research , Information and Communications Unit , which provide analytical and analysis product on behalf of the Home Office , be identify by Sir William as a concern . in the past , it have fail to draw clear distinction between mainstream conservative commentary and the extreme right . People such as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) and Douglas Murray express mainstream , insightful and perfectly decent political view . People may disagree with they , but in no way be they extremist , and Prevent must not risk any perception of disparage they as such again . from now on , all RICU product which report on extremist trend , and in future theme , will clearly state the purpose of such reporting and be proportionate . our new Prevent duty training , available on gov . uk , will highlight the importance of ideology and enhance understanding of the driver of Islamist and extreme right - wing terrorism . we will pilot and roll out new face - to - face training alongside the new guidance so that organisation across the sector have the appropriate skill to spot genuine radicalisation . a new security threat check will ensure that strategic decision making relate to Prevent be inform by the current threat landscape and local threat , and that activity be direct accordingly . the review recommend great care over terminology . the term " susceptibility to radicalisation " should be use where appropriate , and the word " vulnerability " only where necessary . many people who embrace extremism be affect by a range of complicate factor in their life , but there be almost always an element of personal decision making in the choice they make . they must not be absolve of responsibility when they choose this path . I have strengthen the operational delivery of Prevent by switch to a regional delivery model that provide support for all local authority in England and Wales . the 20 area in England and Wales with the high risk rating will receive multi - year funding . I have also provide Home Office Prevent expertise to Scotland . it be vital that Prevent do nothing actively to undermine its mission , for instance by support group that work against the freedom and value that we stand for . due diligence check on partner deliver Prevent in local community have be strengthen follow input from the Commission for counter Extremism and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . Prevent , and public authority such as the police , should not fund or work with those who legitimise extremism , such as CAGE or MEND — Muslim Engagement and Development . that be completely at odd with Prevent objective . extremist and anti - prevent group have wage mendacious and malicious campaign to try to discredit Prevent as anti - muslim to undermine its work . through the work of a new specialist unit , we be now work to rapidly rebut and counter inaccurate information about Prevent when it appear . the independent review find that Prevent have not take antisemitism seriously enough , so specialist intervention provider have now be recruit to well address the prevalence of antisemitism in those refer to Prevent . they will work directly with those susceptible to radicalisation to deconstruct their extremist mindset and tackle it head - on . this approach be complement by new research allow Prevent to explain the pernicious and often subtle indicator of antisemitism . like any public service , Prevent need independent oversight , and I expect the new standard and compliance unit to be operational and publicise online early in 2024 . it will process complaint from both the public and practitioner , and will take instruction from Ministers to conduct investigation and publish finding . the unit will be deliver by the Commission for counter Extremism , and will be answerable to Ministers on the Prevent oversight board , chair by my right hon . friend the Security Minister . extremist of whatever disposition , be they neo - Nazis or Islamists , must know that in our fight against they , we will never be hamper by doubt or cow by fear . ensure that Prevent be fit for purpose be critical to deliver that message , and to win that fight . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . I join the Government in pay tribute to the work of our security service , our counter - terrorism police , the myriad different agency — local community , council and education body — that work on the Prevent programme , and all those who work so hard to keep we safe . extremist try to divide we and to undermine our democratic value and our respect for one another . extremist ideology be a stain on our society : they feed on fear and vulnerability to promote hatred and violence . we have see appal terror attack , from the attack on child in Manchester and the attack in Fishmongers ' Hall to the attack on our own Jo Cox and David Amess . a strong and determined response to extremism and terror threat and threat to our national security , wherever they come from , be immensely important to our safety . the Contest strategy rightly include " prevent " , " pursue " , " prepare " and " protect " , and it be right for the Home Secretary to update the House on the approach to extremism and to the Prevent programme . however , on a day when there be grave unanswered question about how a terror suspect could possibly have escape from prison , before trial , hide on the bottom of a food van , I be astonish that she say nothing about Prevent and prison . we have unanswered question about how on earth the escape could have happen , and also about staffing level . there have be repeat warning of 30 % staff absence and shift not be cover . those staffing issue be a matter for Prevent as well . the independent review highlight an issue about which countless other report have warn : the lack of sufficient action on deradicalisation and Prevent in our prison . prisoner be actually leave prison more radicalised than they be when they go in . refer to extremism - relate training for staff , Sir William say : " it become clear during the review that this training be frequently cancel due to staff and resource shortage … I be far tell that there have be delay to staff begin Prevent training and to extremist prisoner begin rehabilitative programme . these delay be attribute to staffing and resource issue " . the Government have be warn repeatedly about this , and I be concern about the complete lack of reference to it in the Home Secretary ' s statement . will she please tell we what action be be take , and also what action be be take for those due to be release from prison — those who be due to be deliberately release , that is , as oppose to those who escape ? Contest have warn that " four of the nine declare terrorist attack since 2018 be perpetrate by serve or recently release prisoner . " the joint inspectorate warn just a few month ago that there be not enough senior official in place to oversee the 120 prisoner with terror - relate conviction who be due to be release by next March . what deradicalisation and Prevent work have those 120 prisoner undergo in prison , and what provision be in place in the community to ensure that there be no risk to the public ? we can not afford any suggestion of failure by the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice to take national security treat in prison seriously . today ' s report from the border inspectorate be highly critical of Border Force ' s failure on insider threat , say that organisational structure for address " insider threat be find to be confuse , with complex inter - relationship and unclear line of accountability " . what action be the Home Secretary take to deal with insider threat ? there be also no mention of any action on online radicalisation or the use of artificial intelligence . online radicalisation be raise by the independent review , and we know that generative AI raise further challenge and question . we have identify potentially serious legal loophole in our ability to take action against those who choose to use generative AI to try to radicalise people . what action be be take on that ? we have ask the Home Secretary about this before . will she agree to labour ' s proposal to tighten the law ? the majority of the extremist threat our security agency deal with be islamist extremism , follow by far - right extremism . other warped ideology have also drive violent threat , but the main focus must continue to be on islamist extremist threat . I welcome the emphasis on antisemitism , but the agency , the police and the Prevent programme need to follow the threat of violence and hateful extremism wherever the evidence go , rather than have to follow any political hierarchy that have be set . Neil Basu , the former counter - terror chief , have say that we also need to make sure there be early intervention and prevention . he say : " if we set the bar for Prevent so high that it can deal only with those who be already radicalise , we will have more terrorist , not few . " finally , what action be be take in response to the former counter extremism commissioner ' s report on hateful extremism , publish some year ago ? be the Government ever go to respond to that or update the counter extremism strategy , which be now eight year out of date ? we need that action . Prevent be not a whole counter extremism strategy . we need broad action if we be to keep our democratic value safe . I thank the right hon . Lady for her response . she raise several point to which I will respond . first , I pay tribute to all the professional and expert in our agency who work day and night to keep the british people safe from the evolving , change and , indeed , increase risk we carry when it come to terrorism . they work in many way of which we will not be aware , but they make huge sacrifice . I be very proud of the progress that they and this Government have make in recent year . that include the opening of a new counter - terrorism operation centre that be now up and run and deliver state - of - the - art counter - terrorism work between all the agency — be they the police or other — work in one place in a co - ordinate and streamlined way . I be pleased to visit CTOC recently . our Contest strategy be relaunche early this year and , since 2018 , 39 attack have be disrupt by the brave man and woman work in law enforcement and other agency . that huge amount of work be go incredibly well . of course , the threat remain substantial , which mean an attack be likely . there be no room for complacency on this issue , which be why I be wholly committed to focus on the effective delivery of Sir William Shawcross ' s recommendation . that be why I have come to update the House today . the right hon . Lady mention prison and , of course , William Shawcross refer to the threat of terrorism , extremism and radicalisation within the prison estate . in fact , recommendation 27 make it clear that well and more training be require for prison officer , which be why I be very pleased that there have be significant progress on the roll - out of the new terrorism risk behaviour profile . this new prison - base product be lead by the Ministry of Justice , build on the recommendation make by Jonathan Hall and reiterate and build on by Sir William . that roll - out will be complete by the end of the year . the value of this new tool be that prison officer will be well train . they will have more skill and more tool at their disposal to well identify terrorism and the risk that it pose within the prison estate . that be a direct response to recommendation and concern that have be raise . I refer the right hon . Lady to the previous statement make by the Lord Chancellor on the broad issue . I be receive regular briefing on the circumstance lead to the escape of Daniel Khalife yesterday and on the wide - range operation involve the police , Border Force and the agency to track he down . the right hon . Lady also mention resource . let I be clear that funding for counter - terrorism be as high as it have ever be , and Prevent funding have not be cut . however , we be redirect resource to well reflect the evolve threat picture , so that our resource be direct at the priority inform by the intelligence picture . for example , I be very pleased that all local authority now have a dedicated Home Office point of expertise and contact . that have be roll out throughout England and Wales . it will properly equip those in the local authority sector to have proper training and a connection , a dialogue and a meaningful relationship with the Home Office so that they can be well tool up to respond to radicalisation and the risk relate to Prevent in the community . the right hon . Lady also say there should not be a hierarchy of threat . of course , there be no such hierarchy . Prevent be ideologically agnostic , but we must always be clear about the fact . when I last update the House , for example , 80 % of live investigation by the counter - terrorism police network be islamist in nature , and MI5 be clear that islamist terrorism remain our predominant threat , account for 75 % of its case load , yet only 16 % of Prevent referral in 2021 be islamist . that be a fundamental problem that Sir William identify and that I be address right now through these robust and wide - range reform . Prevent be a security service , not a social service . the role of ideology in terrorism have too often be minimise , with violence attribute to vulnerability such as mental health or poverty and to the absence of protective factor , rather than focus on individual responsibility and personal agency in the choice that these people be make . I be implement all the review ' s recommendation , and I have commit to report back to the House on progress . I be clear that Prevent must focus solely on security , not on political correctness or appease campaign group . its first objective must be to tackle the ideological cause of terrorism . we will not be cow by fear , and we will not be hamper by doubt . I be very grateful to the House for hear this update . it be welcome that the Home Secretary have come to the House today to update we on the report . I be sure the whole House and the country will be grateful that all the review ' s recommendation have be accept . she be absolutely right to say that it be about individual make individual choice and that there can be no excuse relate to their background or the indoctrination that have take place . this be about freedom of speech , too . People should not be frightened that Prevent intrude on freedom of speech . it be about keep this country safe from terrorism . I could not agree more with my right hon . friend . he be absolutely right that this be about national security and public safety . it be not about appease campaign group or the fear of offend particular minority group . it be not about put community cohesion ahead of the interest of national security . I be absolutely clear that our Prevent professional in all the relevant agency must work without fear or favour and in the interest of national security first and foremost . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Shawcross review have find that the Prevent strategy have fail and lose its way . the very system that aim to identify would - be terrorist have allegedly fund a group whose head be sympathetic to the Taliban . that failure be why the Home Secretary be come to the House today to make a statement . I be sure she will agree that public confidence in the Prevent strategy have be shake to its foundation . we know that those previously refer to Prevent go on to commit terrorist act and that the terrorist threat across the UK remain substantial , which mean that an attack be likely . what long - term work be be do to monitor those who leave prison after serve sentence to ensure that they do not remain a threat to our community and national security ? islamist terrorism be the primary terrorist threat , but it be not the only one . the fact that the Wagner group be to be declare a terrorist organisation have to be welcome , but there must be ongoing concern and vigilance in respect of extreme and far right incel movement . question about how to tackle online radicalisation remain . will the Home Secretary assure we that there will be full co - operation with the devolved nation as we seek to tackle the scourge of terrorism ? what guarantee will she provide that Prevent will have the necessary budget and resource to fulfil its central aim and mission of prevent terrorism across the UK ? finally , the Home Secretary talk about well training for prison officer , but staff crisis in our prison be rife . training be all well and good , but it be important that the prison estate have the proper manpower level to play its part in deradicalise and rehabilitate those who have be convict of terrorist offence , so that when they be release they can go back to their community without cause alarm . what action be she take to address the staffing crisis in our prison , as part of this strategy ? the hon . Lady talk about historical Home Office funding of group link with extremism , an issue identify by Sir William in his landmark report . I be appal when I read that Prevent have historically fund group that have legitimise extremism or have work with group whose value totally contradict our own . that be not a proper use of public money , it undermine Prevent ' s objective and it be potentially a threat to national security . I will ensure that that never happen again . as a result of that issue identify in the report , we be run a full - scale audit of all counter - extremism funding arrangement and we will immediately terminate all agreement that fall below our standard . we be work closely with the Commission for counter Extremism to ensure that we strengthen our oversight and vetting procedure to ensure that taxpayer ' money always go to the right group . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement and her strong leadership on this issue . the additional measure take by the Ministry of Justice early this year to crack down on the activity of terrorist prisoner be very welcome . be she able to provide an update on any assessment the Home Office , in conjunction with the MOJ , have complete on the success of those measure so far ? the Prevent duty apply to those work in the prison estate . Sir William identify a particular concern relate to the threat of radicalism and terrorism occur and evolve within the prison estate , which be why he make a recommendation . I be pleased that we have make significant progress on roll out the terrorism risk behaviour profile , which will now enable prison officer to have well training so that they can well spot , and be more confident and knowledgeable about , the sign of radicalisation , extremism and terrorism within the prison estate and be thereafter empower to take step to mitigate and eliminate that risk . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . in ensure that Prevent be fit for purpose , the Home Affairs Committee look at the Prevent review and we be concern about the under - representation of the islamist threat in Prevent referral when compare with right - wing extremism referral . some 22 % of the 4 , 915 referral relate to islamist radicalisation and 25 % relate to right - wing extremism . however , 75 % of those who end up on remand for terrorist offence be categorise as islamist and 22 % be categorise as extreme right - wing . when the Security Minister appear before our Committee , he say that the Government need to look at the reason for that , and that they be go to look at the misallocation and seek to make sure there be well representation of the actual threat . will the Home Secretary therefore set out what work have be do to ensure that we have that proper representation in those initial Prevent referral ? we see exactly that incongruity and disparity between the intelligence picture and the security threat picture , and what be happen on the ground among the Prevent community in the referral that they be make . that be a problem , which be why today mark an important step forward in rectify that erroneous approach . the new statutory guidance will focus increasingly on ideological cause of terrorism , and there will be much more stringency and robustness in look more rigorously at the ideology behind extremism . importantly , we be also adopt Sir William ' s recommendation of include the security threat check , which consist of specialist question that be directly inform by the intelligence and Home Office analysis of the security and counter - terrorism picture . that will form a series of principle that will help to ensure that Prevent referral on the ground properly reflect the threat picture . come from Greater Manchester , I know tragically what the end result of islamist indoctrination can be for a community , so I welcome very much the re - emphasis on tackle islamist indoctrination . in the Home Secretary ' s reset of the Prevent system , will she explain to the House how she be go to take local community with she ? she know that one criticism of the Prevent system as it stand be that it also stigmatise whole community , not just those who be extremist . what confidence be she go to give to diverse community across the UK ? it be not right to say that Prevent be anti - muslim . Prevent be about ensure that Islamism , extremism , radicalisation and violent ideology about hatred , evil and value totally at odd with our be stamp out . the vast majority of british Muslims make a valuable contribution to the UK , but we must be courageous in call out permissive environment and tolerance for extremism among some part of our community . that require a fearless approach , one that be not cow by political correctness or fear of upset particular group in the name of community cohesion . if we want to save life , we need to take a united approach , but a robust and fearless one to call out Islamism when we see it . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and for the strength of character and delivery of purpose as well . she refer to discussion about possible support for Scotland . she be right to be strong on radicalisation . step have be take to combat that in Northern Ireland , where the rewriting of history be lead to the glorifying of terrorism for a new generation — that must be combat . will she confirm the effectiveness of Prevent in all area of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? as I mention when we refresh our Contest strategy , we be see a concern level of terrorism relate to Northern Ireland . that be a very sorry reflection of unacceptable behaviour , which must be condemn in the strong possible term . our agency work UK - wide and we be always work closely with the Police Service of Northern Ireland and other authority at the local level , to ensure that all lead be follow in the full possible way and measure be put in place to mitigate risk as they emerge . however , as we see early this year , that threat be a concern and we must remain vigilant to it . EU Programmes this be a momentous day for british science and technology as we have negotiate a great landmark deal , design in the UK ' s good interest . a hard - fight - for deal that will allow the UK ' s world - lead scientist , researcher and business to participate with total confidence in both Horizon Europe and Copernicus , it give the good and bright of the UK ' s scientific community access to the world ' s large research collaboration programme . it mean british scientist and business can co - operate with researcher not just in the EU , but in Norway , New Zealand and Israel , expand the reach and impact of british science and technology to every corner of the globe . with Korea and Canada look to join these programme in the future , we be open the door to far pioneer , international collaboration with a grow group of country . we be always clear that we want to associate with Horizon and that be why we have it in the trade and co - operation agreement . however , as hon . member know only too well , we be not able to commence those negotiation over the last two year because the European Union have link it to the Northern Ireland protocol . however , our Prime Minister ' s Windsor framework break the deadlock and allow we to commence negotiation . we say all along that we would accept only a good deal , which be why we do not take the first deal on the table . instead , we pursue a bespoke agreement that deliver for british taxpayer , researcher and business . we will not pay for a second of the time in which we be not member of the programme , and our deal protect and benefit hardworke taxpayer through a new clawback mechanism . what be more , our scientist and researcher can benefit from Horizon today , mean they can immediately bid into the programme , with certainty over funding . all call in the 2024 work programme , include those that open for bid this year , will be fund through our association to Horizon , while the few remain 2023 work programme call will be fund by the UK guarantee . but this be not just about Horizon . we need a bespoke deal that give we access only to EU programme that would benefit the UK , not to those that would not . listen to voice from our world - lead fusion sector , we will not be join Euratom . instead , we be invest an additional £ 650 million straight into our cutting - edge fusion sector , assist our journey to become a science and technology superpower by 2030 . when I first start in this role , I make it my no . 1 priority to listen to the voice and view of the scientific and tech community . what I hear loud and clear be how essential associate to Horizon Europe be for the sector , and I be delighted that this Government have now deliver on that . the deal we have negotiate have be warmly welcome by the whole of the scientific community . it give it the certainty it need to continue deliver long - term research and innovation , and it will enable it to change people ' s life and have a truly global outlook . member do not need to take my word for it ; today ' s announcement have be support by Universities UK , the Russell Group , all four of our prestigious national academy , lead tech business , include Airbus and Rolls Royce , and countless more . the deal be not just about funding and support for university , business and scientist . it be a deal that have a real - world impact for people and community throughout the UK . this deal be set to create and support thousand of new job as part of a new generation of research talent who be attract to the UK and work across the globe . the deal we have negotiate will allow the UK to continue to play a lead role on the international stage in solve the big challenge that we face , from climate change and the race to net zero to cure for cancer , dementia and other life - threaten disease . alongside this deal , the Government be proudly back our science and tech community . we have commit to invest £ 20 billion in research and development by the next financial year . that mean more record funding on wide priority , from harness the power of AI to improve our public service to tap the potential of quantum computing . we will continue to strengthen our collaboration with country beyond Europe , build on the success of the international science partnership fund we launch early this year , to deliver our truly global science approach with global benefit . today we take another giant leap forward in our mission to make Britain a science and tech superpower . I be confident that scientist and business be ready to seize the moment . the horizon could not really be bright for british science and technology . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in a past life , I be a university lecturer . I have to say that , if one of my student have turn up to hand in an assessment two year late , I would not have be terribly amused . I do not think anyone could be very amuse by the two waste year here . on science policy in this country , we have a classic case of lion be lead by donkey . Britain be bless with many of the world ' s great innovator : the developer of the covid vaccine and the internet , cancer specialist and green energy pioneer . we be home to those who be at the vanguard of research , yet they have be fail by this Conservative Government time and again . they have leave our researcher lock out of the world ' s lead scientific collaboration project , worth over £ 80 billion , for the past two year . it have be like keep Lionel Messi or England ' s Lucy Bronze out of the World cup . we have already see report of cancer research specialist leave the UK to pick up Horizon project elsewhere , while we have lose two year of funding round . that vital ground have be lose and can not be revive , despite a promise in the Conservatives ' 2019 manifesto . that be what happen when bluster and division be put above deliver for people . the Secretary of State speak about the link with the Windsor framework . it be this Conservative Government who negotiate the Northern Ireland protocol in the first place and it be little wonder this Government have preside over such anaemic economic growth . so although the long - delay confirmation of association to Horizon and Copernicus will be a relief , it can not undo the damage that have already be cause and leave serious question for the Government to answer . in her statement , the Secretary of State speak about some of the cost , but can she set out the precise quantum of the financial contribution to Horizon and the other scheme in the year ahead ? have any financial disadvantage be accrue through miss out on the first year of the scheme ? could she confirm how the UK ' s position as an associate member of Horizon impact our ability to strategically shape the future of the Horizon programme ? how do we ensure term that be advantageous for our research community ? I hear the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation , the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , chuntere early . he will probably recall his contribution to this debate : " of the three — euratom , Copernicus and Horizon — Euratom be probably the hard of all to reproduce … I still think of they very much as a bundle . we would like to remain in all three , but , if I have to pick one , Euratom be the one " . those be his word , but the agreement do not include association to Euratom . can the Secretary of State outline what risk that might impose for international collaboration and energy security ? in short , today ' s announcement be long overdue . it leave vital question outstanding . what I have no doubt about be that our brilliant scientific community can rise to the challenge and make the good of the hand that they have be deal . I have no doubt either , I be afraid , that we can not go on be hold back by this chaotic Conservative Government who be a drag anchor on so much that make Britain great . I welcome the right hon . member to his position . I be delighted that the opposition have finally get round to appoint a ministerial team to shadow the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology — it take they six month , but they do get there in the end . I be also delighted that the right hon . Member have acknowledge the significance of this Government deal , but to address his point about the delay , he know only too well that it be the European Union that link Horizon association directly with the Northern Ireland protocol and it be this Government and this Prime Minister who manage to unlock that with the Windsor framework . it be also this government who bridge that gap with the Horizon guarantee , spend more than £ 1 billion . as soon as the framework be agree , I be the first to hop on the train to Brussels to see the commissioner to ensure that we could kickstart that negotiation . at the time , I be eight and a half month pregnant , but I think that that be vital to our sector and I be glad that we be able to deliver today . one thing I will not do be apologise for the Government want to get a good deal . let we remember it be the Opposition who call for we to accept the deal on the table back in March . if we have do that , we would not have this good deal for our taxpayer , our business , our scientist and our researcher . I have already — it be in the statement — clarify the point that we will not pay for one moment that we be not associate with Horizon , but I reiterate that point . to answer some of the right hon . member ' s other question , the cost will be £ 2 billion a year and , as I have say , we be inject £ 650 million directly into our fusion sector . on Euratom , the Minister of State for Science , Research and Innovation agree with I that it be the right strategy to proceed with Horizon and Copernicus , but not with Euratom . it be not just we who believe that . the Fusion Industry Association have welcome the UK Government ' s ambitious package of £ 650 million . Ian Chapman have say that he welcome the clarity over our future relationship . in fact the association make representation directly to we in order to ensure that we put the money directly into our sector . this be a great deal for Britain , for the taxpayer , for business , for scientist and for researcher . we believe that our country have the potential to be a science and tech superpower . it be a shame that the opposition do not . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . science do not recognise border , and everyone win when the good UK scientist can work with the good in the EU and around the world , so this be a huge and positive announcement and have be greet with delight and relief not just by the science community in the UK , but across Europe and beyond . my Select Committee , the member of which be in the Chamber , will examine the deal in detail , but may I congratulate the Secretary of State , her Minister and the whole of the Government on what seem to be a shrewd agreement that , for example , allow we to win grant even beyond our own financial contribution ? will she confirm that Horizon funding be available not just to academic institution , but for innovation by british industry ? have she consult formally the UK Atomic Energy Authority , which run our fusion programme , about not participate in Euratom and , if so , what be its view ? do she agree that , with the reputation of british science as high as it be , with the science budget double as it have over the past 10 year to £ 20 billion a year by next year , and with now the opportunity of rejoin Horizon opening up , this be a golden opportunity for the UK to advance our status as a science superpower ? I could not agree more with my right hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee . I be delighted that he have welcome this announcement today . in relation to his comment on Euratom , we do consult widely the sector and the UK AEA , which have welcome this publicly , along with many stakeholder , include the business community , which will also benefit from this announcement today . I call the SNP spokesperson . the SNP welcome this move , which will provide much - need certainty and kickstart new research opportunity for key strength area of the scottish economy , include life science . the Prime Minister himself have say that rejoin this EU scheme be " critical to a bright economic future " . but the SNP believe that rejoin the EU as a full member state be much more critical than that . unfortunately , I know that this government , and probably the incoming Labour Government , strongly disagree with that , to the detriment of Scotland . Securing Horizon association be a matter of press importance . we must not forget that university and member of the research community in Scotland have miss out on their share of the all - important funding provide by the € 95 . 5 billion european research and innovation programme since the UK Government ' s decision to pursue a hard Brexit . we be disappointed that Euratom be not go to be pursue and be be take separately . although we welcome the funding , I think we all agree that it be much well that we work in conjunction with our european neighbour . Scotland have also be lock out of Copernicus , so what be the status of re - enter that and , indeed , the Erasmus + scheme ? we will not be rejoin the EU under this government because we believe in democracy . on Euratom , the good people to listen to are the sector themselves , who tell we directly and clearly that they would be well off with the money go straight to they and that be what we have do . we have listen to the sector involve and we have deliver . this be a fantastic deal that create many opportunity for business , scientist and researcher . it be not to be confuse with Erasmus , which the hon . Member raise . that be a separate scheme . in fact , it be this Government , and I personally when I work in the Department for Education , who establish the ture scheme , which be well than Erasmus because it be global in nature and support those from different background . perhaps I could declare an interest : in my previous job , I be one of the six European Parliament rapporteur involve in set up the initial Horizon 2020 project and the only one from the United Kingdom . what I learn during the five year that I work on that project be that this be not just for Nobel prize winner or mega company ; it be also for researcher at the start of their career , for innovator and for less well - know company such as Teledyne e2v in Chelmsford , which provide our eye and ear to world space programme . what I hear time and again be that , if we create an opportunity for scientist plus researcher and combine that with the ability to work across border and across discipline , we will have a formula that will often result in well innovation and more effective solution to some of the world ' s trickiest problem . may I thank the Prime Minister , his ministerial team and all those on the EU side — for there be many — who continue to press to have british science in these programme ? it be a great deal for Britain , for all of we on the continent of Europe and for all of we who live in this world . my right hon . friend speak a lot of sense . I thank she for her thank , and for those to the Prime Minister and the negotiate team , who have do we proud in bring home a deal that will truly deliver . I know that this be something that she have work on considerably in her time and be passionate about . I be very relieved by today ' s statement , hopefully just in the nick of time to avoid really serious damage to UK science . I welcome it , and particularly applaud the contribution make by the Minister for Science , which I know have be very important to achieve this outcome . we be gain associate membership of Horizon . to what extent do that give we a seat at the table to influence the future shape of the programme ? we will be able to lead project from 2024 . Most of the project open at the moment — 80 % to 90 % — be for 2024 , and we have the opportunity to lead they , so we can be at the forefront of this agenda . I warmly welcome the statement by my right hon . friend and constituency neighbour . it will be warmly welcome by the scientific community across the United Kingdom . it might even be describe as one small step for she but a giant leap for british science . will she comment particularly on Arctic science , as 78 university or other institution be look into matter in the Arctic at this moment ? they will warmly welcome the rejoining of Horizon , but I want to hear from she a particular commitment by the British Government to far support british science in the Arctic . it be such an important area with regard to climate change and other thing , and I want to hear that she and her hon . friend , the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation , who do great work on these matter , be fully commit to support british science in the Arctic . I know that my hon . friend and constituency neighbour do a great deal of work on this as Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , with a keen interest in this area . we have a fantastic track record when it come to Arctic science , be fourth in the world , and we want to climb up that league table . membership of Horizon Europe will certainly help we to achieve that . the announcement that the UK will rejoin Horizon be very welcome , and I be very pleased about it , but there be so much more to be do to restore academic co - operation with the EU , especially for student . the ture scheme be currently on a very sad par with the Erasmus programme . the University of Bath , as the right hon . Member will know , be a science university . as University of Bath student point out , the ture scheme require university to forecast where student will go before their bid for funding , a year in advance . it restrict the freedom of student and create a major challenge for university . will she work with the student ' union at the University of Bath to ensure that ture will work as smoothly as Erasmus ? I be more than happy to work with the Department for Education and co - ordinate a conversation with the University of Bath , but it be important to note that the ture scheme be different from Erasmus ; it be well . it be global in nature . it be also more inclusive . the statistic on the Erasmus scheme show that it particularly help child of family from middle - class background , whereas the ture scheme be much more accessible . I congratulate the Secretary of State and her Science Minister on a fantastic deal , which the scaremonger say could never happen . they say that we have to take what we be offer . we do not , and we have an excellent deal . later today , I hope that the Science Minister will respond to a debate that I will lead on fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva , a terrible genetic condition where muscle turn to bone , restrict the life chance of so many people , include some of my constituent who be here . there be a Horizon project look into this , but it be suspend because of covid . will we be allow to go back into that , even though we have have this period of time out , or be that something that the Science Minister would like to write to I about ? the Science Minister have agree to meet with our right hon . friend and discuss this at great length . I thank the Prime Minister for his timely and positive action follow my question to he yesterday . I welcome the news , which come as a huge relief to the research community after so much prolonged uncertainty . can the Secretary of State assure the chief executive of Cancer Research UK , who welcome the Government ' s decision and have express the hope that this deal will pave the way for continued UK participation in future european research programme ? the hon . member ' s question to the Prime Minister be indeed timely . I can give she that assurance . one of the key mission of Horizon Europe focus on tackle and address cancer , and that will continue to be key . I congratulate my right hon . friend on today ' s announcement that the UK will be rejoin Horizon . scientific research opportunity be vital to the development of our future industry . however , young people in rural part of the country , such as North Devon , often do not see the possibility of a career in science . will she work with Cabinet colleague to ensure that the opportunity from today ' s announcement extend right into our remote rural community ? it be vital that the opportunity that young people have be not cap by the location where they live or be bear , and that be certainly a key part of our levelling - up agenda . when it come to rural community , agri - tech be absolutely at the heart of the area that we be focus on . Horizon Europe will open up those potential collaboration across the globe . it be a relief that the EU have relax its rather self - defeat ban on the participation of british scientist and researcher in project with their european peer . I congratulate the Government on hold fast to achieve a deal that be in the good interest of british taxpayer . I will probe the Secretary of State on three specific point . she talk about the opportunity for the UK to lead project , but she do not say that the UK will have the right to determine the focus of project in the future . I be interested in that specific point . secondly , it be always important to have all the brain in the building work on project . will the UK have the opportunity post 2027 to see the Horizon programme expand beyond its exist member ? thirdly , will she reassure the House that the Government ' s commitment , which they have show year on year , to increase research and development spending will continue to focus on the competitive interest of the UK first and foremost ? we be confident that we will be able to use the Horizon programme to collaborate on area of share interest , include on strategically sensitive technology , such as chip and semiconductor . give the deal that we have agree , we will be able to play a lead role within the Horizon agenda , and help to guide it through and expand it . Future association would , of course , be for future government to determine , but I be confident that our scientific community will seize this opportunity , utilise it , and prove how valuable membership of Horizon Europe be . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss his interest in these topic . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . a few moment ago the Secretary of State inadvertently promote I to the position of Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee — our right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) would have be surprise and disappoint to hear that . I be in fact Chair of the Environmental Audit Sub - Committee on Polar Research , which be look into the Arctic . I wonder whether my right hon . friend might like to correct the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that it be only a matter of time , but I correct the record . I thank the hon . Gentleman and the Secretary of State for between they correct the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to correct the record follow my question to the Minister for Veterans ' affair this morning . since raise the matter , I have receive an update from my local council that afghan family expect this week be no long come from hotel to North Devon . this be an ongoing process , but we hope to welcome further refugee to North Devon in the near future . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for notify I of it . we have have a lot of correcting of the record in these point of order , but her speed in do so have be exemplary . Backbench Business Hormone Pregnancy Tests I beg to move , that this House note that child be bear with serious deformity due to the hormone pregnancy test drug Primodos , which be take by expectant mother between 1953 and 1975 ; further note that official warning be not issue about Primodos until eight year after the first report indicate possible danger ; observe that the report by the Commission on Human Medicines ' Expert Working Group on Hormone Pregnancy Tests in 2017 be inconsistent with other academic report ; note that the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review , first do no harm , find that primodo cause avoidable harm ; further note that the Government have refuse to acknowledge the recommendation by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review relate to Primodos family ; and call on the Government to fully implement the recommendation in the Independent Medicines and Medica al Devices Safety Review and to set up a redress fund for family affect by Primodos . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate . this be now the fifth time we have have a debate try to persuade the Government to grant justice to family affect by Primodos . I can not even begin to count the number of time in the last 12 year that this issue have be raise on the Floor of this House during Prime Minister ' s question , health question , business question and even Treasury question . time and again , this Government have insist that there be no credible evidence to support an association between Primodos and deformity . indeed , they have go to great length to try to prove that there be no association at all . I remind this House that primodo be a tablet give to patient by their general practitioner as a pregnancy test . it be 40 time — I repeat , 40 time — the strength of an oral contraceptive today . it do not take a scientist to imagine what a dosage of that strength would do to a foetus . baby be bear with severe deformity , baby who be now adult in their 40 and 50 and have live their whole life with these disability . may I take the hon . Lady back a few moment to the tablet that be give by the patient ' s GP in a national health surgery , pay for by the national health , and the doctor be pay by the national health ? it be not private clinic , but the national health give this drug . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . it be important to stress that it be the state , the NHS , involve in this . in July 2015 , I stand in this House and urge the Government to disclose all the evidence they have and to set up an independent inquiry . the then Minister , the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , hear those concern and agree to an independent review , which would be lead by an expert working group . however , first , the expert working group be not independent . in fact , many of the expert be find to have conflict of interest with the industry . secondly , the review of the evidence conveniently ignore several important study and then later say , " oh , well , there be insufficient evidence . " thirdly , the term of reference of the review have say that it would try to find a possible link . yet the report ' conclusion say it be unable to find a " causal link " . how exactly do the Government intend to find a causal link , short of test the drug on pregnant woman ? on that point about evidence , so many medical record be destroy . how be it possible to have an absolute evidential base for the report , when the evidence seem to have be destroy ? that be absolutely right ; I thank my hon . friend for that point . I be pleased to see the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) in the Chamber . I know that , as Prime Minister at the time , she read this report . I note that in a recent Sky News interview she say " I feel that it wasn ' t the slam dunk answer that people say it be . " I be truly grateful to she for commission Baroness Cumberlege to carry out a review that be both independent and credible . know what we now know , that the expert working group report be a whitewash , riddle with factual inaccuracy and conflict of interest ; know that study from Oxford University have prove that the evidence in this report be deliberately manipulate to reach its conclusion ; know that the Prime Minister of the day know something be not right and then commission another review — how can it be right that any Government can continue to use this report to hide their sin ? only a few week ago , lawyer use the report in court to defend their preposterous claim , and Ministers have use it as a basis to refuse and deny family redress . it be outrageous . I ask the Minister today : will she take a stand and do the right thing ? will she be courageous and read beyond the line of the ministerial briefing she have be give ? only then will she agree with I that the expert working group report be not worth the paper it be write on . the report stand in the way of justice for family affect by Primodos . I urge the Minister to work with we to set up an independent review of the scientific evidence , because I can assure she that only a truly independent review will find that there be an association between Primodos and malformation . the scientific evidence be vast . over several decade , numerous study and animal experiment have find that the use of such test can cause potential birth defect . in 2018 , a team of academic at Oxford University conduct a systematic review of all previous human study . they pool together the datum and find a " clear association " with several form of malformation . at Aberdeen University , Professor Neil Vargesson have be work on this issue for year . he publish research on zebrafish , which be genetically like human , and find that the drug cause deformity in embryo . more recently , he have be work with human tissue and have again find the same association . there be another groundbreaking study take place in Sweden , which will be publish soon . again , that will continue to show how much evidence there be regard this particular medication . I have no doubt that later in the debate the Minister will stand at the Dispatch Box and tell the House that there be nothing she can do for the Primodos family because there be no proven association , because she have be convince by the civil servant , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and other . would she like I to send she some of these study — or perhaps I can hand they to she today ? be she willing to confront the truth , or be she go to be like her predecessor , bury her head in the sand ? as long as she take that position , she be stand in the way of truth and justice . do my hon . friend share my concern that since the Cumberlege report there have not be progress on the vast majority of recommendation , and that for Primodos family time be run out ? this issue need to be address , and soon . I thank my hon . friend for that ; I will come on to the recommendation of the Cumberlege review . the Minister will know that in May this year , family take the issue to the High Court . it be a David and Goliath moment . Government and Bayer lawyer use the expert working group report to argue that there be no basis for a case . the family do not have sufficient legal representation , as the firm represent they on a pro bono basis pull out without any real explanation . it be not a fair hearing and be never go to achieve a fair outcome . the action to strike out thus succeed . have that not happen , the family would have be give their day in court — an opportunity to present new scientific evidence , to argue about the misconception of not use epidemiological evidence to prove causation and to scrutinise the heavily flawed expert working group . when the Cumberlege review come out , the then Health Secretary , the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , go on the television and apologise , but nothing have happen since then . for the first time , the Cumberlege review , know as the " Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review " or IMMDS , look at the historical evidence and the Government document , which show a cover - up , and conclude that primodo have cause " avoidable harm " and it be preventable . the UK regulator first receive a warning about the drug in 1958 . a definitive study be publish in 1967 , which link birth defect to the synthetic hormone in Primodos . Baroness Cumberlege conclude that primodo should have be remove from the market in 1967 . the UK regulator fail in its duty of care to woman : primodo be eventually withdraw in 1978 , 20 year after the first warning . let I be clear by say it one more time : an independent review find that primodo cause preventable and avoidable harm — the Government can not argue their way out of that — and recommend that the Primodos family should have redress . if the Minister want to waste time by argue that the Cumberlege review be not a scientific one , then we can have an independent review of all the scientific evidence , but let we not waste time ; let we get on with it . the family have already be through so much in their life . many of they have die , other be still very unwell . why do the Government still insist on put they through so much emotional and mental anguish ? I ask the Minister to look at the Public Gallery , where some of those family sit , have travel from across the country . their campaign have be lead by the amazing Marie Lyon , and they have be on a long and challenging journey , span almost five decade , to achieve justice . their story be at the heart of that justice . those in the Gallery be just some of the family , but there be many hundred more . justice delay be justice deny . the legal system have fail those family , and so far the Government have fail they as well . I ask the Government to include Primodos family in the redress scheme be deliver to the victim of mesh and valproate as a result of the recommendation in the IMMDS / Cumberlege review . this be once refer to as the bad medical fraud of the 20th century , and I believe that to be true . the family be entitle to seek reparation and redress , as the Cumberlege review make clear . the Minister have an opportunity . she have it in her power to dispense justice and grant the affected family the redress that they rightly deserve . the ball be in her court . rise — order . this debate be well subscribe , so my advice to colleague be to keep speech to around seven minute so that we can get the next debate in as well . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to the debate , and most of all I congratulate the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) on secure it . she have be an intrepid campaigner on this issue over many year , as have other member , include my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , who have another important debate later this afternoon on fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive . I be afraid I will not be able to attend , but I recognise the significance of that issue . I will focus on three issue in the time available to I . I echo the sentiment of the hon . member for Bolton South East : it be a pity that we have to be here yet again , make these argument to Government . up until recently , the Government have be able to say in debate that they could not do or say anything because a legal case be go through the court . well , that case be no long in the court , as a result of the decision take by Lady Justice Yip , so the Government ' s position today should be rather different . we will wait and see in the Minister ' s response . the other thing that the Government have do be hide behind the expert working group report , which the hon . Lady refer to . many issue have be relate to the expert working group report , which of course find in its overall conclusion that " the available scientific evidence , take all aspect into consideration , do not support a causal association between the use of hpt , such as Primodos , during early pregnancy and adverse outcome , either with regard to miscarriage , stillbirth or congenital anomaly " give that conclusion , it might seem rather strange to the Minister and the House that it be that very report that lead to my setting up the Cumberlege review . the reason I do so be that early in the report it say : " the totality of the available evidence from pharmacology , non - clinical , epidemiological and adverse event report datum be very limited and do not , on balance , support a causal association between the use of hpt , such as Primodos , by the mother during early pregnancy and congenital anomaly in the child . " to I , " on balance " mean that there be an argument against a causal link and , on the other side , an argument for a causal link , so the strength of the absolute decision that the expert working group come out with be , I think , a misrepresentation of what they have put early in the report . it be that sense of a balanced argument that lead I to call for the Cumberlege review . I thank the right hon . Lady for the work that she do as Prime Minister to set up the Cumberlege review . may I take she back to her first point ? she say rightly that the Government have be refuse to take forward the recommendation of the review because of the legal case , and that that case have now come to an end . be she aware that the defendant in that case , include the Government , have send letter to some of the applicant say that they must sign away their right to take forward any further legal case or be face with , and pressure by , million of pound in legal cost ? do she agree that for the Government solicitor to be part of that process , and threaten those family , be quite atrocious ? I be not aware of that . I be very concerned by the situation that the right hon . Gentleman set out , and I hope that the Government will urgently consider the position that their solicitor have be take on that issue . the second issue I will raise be the very important matter of redress . let I refer first to the timeline . the report that everybody look at as , in a sense , the first report of a potential causal link between Primodos and birth defect be , of course , the report lead by Isabel Gal in 1967 . there have be early indication of potential problem , and there have continue to be indication up until most recently . but it be not just that the NHS , through its various regulatory regime , do not act on the basis of the 1967 report ; later , even when primodo be be withdraw in other country , it continue to be available to woman here in the UK . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead rightly say in his intervention , we be not talk about some private clinic and doctor ; we be talk about GPs in the national health service . it be that issue of responsibility that the Government need to address ; that be important in relation to redress . the Cumberlege committee say that the independent redress agency " should be create base on model operate effectively in other country . " there be other country where this issue have be recognise and redress be available . a redress scheme be be work on for sodium valproate and for pelvic mesh . why not for Primodos ? I sincerely hope , now that the constraint of the legal case have be remove , that the Minister will be able to give a positive indication at the end of the debate that the Government will indeed consider redress for those who take Primodos and those who have suffer as a result . my final point be one that be make to I recently by Marie Lyon . woman who take Primodos , and who see their child suffer , often feel guilty ; they feel somehow that it be they and their fault . it be not . they have no reason to feel guilty at all . the drug be give to they by their GPs . I hope that the Minister will stand up and say very clearly that woman who take Primodos and whose child suffer be not in any way at fault and should not feel guilty at all . the fault lie with the NHS . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . I pay tribute to the work she have do and place on record my thank to the all - party parliamentary group on hormone pregnancy test , which be very ably lead by my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , who secure the debate . she demonstrate her passionate support for those affect by this great injustice that it have take far too long to put right . I would also like to mention the Association for child damage by Hormone Pregnancy Tests , lead by the redoubtable Marie Lyon , whom we all know and have meet , as well as our constituent who have be subject to the terrible effect of take primodo in their pregnancy . both the APPG and the Association for child damage by Hormone Pregnancy Tests have campaign tirelessly — this year mark a decade of the APPG — for countless family who have have their life irrevocably change by the impact of Primodos . locally , my constituent Marjorie Lancaster - Smith have long be an active campaigner within these group and have share with I at length the impact that primodo have have on her family . follow the use of Primodos during Marjorie ' s pregnancy , her daughter Tania have complex heart and intestinal problem , which she have have to live with her entire life . these have impact both Tania and the family as a whole , and she have have several period of severe ill health , operation and complication that have be life - threaten on several occasion . both Marjorie and Tania be miss vital medical record — in fact , there be none at all for the first few year of Tania ' s life or for Marjorie ' s pregnancy . it be therefore very difficult to have definitive proof of exactly what happen to they . this be a convenient omission — that be all I be go to say . this campaign have be incredibly try for many family , as they have often feel sideline and stonewall at every turn as they pursue justice for their now grow - up child . however , as this debate and those attend it today demonstrate , they remain determined to win their campaign for answer and redress . as Marjorie movingly put it in one of our recent communication , " nevertheless while there be breath in my body , I will continue to support my daughter and all our member who struggle every day because of the damage cause by Primodos . it be an absolute disgrace that they have not receive justice and that Bayer " — the pharmaceutical company that manufacture this drug — " and the Government think they can just walk away scot - free . " in the three year since Baroness Cumberlege ' s independent medicine and medical device safety review report , we have see long overdue work undertake to support those impact by pelvic mesh and sodium valproate , include the development of redress scheme , but primodo victim have have no action whatsoever — indeed , there have be total silence and avoidance . I echo the point make by the right hon . member for Maidenhead that as the legal process have now end , what end with it be the Government ' s late excuse for not pursue some form of redress . I hope that the Minister be able to reassure we that that position have now change . as other member have highlight , the all - party parliamentary group have three clear ask of the Government , which I hope the Minister will address when she respond : first , that the sensible and necessary recommendation make in the independent medicine and medical device safety review relate to Primodos be implement , include the creation of a redress fund for the family affect ; secondly , that there be an acknowledgment of and explanation for the present lack of implementation of those recommendation , because it have now be a long time — three year ; and finally , the withdrawal of the highly dispute finding of the expert working group , which my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East talk about . the right hon . member for Maidenhead have call those finding into question , and she explain in her contribution why she do that . family such as Marjorie ' s be long overdue answer for this miscarriage of justice , and they be all desperate to ensure that no further family suffer the adverse consequence of medicine they take or medical device they have be give by the NHS without have access to redress much more quickly . they have endure great suffering , and they will continue to experience that suffering as a product of the use of Primodos during pregnancy . that suffering can not be diminish , and it be a tragedy that they have have to wait so long and be so neglect , and that they be now be stall just when they think that finally , after year of campaigning , their suffering and the adverse effect have be recognise . I call on the Government to build on the statement of previous Ministers and finally take action to implement the recommendation of the review in full — critically , include the consideration of a redress scheme specifically for Primodos - affect family . I thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) and for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) and pay tribute to all the work they have do . I also thank Beccy ' s family , who I be go to talk about today and who I meet recently , and Beccy . beccy ' s family be sit in the Gallery today . this be Beccy and her mum Helen ' s story . in 1970 , when Helen think she be pregnant , she go to her doctor in Wrexham , north Wales , to confirm the pregnancy . at the time , Helen , aged 24 , be a mature student at a teacher training college . her husband have just get a job in Stourbridge , and she be live with her parent while complete her college course and need to be sure about the pregnancy as soon as possible . at the time , there be no reliable simple pregnancy test available . the GP say that there be a new product available , which would be the quick way to confirm the pregnancy . he produce two pill from his desk , for which there be no prescription . the drug be Primodos . these be to be take on consecutive day . if she be not pregnant , she would have a period within a few day . if she be pregnant , there would be no period . Helen ' s medical record confirm that she take Primodos in March 1970 . by way of an explainer about Primodos , the same component that be in primodo be contain in oral contraceptive , but at 40 time the strength of a contraceptive — 40 time . that put it in context . at the time , the doctor explain that the tablet come with a warning that they should not be use for pregnancy testing if the woman be not young and healthy . for example , they should not be use if the woman be old or suffer with condition such as diabete or heart problem . none of this apply to Helen — she be only 24 — so he decide that this would be the good way to confirm whether she be pregnant . Beccy be bear on 7 November 1970 . her mum have a normal pregnancy and a normal birth . Beccy weigh in at 8 lb 4 oz and appear a bonny , normal baby . at first , Beccy appear to develop normally , though she do have many scream session . as first - time parent , they do not think this unusual . Beccy seem generally fit and healthy , though it seem that she be not develop as other baby be . when she do not sit up , roll over or crawl at the expect time , her mum be tell that she be just be a fussy young mother , but as Beccy get old , it become apparent that she be severely handicapped . Beccy have never walk and have always be wheelchair dependent . she have curvature of the spine and some deformation of her hand and foot . she have an operation to try to straighten one of her foot when she be six . these problem be worsen as she get old . her mental impairment be very severe . she have have many diagnosis include cerebral palsy and autism , and this lead to very complex and challenging behaviour . she will often go day without food and refuse to co - operate with her carer . she have very limited speech , though it be believe she understand much more than she be capable of express . this can be very frustrating , and she be often reduce to very distressing screaming session . Beccy have be subject to innumerable test and procedure , include full genetic screening . there have be no explanation or cause for her impairment . primodos be the only common denominator . beccy live in a residential home with 24 - hour care . she can do virtually nothing without help . she do stay at home with her family regularly , which be very important to she and her family ; when she be at home , she rely on her family for all her need , but that be become more and more difficult with age . it be also very distressing for her mum , who be terrify about what will happen to Beccy when she be not around . I have nothing but admiration for Beccy ' s family , and it be a no - brainer that I would want to speak in today ' s debate , especially as I be not sure that anyone be give the family a fair hearing . the history of Primodos have be well describe , so I just want to highlight the issue that be press for this family . the first be the report of the expert working group in 2017 . the work procedure of the EWG and the conclusion of its report have be widely criticise , and the family be now seek a properly independent review of they . they believe that such a review be necessary for acknowledgement and justice for their daughter . they want to be listen to , and I want they to be listen to . my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and other have talk about the fact that these be not private clinic : it be the NHS that issue Primodos , so I think we be all look for that redress . I therefore want to raise with the Minister the necessity of a fully independent review of the expert working group report , so that all these family and individual can be hear . after all , the first warning sign of harm be in 1958 , when a Dr Edwards say that primodo can cause damage to the foetus in the early stage of pregnancy . it be not something that have just come to light ; it be something that have continually be raise as an issue . many more warning be forward to the Committee on Safety of Medicines , the UK regulator , from 1958 to 1967 . all of those warning be suppress by the committee and Primodos remain on the market until 1978 — 20 year after the first warning be receive by the UK regulator . these family want a fair hearing , and I believe they deserve one . I support the family 100 % in their call for the UK regulator to stop protect the drug company and start protect woman and child . so that be Beccy ' s story . it tug at the heartstring . not only have Beccy be rob of a normal life ; the effect on the family have be all - consuming . however , her story be not a one - off . the context to Beccy ' s story be simple : her mum take Primodos at the age of 24 to establish whether she be pregnant , because she be advise to do so . primodo contain the same component as oral contraceptive , as I mention , but at 40 time the strength . we do not have to be medical expert to work that one out . it be always a privilege to follow the hon . member for Stourbridge ( Suzanne Webb ) . I think the whole House be grateful to she for tell the story of her constituent and their daughter Beccy . it be so important that the Minister and colleague hear the impact that primodo have have on ordinary family , and why we need justice . I have be involve in this campaign for nearly a decade , but there be three woman who have be critical in lead it . the first be the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , who have chair the APPG , but who have also do many more thing : she have have more meeting , ask more question and send more letter , and we be all grateful to she . she be one of the great campaigner this House have see in recent time . like other , I also pay tribute to Marie Lyon and her husband , who have campaign with more courage and bravery than I have see from anyone outside this House in my time here . they be relentless , represent the interest of thousand of woman and their family . they be not go to give up until they get that justice , and neither should we . the third woman I want to mention be a lady call Sue Ilsley , the constituent who bring this issue to my attention . sadly , Sue die early this year . I actually get to know she before this , because she be a campaigner on mental health issue in my constituency ; as far as I be concern , she be the good campaigner . I think that be partly because her mental health have be impact by her experience of have take Primodos as a teenager and then give birth to a daughter — a wonderful daughter , but a daughter who have serious deformity as a result of primodo . she campaign on mental health , and later she bring the Primodos issue to I . when I use to speak to she , I could obviously feel her hurt and her anger , but just as the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say , I could also feel her guilt . she should not have have any . there be guilty people . the right hon . Lady mention the NHS , but I want to take it back : Schering , the original drug company that have now be buy by Bayer , bear a lot of the guilt . all the professional and the various medical regulator who have look at this issue over the year bear the guilt . we should not finish campaign until those guilty people be bring to justice . expert and judge have look at this recently and say , " they be not guilty " — well , they be . look at the evidence . the expert working group be shocking , and when the right hon . Lady be Prime Minister , she be quite right not to accept its report and to go for the review . we have a debate in 2019 in which that report be pull apart , and we have see the work of Carl Heneghan , Neil Vargesson and other , who have prove as scientist and statistical expert that the evidence be overwhelming . I be not a scientist or a medic , but I can sort of understand legal note , and when I speak in this House in December 2017 , I read extensive extract from the minute of meeting hold on 20 and 21 December 1977 at the Goldsmith Building , Temple , London . Schering , the original pharmaceutical company , be get legal advice from a Mr Clothier QC . I will not repeat that speech today , but I will repeat a few of the thing that I mention : " Mr Clothier feel , if the case be try to the end by a judge , the chance be that the company would be find to be in neglect of its duty . " this be in 1977 . " Clothier state that there seem to be a 5 : 1 chance that , if there be a malformation in a child and the mother take Primodos while pregnant , it be the fault of the drug " , — [ Official Report , 14 December 2017 ; Vol . 633 , c . 707 . ] so Schering know that . that be its legal advice decade ago . page 7 of the memo from the Berlin archive , which this note come from , state that Mr Clothier tell Schering that " there be 2 alternative open to we — one be to establish a voluntary scheme of compensation in which a justifiable claim will be give compensation without proof of liability but simply accept moral responsibility . " the company ' s review come to that conclusion . decade later , why have it not happen ? the other alternative be to take the claim to court . what I find really interesting , and what I want to focus colleague ' attention on , be that accord to the memo , the schering representative , Dr Detering , say that he be " hesitant in establish a scheme as the product be market world - wide . if we introduce this scheme in one country , we should introduce it in other country . " this product be market in 81 country . that be the issue here ; that be why there have be a cover - up for decade . that be why the medical regulator have stand behind the pharmaceutical company in question , because they know this would cost the company a fortune . its shareholder would have to cough up — possibly cough up billion . in my view , this be potentially one of the big cover - up of a pharmaceutical outrage that the world have ever see . the right hon . Gentleman be make an incredibly powerful contribution . do he agree that the recent drama documentary on Netflix , " Painkiller " , highlight just how this kind of issue happen and keep on happen , and that if we do not get to the heart of it — if we do not stop pharmaceutical company flood the market unregulate and drug get to patient , include our constituent , and do they damage — it be just go to continue ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . I do not see that particular programme , but I be sure she be right . the key thing be that we need to make sure that those large organisation be hold to account . that be our job , and we have be fail , because we have not hold they to account — we be still here , many year and many debate later . we have have a Prime Minister on our side , and these people still have not be hold to account . actually , the record show that this issue do get to court in America , and the drug company do a deal — as happen in american court — on a non - disclosure . why would a drug company do that unless it be try to cover up ? it settle in the american court , as I understand it , but on the basis that all the information be destroy and would never be disclose . those be the sort of thing we be deal with . the right hon . Gentleman be right to remind I and the House of that particular case . interestingly , an american law firm be help the campaign and be go to take the issue to court because of what have happen in America . for some reason , it pull out . what a surprise ! yes , what a surprise . all these example add up to show that a lot of powerful people be try to stop justice be do in this country and around the world , so I be so pleased to see cross - party support here today , in a very powerful way , to make sure that be put right . justice should come before the interest of the shareholder and justice should come before the professional reputation of the medical people on the regulatory body , and that be why the Minister should listen to the House today . absolutely we should see the recommendation of the review come forward and absolutely there should be the compensation fund . she should get up at the Dispatch Box today and announce that . the offer that be make , I be tell — I have not see it in writing , but I be tell an offer be make — be a £ 1 million total pot for all the family , which would have be a few thousand pound per family . I hope the Minister do not suggest that that will be good enough . we need a proper compensation fund , and we will not stop fight until that the Government provide for that . I hope she will respond to the answer from the right hon . member for Maidenhead to my intervention about why Government solicitor be threaten the family and tell they they have to sign agreement that they will not continue any legal action , which go exactly to the point that the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) make . I want to see that action and I want the recommendation of the review to be implement , but I want to put on the record that I be a bit suspicious . I think those involve be go to try to wriggle out of this in some way . they be go to make sure that no liability be mention , but they be liable . they know it in the 1960 and they know it in the 1970 : they be liable , and everyone who have be look at this case know it . I want the review to be implement because the family need the money now . individual be die , such as my constituent , and people be worried about their adult child and need their adult child to have the money now . I want the Government to go ahead and do that now . but I will tell the House what I really want : I want a public inquiry . I be feed up with these review . the review be great , but because this be such a scandal — a global pharmaceutical scandal — we want more . all this will come out only if the lawyer can not threaten people and have non - disclosure agreement , so I want an inquiry in public — a public inquiry so that these people can be properly hold to account once and for all . I , too , thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for bring this debate to the House . listen to all the powerful speech really make I proud of the Chamber . this be the Chamber at its good , with the powerful speech of my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . how distressing it must be for the woman and family harm by Primodos that they be still have to fight nearly five decade on . their road to justice have be long and cruel , and it be shameful that we find it necessary to debate this again . how can it be that the Primodos family be still not be properly support and compensate after all the evidence that have be present ? sadly , Primodos be not an isolated case , and we have see many example over the year of our regulatory body fail to keep patient safe from new medicine and medical device . in 2013 , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency list 27 medicine that have be withdraw on safety ground . the average time they be on the market be 11 year . I wonder how many time we will allow history to repeat itself . there have be report and review call for reform , and back in 2004 the Health Committee undertake an inquiry into the influence of the pharmaceutical industry . it note , of drug company , the " closeness that have develop between regulator and company " , which have " deprive the industry of rigorous quality control and audit . " it also highlight " the MHRA ' s poor history in recognise drug risk , poor communication and lack of public trust . " in 2020 , Dame June Raine , the chief executive officer of the MHRA , state that her agency have transform itself from watchdog to enabler , so I ask : have anything improve in the intervene 20 year since the Health Committee inquiry ? I fear not , and I think the time have come for another inquiry of similar scope and depth , only with more robust outcome . that be what we want — robust outcome . in 2020 , the independent medicine and medical device safety review , " first do no harm " , find that primodo , sodium valproate and pelvic mesh have all cause " avoidable harm " . the review show that patient have be let down , and it call for significant reform of the MHRA , due to its mishandling of safety concern . the review be clear that there be " gross under - reporting " of suspect adverse reaction and that " system be both too complex and too diffuse to allow early signal detection . " that theme keep come up , and in a recent meeting of the APPG on pandemic response and recovery we hear from Professor Carl Heneghan , who describe widespread problem with the reporting of adverse drug and device reaction , which continue to be a major cause of hospital admission . as many as 98 out of 100 adverse drug reaction go unreported . the APPG , of which I be a co - chair , be tell that the MHRA be run a system that be too slow to act and be beset by conflict . failure to act now will only lead to more harm . we also hear from the solicitor Peter Todd who be act for 43 individual who suffer blood clot as a result of the AstraZeneca vaccination . he describe how the Government ' s vaccine damage payment scheme be operate poorly and fail to help those who have be injure . not only be the current system unable to protect patient from harm , but it be fail to look after those who have already be harm . three year on from Baroness Cumberlege ' s landmark review , the Government have not fully implement its recommendation . in particular , we be still wait for redress scheme to be set up to meet the cost of additional care and support for those who be harm by Primodos , sodium valproate and pelvic mesh . why have that not be do ? this be a bleak and worrying situation , so I will try to end on a more positive note by commend the important work of the hon . member for Bolton South East as chair of the APPG on hormone pregnancy test . my final tribute must go to Marie Lyon , whose tireless campaign on Primodos over the decade have be inspirational . she deserve the full support and respect of this House , and I hope she and other harm by this drug can finally get justice . it be a pleasure to follow my near constituency neighbour , the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , and I join she and other in pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for her campaign over the year , and of course to Marie Lyon for her many year of campaign for justice for the family affect , include in my constituency . when Baroness Cumberlege ' s report " first do no Harm " be publish in 2020 , it finally offer those family hope of justice . it be unequivocal in find that those affect by primodo have " suffer avoidable harm " and should be entitle to support and financial redress . that should have be a landmark moment . the then Health Secretary apologise , appear to take responsibility and accept the report ' s verdict , so it be really so disappointing that , as I stand here today , no primodos - affect family have receive any compensation payment to address what they have be through . I want to emphasise the impact on individual life by look at two family in my constituency . Patricia McClellan have two child , give birth to a daughter in 1969 and to her son , John , in 1971 . she do not take any hormone pregnancy test before give birth to her daughter , who be bear healthy , but she be prescribe primodo when pregnant with John , who be bear effectively miss an arm . when doctor come to assess he a couple of day after his birth , Patricia describe be ask if she have take any medication during her pregnancy , to which she reply that she have be give Primodos . she say : " I will never forget the professor and the doctor take themselves into my bathroom for a private conversation . I feel powerless as event happen around I . " she have a succession of other disempowering , worrying and disappointing experience with medical professional while care for John of the type that be highlight in Baroness Cumberlege ' s review . she say : " I have feel as though I have be keep in the dark for over 40 year . I just want answer and justice for my son and hopefully some closure to the trauma , guilt and stress that have affect almost my entire life . " sadly , Patricia die in 2019 , never have receive the closure and justice that she need . John have live his whole life with the impact of his disability , and struggle with red tape and constantly have to go through the process to get recognition of his disability from the Department for Work and Pensions . he and his daughter Leah , Patricia ' s granddaughter , continue to fight for justice alongside other Primodos - affect family . Leah say to I : " be the daughter of a Primodos victim have also have its effect on I . I ' ve lose trust in our health official , I ' ve witness the lie that have be tell time and time again . see my father deteriorate mentally and physically because of this be worry for I . " in Leah ' s word , too many people affect by primodo " have sadly die since all this begin . it truly feel like the Government be just wait for they to pass on so this can be brush under the carpet . " the mother of one of my constituent be give primodo in August 1972 , two year after the stand joint committee for propriety in medicine say that it should have be withdraw . warning be there for year . why do that happen ? do my hon . friend agree that my constituent , and his mother and father , who be up in the Gallery today , require justice to be do , and to be see to be do by way of redress ? I could not agree more , and family across the country have be affect in such a way . the Pierce family be another family in my constituency whose whole life have be shape by Primodos . Edward and Janet Pierce ' s daughter , Louise , be now 54 year old . she be bear with several different disability , which the family be convince be cause by her mother have be prescribe primodo . Louise have a severe mental disability , profound hearing loss , and difficulty walk . she have always require full - time care , which have be provide by her parent for most of her life . she live at home with Edward and Janet until she be 50 . Edward say : " we didn ' t realise the physical and mental effect this be have on our life , it just creep up on you . " in 2018 , Janet have a serious stress - relate breakdown , leave she with short - term memory loss and lack of awareness , and Edward now act as her full - time carer . Louise go into full - time residential accommodation at the time of Janet ' s illness . Edward say : " I ' m sure you can imagine the devastating effect this be still have on all our life . " it be so disappointing that the Government reject the report ' s recommendation for a new independent redress agency , and instead again highlight the exist legal route for redress . the Government apologise to people affect by the Primodos scandal , but be offer they no support . those family lack the funding to be able properly to challenge the Government in court and get redress from exist legal route , and they be be offer nothing else by the Government . one of the specific recommendation in the Cumberlege review be the establishment of an ex gratia scheme for the victim of hormone pregnancy test , and discretionary payment to provide redress for the stress , anxiety , psychological harm and toll of fighting for recognition experience by those affect . that be what these family deserve . haven ' t these family suffer enough ? the mother who be give Primodos be in their 70 and 80 now , and some have sadly die . their child be mostly in their 50 . time be run out to give they the redress they deserve . the Cumberlege report state that " while there be disagreement between expert about whether primodo cause birth defect , the fact remain that thousand of woman and unborn child be expose to a risk that be acknowledge at the time . " primodo be deem dangerous enough to pregnant woman to be pull off the shelf , and Baroness Cumberlege find that those family have suffer avoidable harm . in such circumstance , and have commission the report , surely it be the Government ' s moral duty to implement that report ' s recommendation in full or , fail that , to explain how those family will get the financial redress they deserve . in July 2021 , the then co - chair of the all - party parliament group first do no harm respond to the Government ' s response , welcome their acceptance of four of the review ' s nine recommendation , and a further one in principle . it also say : " but we be deeply disappoint the Government have reject call for an independent redress agency or any redress for family whose life have be devastate by medicine or medical device . for those family justice have not be do today . " one of those co - chair , the right hon . member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , be now Chancellor of the Exchequer . he have the purse string and he could make those ex gratia payment happen . we have hear today from the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . she know this issue so well and her remark be powerful . I completely agree with the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) that the drug company must be hold responsible . ultimately , they should be the one who pay , but in the meantime it be time for the Government to stop hide and avoid their responsibility . it be time to act , and time to give these family the justice they deserve . I be move and sadden to read of the lifelong health difficulty experience by one of my constituent , whose mother be give the Primodos hormone pregnancy test . it be a story of school , work and family life disrupt over a period of decade , with frequent hospital visit , multiple operation , organ transplant , and a lifetime requirement to take a powerful concoction of immunosuppressant and other medication . I be hugely impressed and inspire to hear of this brave individual ' s determination to succeed in life despite that adversity , and I believe it be time that he , and other Primodos victim , be finally give justice . I pay tribute to all the campaigner who have continue their fight for redress over all these year , despite so many setback . the first warning of harm cause by hormone pregnancy test come as early as 1958 . over the follow period , many further problem be highlight to the regulator of the time , the Committee on Safety of Medicines . as we have hear , the 1967 study by Dr Isabel Gal provide a clear warning of the serious damage be do by those test , yet the sale of the product be not formally halt until 1978 , 20 year after the first safety alert , and 11 year after Dr Gal ' s ground - break study . since then , research have repeatedly indicate that take the test increase the risk of child be bear with debilitate and life - shorten birth defect such as damaged limb , brain damage and heart problem . a major review be conduct at the University of Oxford in 2018 , lead by the distinguished scientist Professor Carl Heneghan , director of the Centre for evidence - base Medicine . that study look at 26 hormone pregnancy test study involve over 76 , 000 woman . the researcher conclude that take drug such as Primodos increase the risk of birth defect by 40 % . they find " a clear association " between Primodos and several form of malformation . I be a biomedical scientist by background , and have read that review , what I find important be the way the researcher interrogate all the subsequent research that have be do , to ensure that there be no bias in any of the study they include , and they exclude any study that they feel be bias , use stringent statistical analysis . that make the review all the more important to listen to . I agree with the hon . Lady . it be a rigorous study , and it be a concern that in 2019 MHRA expert reject that report , argue that the quality of the study examine be poor and the method use to analyse they be " not in line with good practice . " as the hon . Lady point out , I do not think that be justify , and the Oxford team behind the research strongly refute the claim make by the MHRA . despite all the scientific study and research , campaigner have so far fail in their attempt to get compensation through the court , and they have not be able to establish clear enough evidence of causation . that have be a massive hurdle in many case over the year , not least in relation to tobacco , where it take decade of legal battle finally to show beyond doubt the causative link between smoking and cancer . one of the problem face by the family campaign for compensation in this case be that many of the scientific study of the ' 70 and ' 80 just do not meet the standard we necessarily expect in the 2020 . many time in this House the call have come from Back Benchers loud and clear to support the family , to listen to their story and to secure a fair outcome at last . the pressure that have come from this Chamber in so many debate help to secure the welcome decision by the then Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) to include Primodos in the independent medicine and medical device safety review , lead by Baroness Cumberlege . Baroness Cumberlege conclude that primodo be responsible for avoidable harm , that it continue to be use for year long than it should have be , and that a fund should be set up to support family with the cost of care . she be very clear that , in the face of grow concern , it should have be withdraw from 1967 . her report acknowledge the disagreement between expert on whether primodo cause birth defect , but she state " the fact remain that thousand of woman and unborn child be expose to a risk that be acknowledge at the time . that should not have happen . this be not a case of we judge the action of the past by the standard of today . this be discuss at the time , but not act upon . the system fail . " those conclusion from Baroness Cumberlege be truly damning . we have a government - sponsor independent review conclude that the system fail the victim and survivor of the Primodos tragedy . we must find a way to put that right and ensure that the family get the recognition and financial redress they deserve . I urge Ministers to listen to the House today and take action at last . we can not let this injustice continue . there be considerable evidence indicate that those woman who take the drug primodo — prescribe by their general practitioner — and who be pregnant at that time give birth to baby with serious birth defect , include deformity and disability , miss limb , cleft palate , brain damage and damage to internal organ . in some case , those woman miscarry or have stillbirth . this be a really important point : primodo be not prescribe ; no prescription be write . no pharmacist could look at the patient and say , " be this the right drug for that person ? " it be a drawer open , tablet take out and push across . I know it be not intentional , but the word " prescription " be slightly misleading . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention ; he be absolutely correct . the survive victim be now mainly in their 40 and 50 . many face a host of new medical problem and their body continue to suffer . many have die prematurely . the Public Authorities ( accountability ) bill — the Hillsborough law — would require public authority to admit responsibility follow adverse and mass casualty incident . 97 people die as a result of Hillsborough , and a scandalous cover - up go on for decade . would the hon . Gentleman agree with I , my constituent in the Gallery and other constituent in the Gallery , that it be time to end the cover - up and to establish how many people have die prematurely as a result of Primodos ? I would welcome that type of inquiry and the opportunity to view the outcome . despite serious concern be express by the eminent paediatrician , Dr Isabel Gal , in 1967 indicate the possible danger of Primodos , no official warning be issue about these drug until eight year later . there be strong and compelling evidence of systematic regulatory failure , demonstrate that the committee task with safeguard the health of pregnant woman fail in their duty of care . when I be elect in 2019 , I have never hear of the drug Primodos , and I suspect that be the case for many member . I have hear of thalidomide , as it receive far great coverage in the medium at the time . however , since then I have learn much about the horror cause by primodo — the devastating effect it have on unborn baby and on the baby bear with horrendous birth defect , and the continue , unimaginable tragic consequence for the mother and family whose life have be so cruelly affect by the drug . it be an absolute disgrace and shameful that those family have not only be utterly abandon and ignore by the drug company responsible , but also by successive government , who actively put up barrier to avoid accept the consequence of the manufacture , approval , prescribing and give out of Primodos . the drug company involve in the production of Primodos , the medical authority at the time who fail to protect people and successive government be all liable for the suffering cause to the victim of Primodos . they be all culpable and guilty of negligence , for fail to put right this horrendous wrong put upon innocent people . it can not be right that the fight for justice in these circumstance have be leave in the hand of a few determined individual battle against a huge global pharmaceutical conglomerate with million of pound of resource and our own Government . I highlight the case of my constituent , Nan . I have her permission to share her experience and the effect that primodo have on she and her daughter , Michelle . in January 1975 , Nan be a recently married , healthy young woman . feel sick and suspect she may be pregnant , she go to her GP for a pregnancy test , expect — as be normal at that time — a urine test . instead , her doctor give she two primodo tablet . by 1975 , primodo have already be ban for use as a pregnancy test for five year in Norway and Sweden . Nan put her utmost trust in the knowledge , experience and expertise of her gp . it be subsequently confirm that she be about seven or eight week pregnant . she have a very uneventful pregnancy during which she neither smoke nor drank alcohol . on 28 August 1975 , Nan ' s daughter , Michelle , be bear . it be immediately discover that Michelle be bear with a hole in her diaphragm , which have allow her bowel and spleen and part of her liver and kidney to be force in to her chest cavity , crush her lung . she be not expect to live , but through the exceptional skill of our national health service she survive and be now 48 year of age . throughout her life , she have endure numerous operation and surgery and long period of hospitalisation . she have suffer severe health issue , include breathe difficulty , a weaken immune system , numerous bowel obstruction and inflammatory bowel infection , and she have be unable to conceive child . the horrendous effect of the debilitate physical , psychological and medical condition and the extremely challenging health condition suffer by Michelle and her parent for the past 48 year just can not be adequately describe by I with word . when Michelle be bear in 1975 , Nan be unaware that the drug that she have be give to test for pregnancy have be associate with birth defect for the previous eight year . it be not until some two and a half year later that she read an article in the press that report on a number of case link birth defect to Primodos , include internal organ damage similar to that suffer by Michelle . since that time , Nan , along with many other woman , have be fight the injustice , where no one have ever be hold responsible for the damage cause to so many life through prescribe Primodos , which have be approve by the Government . in February 2018 , the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , announce that Baroness Cumberlege would oversee an independent medicine and medical device safety review . this review be , among other thing , instruct to consider the consequence of Primodos . one of the conclusion in the report by Baroness Cumberlege be that primodo should have be withdraw from the market in 1967 , after the first report by Dr Gal . however , the Government refuse to accept responsibility for the effect of Primodos without a prove causal association , but admit later , in a Sky tv interview , that there be a possible association . there be a moral duty for Government representative on the Committee on Safety of Medicines to protect patient , but they fail in their duty of care by suppress the evidence of harm cause by the drug . even today , the Government continue to deny that they suppress evidence , while support the flawed conclusion of the 2017 expert working group . the damage to individual , life and family cause by Primodos , successive government ' lack of action and the failure to prevent , be immeasurable . this could be a far great tragedy than thalidomide . apart from frustration at the pharmaceutical company and the glacial pace of Government in right this tragic , historical wrong , the most chilling word we hear , increasingly regularly , be : " we have recently lose another of our Primodos family . " the tragedy be that we all know that those people die without receive the justice they deserve . even if compensation be pay , it would never fully compensate the family who be so tragically affected , or take away the immense guilt experience by mother who feel that they be in some way to blame for the defect that their child suffer . it be well past the time for the current Government to put right this historical wrong , end the scandal and give some security to those who have suffer so much , thus allow the mother , father and the child who have survive some dignity and compensation for the tragedy that be cause through no fault of their own . the very least the Government can do be accept responsibility for the tragic circumstance , immediately issue a full apology to everyone affect by Primodos and compensate the victim . I and my party urge the Government to accept and commit to implement the full recommendation of the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety review and to set up a redress fund for family affect by Primodos . when we get to the wind - up speech , it will be six minute , eight minute , eight minute and then we will leave two minute for the proposer of the motion . I thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for secure this important debate and for her outstanding and ongoing work on the issue . I be here today on behalf of my constituent Helen Barham , who since her birth have suffer from the brain disorder agenesis of the corpus callosum , hydrocephalus , damage to her skeletal system , and a brain haemorrhage at only 12 week , lead to epilepsy . she wear calliper and boot due to her foot deformity . she have have to have a number of major surgery throughout her lifetime , include spinal surgery and a total hysterectomy . despite all that , she still await compensation , which would allow she a personal carer and more comfort than she currently live in . follow Helen ' s brain haemorrhage at 12 week in 1975 , her mother Diane be tell , in Diane ' s word , that Helen would be spastic , mentally retarded , partially sight and that , if the doctor be she , they would go home and forget about Helen , as she would be nothing but a cabbage . diane and Helen have defy that awful prognosis . Helen have an active social life , with swimming , discos and holiday to Butlins . over the last almost 50 year , Diane have tirelessly keep fight for Helen to have the good quality of life possible . however , ultimately the opportunity for a normal and healthy life be take from Helen while she be still in the womb , because in 1974 , Diane be give two pill follow a miss period . it be only when Helen be three year old that a doctor from Great Ormond Street Hospital inform Diane that it be likely that those two primodo pill be the cause of Helen ' s disability . although Diane have dedicate much of her life to Helen ' s care , as she have say , it have often come at a cost to her other child , her marriage , and her relationship with her parent . she be get old and less able to look after Helen . all Diane ask be for Helen to receive compensation so that she can have someone to care for she all the time . Helen be currently in hospital after experience yet another complication follow recent surgery to remove her gall bladder . doctor be unable to remove Helen ' s gall bladder fully and she be still struggle on the ward . I welcome the Government ' s apology to family by the former Health Secretary on behalf of the healthcare system , but it be financial assistance that family like Diane and Helen ' s need . as have already be say , the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety review lead by Baroness Cumberlege find that the drug should have be remove from the market in 1967 , and that both the state and the manufacturer have an ethical responsibility to fund a financial scheme for those harm to help they with their care cost . have be bear in 1974 , Helen certainly fall into that camp . the Government be already work towards redress system for valproate and vaginal mesh , as advise by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety review , but there have be no progress on a scheme for Primodos family . the 2018 systematic review of historical human study by Professor Carl Heneghan clearly demonstrate that primodo have a clear association with different form of malformation , include musculo - skeletal , neurological and neurogenetical form , all of which have affect Helen . modern science be also pave the way . previously it be impossible to prove a direct link with human study , as that would require test the drug on pregnant woman , but Professor Neil Vargesson have find similar outcome to those for child bear follow their mother be prescribe primodo when test the drug on zebrafish , choose for their genetic similarity to human . a new study have use chicken embryo and human cell line , and even low dose produce developmental abnormality . the full result be due later this year . Baroness Cumberlege feel that there be enough evidence of a link between primodo and complication from birth for financial support in February 2018 . since then , the evidence have only grow . I would like to reiterate to the Minister today how much difference the financial redress recommend by the IMMDS would make to Helen and Diane ' s quality of life . diane trust her NHS doctor and our medical system , and now we need to support she and her family as they continue to face Helen ' s complication together . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) on secure this debate , and thank she for her outstanding work in lead this campaign in Parliament . I also pay tribute to all the family of child who be bear with birth defect after their pregnant mother take Primodos for the courage that they have show . in particular , I pay tribute to Marie Lyon — who , I be pleased to see , be here with we today — for her tireless work . those affect should not have to fight for justice . I join colleague in the debate in call on the Government to acknowledge the fact that the recommendation in the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety review relate to Primodos - affect family have not be implement , and to explain why ; to implement those recommendation and to set up a redress fund for family affect by Primodos ; and to withdraw the 2017 expert working group report on hormone pregnancy test , which have be dispute by academic and be inconsistent with other more independent study . in their fight for justice , the family have suffer setback after setback . the late come a few month ago when claim for damage against Bayer Pharma , Schering Health Care Ltd , Aventis Pharma Ltd and the Government be strike out in the High Court , partly owe to lack of funding for legal representation . that be a bitterly disappointing blow . the Government have a moral duty to set up the redress fund for those affect . as far back as the late 1950 , concern be raise that hormone pregnancy test , the most commonly use of which be Primodos , could cause abnormality in a develop baby . further study in the UK and elsewhere from the late 1960 to the early 1970 suggest a link between the use of hormone pregnancy test and a wide range of serious birth defect . it take until 1975 for the Committee on Safety of Medicines to recommend that hormone pregnancy test should no long be use . the committee say that there be " little justification " for they , as alternative be available . it then send an alert letter to all doctor in the UK , advise they of a possible association between hormone pregnancy test and an increase incidence of congenital abnormality . the letter recommend that doctor " should not normally prescribe " those product as pregnancy test . however , it have be report that primodo sometimes continue to be use as a pregnancy test within the NHS until it be withdraw from the market by the manufacturer , Schering Chemicals Ltd , in 1978 . by that stage , the damage have be do . legal proceeding by the affected family begin , but be discontinue in the early 1980 . it be not until early 2014 , and the discovery of document from the 1960 that reportedly show that study suggest that hormone pregnancy test cause miscarriage and congenital abnormality , that a new campaign call for an independent public inquiry into they . criticism of the 2017 independent expert working group report on hormone pregnancy test include the fact that it do not examine regulatory issue and that a number of document have not be include in the review . additionally , the methodology and finding in the report have be dispute by academic and be inconsistent with other academic review , as today ' s motion highlight . one of those review be by a group of researcher at the University of Oxford , lead by Professor Carl Heneghan . the researcher conclude : " the evidence of an association " — by which they mean between hormone pregnancy test and birth defect — " have previously be deem weak , and previous litigation and review have be inconclusive . however , we believe that this systematic review show an association of oral hpt with congenital malformation . " despite that , the Government say that they currently have no plan to reassess the finding of the expert working group review . I hope that , today , we hear a different response from the Minister . in 2018 , the independent medicine and medical device safety review be announce by the Government , lead by Baroness Cumberlege . despite the Cumberlege review ' s find that primodo cause avoidable harm , and the clear recommendation for redress for those affect , the Government have refuse to even acknowledge it . that be a grave injustice and an insult to those who have suffer . let we remind ourselves of some of the adverse impact that affect individual and family have attribute to hormone pregnancy test use : congenital heart defect , dysmorphic facial feature such as cleft palate and lip , digestive system and bowel issue , intellectual disability , limb defect and , tragically , death . could I add to that those who be tell to have an abortion , and those who have a miscarriage or a stillbirth ? their family have be damage almost as much , and the guilt be still with they . the right hon . Gentleman make an excellent point and I agree . the Minister must recognise the clear moral case to support those affect . back in 2017 , the then Health Secretary apologise " on behalf of the NHS and the whole healthcare system . . . to those who ' ve suffer and their family , for their frustration , for the time it ' s take to get their voice hear . " however , in the year since , the Government have fail to provide the recognition and redress that those affect by primodo deserve . the Government must fully implement the recommendation in the independent medicine and medical device safety review and set up a redress fund for those affect by primodo as a matter of urgency . those affect by primodo have suffer enough , and they deserve justice . may I join other in pay tribute to the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , who have do such terrific work campaign on this issue ? she commandeer I as we be neighbour on Upper Committee Corridor South , when I be relatively new in Parliament . those campaigning effort have be so important on a fundamental issue for so many of our constituent . one of my own constituent be here today , follow our proceeding closely . the case before we seem so remarkably straightforward that it be impossible to see why there be such a stick - in - the - mud attitude from the Government , though perhaps less so from the pharmaceutical company , because they know that they be culpable and , ultimately , deserve a financial liability . why can I be so confident of that link ? there seem to be one very striking fact , which be reveal by Jason Farrell in the important work he do for Sky News : the drug be use in South Korea and Germany as an abortifacient . it be use to procure abortion . what be a drug that will do that do to a baby ? it be cause harm . that be so straightforward . we have hear already that primodo contain 40 time the amount of hormone in a contraceptive pill . it also contain 13 time the amount of the morning - after pill . it be so clear and self - evident that harm have be cause , and therefore responsibility must be lay at someone ' s door . we know from today ' s debate where those door be . I have great sympathy for the Minister who be to respond , because there be an extraordinary , peculiar tendency of Government — one I do not understand as a Back Bencher and do not understand in government — to cover up the mistake of long - since - pass administration . we have see it with Hillsborough , the infected blood scandal and even with thalidomide . there be no doubt an almost endless list . I do not understand it — it be not the current Administration at fault . they have do nothing wrong ; some be not even bear — the Prime Minister be not — when the scandal start . yet again and again , government and the bureaucracy will not open up , allow the real truth to come out and follow the evidence that be so brilliantly and clearly put by Baroness Cumberlege in her report . I congratulate the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) on raise this issue , and I thank she for bring this important debate to the Chamber and enable we all to participate and add our contribution . I have speak on this issue in the Chamber before , as have other , but today be important . the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) say succinctly in his introduction that for the life of he he could not understand why the Government have not accept the key issue . to he , it be an open and shut case ; it be to I , too . the Government really should grasp that and come back with the answer that we all seek . I want to speak up for all those mother and family impact across Northern Ireland . as the only Northern Ireland MP here in the debate , I want to contribute and assure those family across Northern Ireland that I be here to represent they and be their voice . the issue regard primodo have be ongoing for many year . we still have family fight daily for justice , or simply for an explanation of what go wrong . the independent medicine and medical device safety review have state its view that from 1967 , hormone pregnancy test should no long have be available . however , the fact show , as right hon . and hon . member have illustrate on behalf of the family , that it be still use until 1978 . I stand with right hon . and hon . member to speak up for those who have no justice , no answer and no compensation to this day . like the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , I wish to see compensation that reflect the loss and impact on those mother and child and all the family . varying combination of pill be use to this day by million of woman for contraception . primodo tablet be 40 time the strength of the pill . my goodness , if we grasp that , it lead we straightaway to what happen , but nobody know it . campaigner have claim that the use of the medicine in early pregnancy cause a range of devastating and lifelong impact such as limb defect , spina bifida , congenital heart defect and developmental and learn problem , to name just a few . furthermore , it have be claim that the use of the drug lead to miscarriage or stillbirth . the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) make that clear in his intervention , for which I thank he as it be a good reminder of the impact . I be pleased that it have now be decide that an apology be due . word be great , and it be good to have the apology on the record , but as elect representative we want support and compensation for the family who have suffer avoidable harm . I be not convince that an apology go far enough . I speak for those who have suffer miscarriage and stillbirth , and I have raise this issue before . in so many case , we be unable to carry out genetic testing due to baby die and their remain be go , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say in his intervention . I have no doubt that so many family out there be still traumatise by the prospect that their baby do not survive because of this drug . there must be support for those parent too . I look to the Minister to consider they for any form of compensation or support that may be forthcoming . there be sufficient evidence to prove that the drug be harmful for a period of time . we have a duty of care then and we have one now to those family . the Government must not fail again . to conclude , I believe there be scope to do more , both now and in the future , to support the family who have be suffer these trauma for decade and to ensure that such mistake be not make in the future and lesson be learn to protect life . let we do something for all those family who this day want help which , at the moment , do not seem to be forthcoming . that be why I look to the Minister , who be very understanding . she understand the issue very well . she have the heart for it . on behalf of my constituent and other , I hope that today we get the answer and the full compensation we want for they . first , I pay tribute to my parliamentary neighbour , the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , who have be so diligent over so many year in bring this issue to the fore . secondly , I pay tribute to local campaigner Marie Lyon , who live in my borough and who have do so much to raise the issue of the Primodos scandal over a considerable period of time . the Primodos pregnancy test be — I understand there have be some dispute about this description — prescribe to Marie over 50 year ago . she speak about this very eloquently on Sky during its investigation . it be prescribe to she over 50 year ago . as other member have say , the concentration of female hormone in the pill — she be tell to take two pill , 12 hour apart — be the equivalent of take 80 modern oral contraceptive pill in a single day , or , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) mention , the equivalent of 26 morning - after pill during a single day . the fact be beyond doubt . be there anyone in this Chamber or on this earth who believe that that would not cause significant damage to unborn child ? this issue have fester for too long . I understand , from speak to my hon . friend the Minister on the many occasion I have buttonhole she to ask she about what progress we can make , that the case in the court have delay progress . I take her word on that , but as other have say , include my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , I believe that this issue have progress out of the court and it be now long beyond time that we put it to a permanent resolution . I hope that when my hon . friend the Minister speak from the Dispatch Box she can give the House the reassurance that that will indeed be the case , and that we move forward to a scheme of redress and compensation , and get justice for the family affect . I hope that as an early part of that process , she will make haste to contact Marie and other member of the family affect , and meet they to discuss how we can move the issue forward . as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset say , for many year government of all colour have fail to address these issue and have perhaps put a carpet over the sin of the father , as it be . it be long past time that this be deal with . sunlight be the good disinfectant . Justice delay any further be certainly justice deny . I start by thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for all her work in raise the issue of Primodos , and Marie Lyon . like the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) , I know nothing of Primodos when I be first elect in 2019 . shortly after my election , I meet Marie with Charlotte Fensome , who join we today in the Gallery . Charlotte ' s brother Steven be a victim of Primodos and Charlotte ' s family have be one of the affected family . many of the word I be go to use today be Charlotte ' s word , speak of what her family have endure because of the advice of a gp to take Primodos . not long after our meeting in Parliament , I meet the Bagley family . Ted Bagley , Steven ' s father , be here in the Gallery today and I welcome he to Parliament . this debate be long overdue . it be extremely important that , now legal proceeding be not ongoing , we can discuss what the Government can do for Primodos family . the afternoon I spend in Wolverhampton North East with Ted and Pat Bagley , Charlotte , and Steven Bagley be a really enjoyable afternoon . I greatly value the chance of meet Steven and the Bagley family . it be a home fill with love . I have absolutely no doubt that Steven be aware that he be cherish and love by his family every day of his life , but I leave that home in absolute awe of the effort to care for Steven make by the two parent in their 80 who be still entirely responsible for he . let I read Charlotte ' s summary of her family life : " Mum be give primodo by her GP in Wolverhampton in the early week of her pregnancy with my brother Steven … he be bear in 1967 with severe brain damage . in many way he have a difficult life . he have profound learning disability and be unable to speak , feed or wash himself . he be incontinent and wheelchair bind . he suffer violent seizure on a daily basis , due to a form of epilepsy that medicine be unable to control and that keep he awake at night . he need twenty four hour care and my incredible parent care for he with great difficulty , but with absolute devotion , at home full - time , from the day he be bear until the day he die aged 53 year . we be a close family and we all adore Steven . I know that despite his disability , he be happy in life and he feel love . seizure aside , he be always smile and he have the most beautiful , expressive eye that could tell you exactly how he be feel . I ' m sure that he understand far more than any professional give he credit . he be a gentle man with a big personality and a devilish sense of humour , who love be the centre of attention and enjoy socialise . and although he may not have be able to talk , he be full of fun and make plenty of loud noise to compensate ! my parent be determined to give he a ' normal life ' from day one , even though society be less accept of disability … Steven go wherever we go as a family … on the dance floor … at party … in restaurant … he travel through Europe by car , fly on aeroplane and sail on ship . he love listen to opera for hour with dad and be very partial to a McDonalds ! he appreciate … life and do more in life than many people without his disadvantage . the hardship have make my parent strong despite the odd and this year they celebrate 62 year of marriage . to their credit , my own childhood be full of love , enjoyment and opportunity despite their difficult life . my sister Nikki and I be always incredibly proud to have Steven as our brother " . I be in no doubt of that love for Steven , but the daily grind of look after someone with such profound disability be awful to witness . Charlotte tell I during my visit that because Steven ' s epilepsy keep he awake at night , his parent have a round - the - clock watch . his mum Pat , in her 80 , sit up overnight with Steven , only sleep when Steven ' s father wake up in the early morning to take over the watch . the Cumberlege report give Steven ' s family some hope that finally help be on the way to support they in care for Steven . that redress be what I want to speak about today . Baroness Cumberlege say in her report that hormone pregnancy test " be not just a historic issue . we do not doubt the continue psychological suffering cause by their use - indeed we have witness it on the face and in the word of the family we have meet ; the sorrow and anger arise from a conviction that life have be needlessly , and often irreparably , damage , both physically and mentally ; the impact of carry a relentless sense of burn injustice for decade without resolution ; parent of the affected child , deeply anxious about what will happen to their adult child when they be no long there for they ; mother burden by guilt at have take the tablet . the extent of the suffering , endure over decade , must not be underestimate . " the report call for help for family to access support , and also for redress . both be greatly need , and I hope that the Government will respond positively to this debate . we have hear member on both side of the House speak of the impact that primodo have have on family , and I be especially pleased that several have mention that no mother should feel any guilt about have take it . it be crucial for every mother to know that she — like all of we when we see a gp — take the advice of medical professional , whom we trust to know well than we and to be act in our interest . that redress would not cost a great deal in the overall scheme of government spending . the Primodos family remain be now in the low hundred , not the many thousand . a discretionary award base on need would really help those family . when I ask Charlotte Fensome what the compensation and redress money would have allow , she come back with several very manageable ask . the first be night sit to relieve her parent , who be in their 80 , of have to sit all night with Steven . the second be a choice of incontinence pad which be not available on the NHS . the third be continuity of domiciliary carer who could get to know Steven and understand his need . the fourth be more suitable wheelchair . the fifth be adult centre training to provide way of occupy Steven , and the sixth be future care . that be the worry that family have . primodo parent be get old and old , and many of they worry about leave behind a child who will be at the mercy of the state ; we must give they reassurance . finally , there be the difficulty in access help . the Government could accept that Cumberlege recommendation to give the family a contact point to help they to access the service that they so desperately need . we have hear from many member about the drug fight in the court , so I will not go over that ground . it be always a David - Goliath fight for the Primodos family , and I know that they feel exhausted . they have wait so long for redress ; they have wait so long for help . Steven sadly die on Boxing Day in 2020 . he have be take into hospital , have contract covid from a visit carer . his sister Charlotte , with typical determination , fight her way into the intensive care unit to be with her brother . it be too late for the Bagley family , but their great wish be for other family to have the support that they so severely and desperately need . I thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for secure the debate , and it be a pleasure to follow the incredibly moving and powerful speech of my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) for her very powerful speech , and for the vital work that she have do in this area . finally , I pay tribute to the all - party parliamentary group on hormone pregnancy test and Baroness Cumberlege for all that they have be do to support the hundred of woman and child whose life have be turn upside down by the use of Primodos from the late 1950 until the 1970 . this be an extremely important issue for my constituent Sheila and Stuart Harvey , and Sheila ' s son Raymond Hyman . I be delighted that they have be able to join we , and be watch and listen to this important debate from the Public Gallery . Sheila be give a Primodos pregnancy test in the late 1960 , completely unaware of the risk . her son Raymond be bear apparently healthy and happy , but Sheila soon become worried when he fail to put on weight . three month into his life , and after numerous visit to different doctor and hospital , a team of surgeon at Great Ormond Street Hospital discover that his heart have fail to develop properly in the womb . only one ventricle have form , and the main artery to his heart be the wrong way round . Raymond undergo six surgical procedure during his childhood , and there be many point at which his parent be worried that he would not survive . fortunately , Raymond have survive , but there have of course be an impact on his whole life . his growth and education be affect , and he continue to struggle with his mental health , as well as have to take a huge number of pill every day . I understand that he receive no financial assistance whatsoever , not even to help pay for the prescription that he need to deal with the effect of the drug . as many member have say , family and victim such as Raymond deserve justice . the woman who use Primodos do nothing wrong . the NHS fail they , and we should not turn our back on they now . the Government have apologise to the family for what they have be through , and I very much welcome that apology , but I understand that the Government have no plan at the moment to offer financial redress to the victim . the principle of provide redress be nothing new and have be apply before in this country . it happen in the case of thalidomide , for which the Department pay around £ 80 million over 10 year . it happen again with variant CJD , for which the Government allocate a fund of more than £ 67 million for the victim . just like thalidomide victim and those diagnose with variant CJD , the victim of Primodos need and deserve our support , and not just in financial term but with practical and non - financial help , too . the Government have so far refuse to help , say their focus be on prevent future harm . it should not be a choice between reduce the risk of future harm , on the one hand , and help those who have already suffer , on the other . this be not an either / or but an and . we should be do both . I know that those watch our proceeding , both from the Gallery and at home , will very much hope for some assurance from the Minister today that a scheme to address this terrible injustice will finally be establish . it be trite and have already be say , but the word of William Gladstone be so appropriate today : justice delay be justice deny . it have be an honour and a privilege to sit through this debate . as usual , I will be speak with no note , because a lot of what have be say today I would have say myself . I pay tribute to the chair of the all - party parliamentary group , the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) . we have do much work together over the year . I pay tribute to Marie Lyon and all the other campaigner , but there be something about this debate . every time we have it there be unity , conformity , passion and love in the Chamber but , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) say , it disappear into Government and do not come back out . government of all description have know about this for year and could have do something about it , but , for some unknown reason , they do not . when I be a Home Office Minister under my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) we do other inquiry together , but we have to battle to get they . I do not understand why government , of all description , do not come to the House to make statement , so we have to uq they . it be plainly obvious that we will get a statement . we have three statement today , and quite rightly , but the Government would have be UQ - ed if they have not come to the House . perhaps common sense be prevail . when it come to really serious issue , like Primodos , for some unknown reason the Government , the Department and the Treasury pull down the shutter . it be not one Department , and I fear for the Minister when she stand at the Dispatch Box , because this be way outside the remit of just the Department of Health and Social Care . we hear early that government lawyer be threaten activist who be try to get justice for their family , love one and other . many of these campaigner have lose their loved one , and some of they be victim themselves when they be tell to have an abortion or when they have a miscarriage or stillbirth . a lot have change in society but , in the 1960 and 1970 , it be a really difficult thing for a woman to go to her gp because she think she be pregnant , especially if she might be a single mum . these couple and single mum be passionately wait for this pregnancy to make their life fulfil , and then , a short time later , they be tell that perhaps the good thing to do be to abort the child because they would have terrible deformity , or they might go through childbirth . I be lucky enough to have just become a grandfather . I remember be there 33 year ago when my wife punch I on the nose halfway through childbirth . she do not intend to do it ; she have no idea what be happen . she be just in a lot of pain and do that make she feel well . these woman be there and then all of a sudden they realise that the disfigurement and abnormality be there to be see — or , as we have hear in this debate , not see until a little later . we will be have a debate later , which I will be lead , about a situation where baby be bear exactly like that and people be be tell , " oh , they ' ve get bunion . " they do not have bunion ; they have a genetic deformity . but because that deformity be so rare , no one understand it . on this issue , however , the Government , the NHS , the GPs and the drug company know what they be do . if the drug company have withdraw Primodos after a year , when it first start to see this , most of we would have understand that these sort of situation occur and it should , rightly , have compensate . however , that be not what happen . this go on year after year , with it know about this drug . my point about the word " prescribed " be not just semantic ; this drug be not prescribe . a prescription be a prescription . open a drawer and give out a couple of tablet to the lady in front of you be not a prescription ; it be a handout . this be do with no information give as to the danger that we all see today . we have only to buy a packet of paracetamol to see write across the back of it what could happen . these lady be not give that opportunity . they need to know whether or not they be pregnant , for whatever situation they be personally in , and the GP then open the drawer . this be in an NHS surgery , with a gp who be self - employ , as they mostly be , but pay for by the NHS . those drug be give not through a pharmacist , but directly from the drug company to the GP to hand out . let I conclude on an area that we have not really touch on , and it be something that government need to understand . I be a shadow health Minister for four year and I be passionate about this . the damage to our NHS of public understanding of this be so , so bad . the public need to trust the NHS . when they go to their gp , they need to be able to trust that if something need to be do , it will be do for they and not for the system . our NHS be be damage by the way this cover - up continue . government lawyer have accept bit of Baroness Cumberlege ' s report , but the fundamental of it , which my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead make sure happen , have be completely ignore . we can run around the head of a pin and say , " it be because there be legal action here and legal action there , " but we should say , " let ' s just do what be right . we have make a mistake , in the Department or in the drug company , and we be go to put it right and put it right today , for those family who be still there and for those family we have lose . " that be the decent thing that this House should do . we come to the wind - up . I call Hannah Bardell . it be a massive privilege to speak on behalf of my constituent Wilma Ord and those other victim . I declare an interest , as a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on hormone pregnancy test , where I work alongside an incredible campaigner , the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) . she have do the most wonderful job and we have stand side by side . one of the first case I ever deal with as a constituency Member begin back in 2015 , when Wilma Ord and her daughter Kirsteen come to my constituency surgery . as happen to so many of the victim — our constituent who have be mention today — Wilma ' s doctor have take out a pill from his top drawer when she be pregnant and hand it over to she , and she have trust he . ultimately , that be what this debate be about . it be about that social contract that our constituent have with we as parliamentarian and with Government , with their doctor and the institution of the NHS , and with those private company that be allow into that space by we and by Government . it be also about the lack of regulation . if the Government continue to refuse to do anything about that , we can only conclude that these have be act of state - sanction harm , because those company be allow to operate within the framework of our society and harm be do to our constituent . another issue , which have not be touch on an awful lot , be the flawed and fail legal process . I will touch on that , but first I pay tribute to Marie Lyon , who be a remarkable campaigner ; to Jason Farrell of Sky News , who have do an incredible job and produce the documentary , " primodo : the secret Drug Scandal " , which I encourage member to watch ; to Baroness Cumberlege , for her remarkable work ; and of course to the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . in my opinion , her campaign on this subject be one of the right hon . Lady ' s great achievement of her time in office . there may be many thing on which we disagree , but we will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder on the issue . the Minister should be aware that we be not go anywhere . whatever happen at the next election , parliamentarian from every party in this place will continue to hold the Government to account on the issue . the scientist Carl Heneghan and Neil Vargesson have be mention numerous time ; their work have also be crucial . in 2020 the right hon . member for Maidenhead be right when she say : " I almost feel it be sort of woman be pat on the head and be tell ' there , there , dear . Don ' t worry . you ' re imagine it . you don ' t know . we know well than you do . ' " I agree wholeheartedly with she , as that be exactly how my constituent be make to feel — she be gaslighte . I have sit with my constituent many time and I sit with she again recently . she lose her husband , George , a year ago . he die not know the truth and not see justice . it feel very much as if this government be wait for people to die rather than take action , and that be for shame . when I meet with Wilma recently we talk a little bit about what the future hold . as other hon . member have say , our constituent be scared about what will happen next and about what the process and the future will hold . I want to talk a little about that process . when some of our constituent take their legal action to court , the litigation be cumbersome and expensive and , after the judicial decision this year , the campaigner feel that they have really be do over . I will use my parliamentary privilege , Mr Deputy Speaker , to say that they be do over by a company call Pogust Goodhead , which approach the primodo campaigner to take over the case . it then get cold foot and decide to drop the claimant and the victim when it do not fancy its chance of win . to compound that , the company go on to withhold the document that constituent such as Wilma Ord have present to the company to pursue the case . that prevent the campaign from be able to find other legal representation and fundamentally mean that the campaign be unsuccessful in court . in my view , that be a hostile and odious movement by any legal firm . the court citation state : " shortly after the service of the defendant ' evidence , PGMBM " — Pogust Goodhead — " inform the claimant that they could no long act for they . they then apply to come off the record … the material place … in support of the solicitor ’ application to come off the record be privileged and have be withhold from I and from the defendant . " those be the word of Mrs Justice Yip . she go on to say that " some claimant discontinue their claim " , and talk about the issue around manage a case that have " so many unrepresented litigant " . in its mission statement , Pogust Goodhead say it be a " global partnership … work to help individual , group , and business access fair and tangible justice . " what a load of absolute nonsense . I appeal to the company directly today , as I be pretty sure the lawyer who work on the case will be watch : give our constituent their document back and come clean on exactly how you pull out of that litigation . and for shame on the Government for go into cahoot with that crowd and leave our constituent and those victim in that situation . that be state - sponsor and fund action against our constituent and our citizen . as many people have say , this injustice have go on for decade , like contaminate blood , Hillsborough and the thalidomide case . it seem to be the order of the day and the order of Government to make people wait for decade , to traumatise and retraumatise they . Baroness Cumberlege ' s review clearly take a different view from that of the expert working group and conclude that the manufacturer and the state have an ethical responsibility to find a financial scheme for those harm . finally on my hit list be Bayer , formerly Schering , which say that financial recompense be not appropriate . last year , its profit be $ 4 . 4 billion . it make million off the back of Primodos and off the back of the damage that be do to our constituent . I be sorry , but this be not good enough for our citizen . it be not good enough from the Minister and it be not good enough from the Government . they need to get off their backside and do something about this , because we , as parliamentarian , as campaigner and as constituent , be not go away . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this important debate and , as other have do , pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for her tireless work on this issue . she not only secure today ' s debate , but have be a powerful voice in this campaign for many year . I also wish to put on record my thank to Marie and all the other campaigner . the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who be no long in her place , rightly say that debate such as this show Parliament at its good . I commend the contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) , and for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) . I also commend the speech and contribution from the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who do some good work in this area as Prime Minister and carry on campaign for justice , the hon . member for Stourbridge ( Suzanne Webb ) , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , for Tatton , and for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) , who be also not in his place , the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , for Leigh ( James Grundy ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) , for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) and , last but not least , the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) , who lead for the SNP . Parliament have speak with one voice and Parliament have speak incredibly strongly . we know , as we have hear today , that it have take decade for those affect by the hormone - base pregnancy test primodo to be hear let alone be give justice . around 1 . 5 million woman in Britain take Primodos in the ' 50 , ' 60 and ' 70 before it be finally withdraw in the late 1970 . since then , countless woman have come forward to tell their story , allege impact on their child range from congenital malformation , birth defect to miscarriage and stillbirth . the voice of these woman and their family be not hear for decade . the Cumberlege report , publish in 2020 after be commission by the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead , and the Secretary of State for Health , be a watershed moment in this decade - long struggle . it investigate not only Primodos and other hormone pregnancy test , but sodium valproate and pelvic mesh . what the Cumberlege report find be damn . it conclude that primodo cause " avoidable harm " and that the handling of this issue speak to an institutional failure to take the voice of woman seriously . the report make several recommendation relate to Primodos , include but not limit to : a full apology to those affect by Primodos , a patient safety commissioner , a redress agency for those harm and a taskforce to implement these wide - range recommendation . it be important to welcome the apology that the then Secretary of State for Health and Social Care make in 2020 follow the publication of the Cumberlege review . but , as have be make clear today , this apology be suppose to be the beginning . I be concerned that the Government have so far fully complete only two of the nine recommendation in the Cumberlege review . four be class as ongoing and three have be outright reject . that glacial progress be just not acceptable , so I will press the Minister on some key point that stand out to I in the Government ' s implementation update report of last December , and other development since . first , in relation to the recommendation for specialist centre for those adversely affect by medication take during pregnancy , the Department of Health and Social Care have reiterate its view that specialist centre be " not the most effective way forward . " instead , the Government point to NHS England commit to improve care pathway for the child and family affect . the Government ' s report state : " the Teratogen Clinical Development Group have recommend a proposal for regional multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary ' hub and speak ' service to sit within specialised neurodisability team " . those service would support the treatment of child and young people expose to harmful substance such as Primodos . however , the update report simply state that nhse " will explore this recommendation far " . can the Minister update the House on where that work have get to ? secondly , as have be highlight today , there be concern about the Government ' s approach to this issue . there have be a refusal to discuss the redress scheme , in contradiction to the Cumberlege review . there have be report of refusal to meet with campaigner and parliamentarian , and news of lawyer represent the government back effort to strike out legal action . the list go on and be become more and more concerning . give the High Court ruling in May , which I know many campaigner be exceptionally disappointed by , what step be the Government take to well engage with parliamentarian and campaigner on this issue , and do they have any plan to reconsider their position on redress and implementation ? I be really interested to know what Labour would do if it win the next general election . would it set up a fund for financial redress ? there seem to be a bit of a trend for the current Government , and Ministers support the current Government , to be look to Labour to fix some of these problem . we will look very seriously at these issue and the situation that we inherit after the next general election , but I want today ' s Minister and her Government to do what they need to do now , not wait until the next general election , which could be 12 month or more away . we need justice and redress now . this be not a party political issue ; it be an issue for each and every one of we in this House — those who have contribute to today ' s debate , and the many member who have not . on both side of the House , we have to ensure that this historic scandal be comprehensively address , and the soon the well for the victim and family . I sincerely hope that in her response the Minister will agree with all that have be say today , and that we can secure some very long overdue justice for these woman and their family . I thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for secure the debate and all right hon . and hon . member who have take part in it . we can not help but be move by the many case that have be bring forward this afternoon . this be the first time I have be able to speak either in this Chamber or in Westminster Hall on Primodos because , as many member have say , there be legal proceeding that end in May . the claimant have until 11 August to make an application for permission to appeal , which they do not do in that time , so today be my first opportunity since that legal action to speak on it . a second claim be be issue by those who believe that they be harm by hormone pregnancy test , against Bayer / Schering . that claim be stay pende the outcome of the first case and , give that the first claim be strike out by the court , there be now discussion regard the next step with that claim . however , I be free to speak today on the issue that we have discuss in the debate . I want to be clear , as a Minister who be responsible for patient safety , that the patient safety element be the most pressing and important part of my role . Baroness Cumberlege be also a constituent of mine , so hon . member can be assure that she lobby outside Parliament as well as inside . Baroness Cumberlege conduct a review , and the Government have accept and make progress on most of those recommendation . as have be say , an apology be issue by Government Ministers at the time when they respond to that report . we have appoint an independent Patient Safety Commissioner , and Henrietta Hughes be do an outstanding job hold the Government to account . I will touch on the issue around redress in just a moment . we have set up the mesh centre for those affect by pelvic mesh ; I meet regularly with those female campaigner to hear their feedback on the effectiveness of those centre , and there be work go on to review that . the MHRA itself be revise its practice as a result of Baroness Cumberlege ' s report . I think the Minister for her generosity in give way , but this sound like a typical civil service - draft speech , if I may say so , mention everything but the issue we be talk about . we be not talk about mesh ; we be talk about Primodos , and we want to hear about redress . can she now please address those point ? I can show the hon . Lady my remark — they be on the back of this paper , and I have be write they down during this debate . I be only two minute into my speech and I be address some of the point that be make . I will of course come on to Primodos as well . it be important to recognise that we do take those issue in Baroness Cumberlege ' s review seriously . we could not look at the issue around Primodos at that time because of the legal case , which I have touch on , but there have be some review . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) be here just before this debate . in his time as Minister for Life Sciences , he take the campaign and the evidence around Primodos so seriously that he set up the expert review in 2014 to look at the evidence that be in place . I hear very loudly this afternoon some concern about that expert working group and that maybe evidence be either misinterpret or not look at , but that expert working group do look at the evidence at that time and also issue a public call for evidence . the so - call expert group change the remit that it be give , with no recourse , as I understand it , to any Minister for permission to do so . it change the term of what it be suppose to look at , which be not what it be ask to do in the first place . I hear my right hon . friend and , as I say , I will come on to that specifically towards the end of my remark . there be further evidence review . hon . member have touch on the evidence from Heneghan et al . , and from Brown et al . in 2018 . those be look at , and again there be no evidence of causality find in those review . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I need to make some progress on address the point make . causality be one of the key issue here , because it be very difficult to prove . the only way it can be prove be if those test be do on pregnant woman , and we all know that would be utterly ridiculous and absurd . however , we do know that there be association , and the bar have be set so high that it have become impossible for people to get justice . that responsibility lie at the door of the Government . thalidomide campaigner be able to settle with the company . we need to look at how we can make that happen for primodo campaigner , but the Government also need to look at lower the bar . I take the hon . Lady ' s point that causality be a high bar . I be just go through the fact that there have be a number of review of the evidence so far . Baroness Cumberlege , when she set out the remit for her review , also state from the outset that she would not be able to touch on causality for many of those reason . there have be a number of review of the evidence , but I hear from right hon . and hon . member some concern that those review still have not get to the bottom of the issue that the family and those affect by primodo feel that they have face . on the next step , I have hear hon . member . I hear my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , who be clear about the drug be take even after evidence have emerge . I hear from my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Suzanne Webb ) about the effect on her constituent Helen and her family . I hear from my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) about his experience in Government and why these thing often take so long . and , of course , I hear my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who set up the Cumberlege review in the first place . my hon . friend the Member for Leigh ( James Grundy ) have lobby I hard outside this place on behalf of his constituent Marie Lyon and the many other who have be affect . now that we be in between the first and — potentially — second court case , I be keen to meet and get to the bottom of right hon . and hon . member ' concern . I wonder whether the Minister might clarify one point about the second court case . the Government be a party to the first court case ; that be the argument that they use for be unable to come to a decision . be the Government a party to the second court case ? if not , the second court case seem to I irrelevant . I will come to that in a minute . we be in between case , and I want to make progress while we do not have a live case . discussion be ongoing at the moment . I be the Minister with responsibility for patient safety , and on this matter , I , rather than official , write my speech . we all know that tragic event and accident can happen , but I be weary of meet family up and down the country who be victim of the injustice in the health service at the moment . I and the Secretary of State meet the family at the Countess of Chester Hospital only last week . I meet the family from tee , Esk and wear valley , whose young child die by suicide . I meet , as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , the family whose child die in east Kent , where there be an inquiry . I meet Janet and Emma , the sodium valproate campaigner from In - fact — the Independent Fetal Anti - convulsant Trust — and the woman who lead the mesh campaign . I hear day in , day out about the injustice that many have to face , and about the fight to get answer to basic question when thing go wrong . I be very happy to say from the Dispatch Box that I will meet the all - party parliamentary group , the hon . member for Bolton South East , and other hon . member who have take part in the debate . I be very happy to commit to a meeting with my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and with Marie Lyon , as well as with any other family who wish to meet , to discuss the Primodos case . if there be concern that evidence be leave out or not scrutinise , or that evidence in previous review be dispute , I be very happy to look again at that evidence and to leave no stone unturned until we absolutely get to the fact of the matter . the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) mention the letter that have go out to those take part in court case . I do not want people to be in a position where they feel that they can not get justice simply because they can not afford to , so I commit to look at that matter and address the point that he make as soon as I get to the Department . I do not want to come back to the Dispatch Box to discuss the issue around Primodos on an ongoing basis . if patient feel that there have be an injustice , and that there be evidence to support that , I be very happy to look at it again . there may be future court case , as my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead say , but we be at a point where we can look at that now . I be sorry ; I do not say that there may be future court case . the Minister herself refer to a second court case , and I ask a simple question about whether the Government would be a party to that case . I be grateful , and I be sure that the family will be grateful , that the Minister have open the door to sit down with and hear directly from the family and campaigner . she say that she be prepared to look at any evidence that come forward . the Cumberlege review be the evidence ; it set it out very clearly . that be all the Government need . to be specific on that point , the Government be involve in a second claim . we be not sure whether that claim will go forward — discussion about that be ongoing . as the appeal time out on 11 August , I be happy to commit today to look at the evidence and the Cumberlege review . Baroness Cumberlege be my constituent , and I be sure she will be push I for that . to follow on from the point make by the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the Cumberlege review have conclude . there be recommendation . be the Minister say from the Dispatch Box that the Government be not accept those recommendation ? we want to hear that they be go to implement those recommendation , not hear more evidence — implement they ! finger pointing be not exactly effective . as I set out at the beginning of my remark , we have accept the majority of those recommendation . we could not accept the primodos one while there be an ongoing court case . I have give my commitment from the Dispatch Box to review the outstanding recommendation in relation to Primodos , because I want to get to the bottom of this once and for all and provide justice for the family . I have hear from member across the House about their concern and the outstanding recommendation of the Cumberlege review , and my commitment be to look at those now . it seem to I that we be catch up in a quagmire of bureaucracy . we have have the Cumberlege review . we know what the result be . the Government say incessantly that they would not address the Primodos matter because of the court case . we now know that the court case be , in some respect , flawed , because the complainant and victim be not able to take their case forward as their information be withhold by the legal firm . as the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) say , they be now be treat in a hostile manner by the Government by be tell that they will be sue for over £ 10 million if they take another case forward . that be an utterly preposterous situation . if the Minister really want to get to the bottom of it , she need to implement fully the Cumberlege review and ignore the nonsense that have go on in the court . I do not want to test your patience , Mr Deputy Speaker , because I know that I be over time , but I have make the commitment to review the Cumberlege recommendation for primodo patient . for those who have be affect by sodium valproate and mesh , we be make huge progress . only this week , we introduce a statutory instrument so that sodium valproate can only be dispense in the manufacturer ' s original packaging . we have the pregnancy prevention programme , which be drastically reduce the number of baby bear to those taking sodium valproate . we be instal the registry , so that woman on sodium valproate be well care for and not take that medication . now that 11 August have pass and the claim be not follow up , I be look at the Primodos recommendation as well . my commitment be to come back to the House and update member on the progress on those matter . first , I thank all member who have speak in the debate . in particular , I pay tribute to the vice - chair of the APPG on hormone pregnancy test , the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) . the many intervention on the Minister from my colleague show that we be very unhappy about what she propose and what the Government seem to want to do about this . we want to meet the Minister , but not in six month or three month ; we would like to have a meeting in the next week or so . will the hon . Lady give way ? we want to sit down with the Minister , and we want she to say to we , " this be what we be go to do about the Primodos case . " we do not want the Minister to tell we the problem . we want a system of redress right now — that be what we want from the Minister — and I hope that when we have that meeting , she and her official will present to we the practical action they be go to take so that all the people who have be suffer for decade and decade actually get justice . we want she to tell we not about what have happen before or about the court case , but about the action she will take base on what the Cumberlege review say . [ interruption . ] the Minister be mutter , but in the past it have sometimes take we month and month to get a meeting with Ministers . I be glad that she have reassure we , and I hope that we will get a meeting in the next couple of week and that she and her official will present a concrete plan for how to get redress for the victim . [ interruption . ] order . I know that , strictly speak , the hon . Lady have only two minute , but these be important issue . if she wish to give way to the Minister , she may . I be sorry ; I do not realise the Minister be ask to intervene . I give way . I just want to reiterate that I have pledge to meet the APPG and all its member . I have also pledge to look at the recommendation specifically in relation to Primodos . I think it be important to meet the family and the APPG , so that we can make progress on this issue . I thank the Minister for that intervention . I look forward to meet she and her official , and to a great scheme that will help the victim of Primodos . I remind she that if we do not get our meeting , or if we do not get a satisfactory result , we will be back again — all of we . we have be fight for the past 10 or 12 year , and we will continue to fight this campaign , because the whole House be unite behind it . I hope we will get positive news at our next meeting . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note that child be bear with serious deformity due to the hormone pregnancy test drug Primodos , which be take by expectant mother between 1953 and 1975 ; further note that official warning be not issue about Primodos until eight year after the first report indicate possible danger ; observe that the report by the Commission on Human Medicines ' Expert Working Group on Hormone Pregnancy Tests in 2017 be inconsistent with other academic report ; note that the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review , first do no harm , find that primodo cause avoidable harm ; further note that the Government have refuse to acknowledge the recommendation by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review relate to Primodos family ; and call on the Government to fully implement the recommendation in the Independent Medicines and Medica al Devices Safety Review and to set up a redress fund for family affect by Primodos . Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva we now come to the debate on funding for the prevention of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva , or fop for short . I call Sir Mike Penning to move the motion . I beg to move , that this House have consider funding for the prevention of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva . thank you very much indeed , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be pleased you have pronounce it rather than I ; from now on , perhaps we will just use FOP , which be what most people — include the family — call it , but the scientist do not . fop be a genetic condition ; it be not an illness or a disease , as it be call all too often . it be very rare — one in a million . in this country , about 70 people alive have FOP , include about 30 young people and child . if we replicate that around the world , it be a very rare condition . the condition be probably the big nightmare for any parent , or anybody who love a child . let I give an example : I play rugby , and I bruise very regularly . I stop play fairly recently , but when I do play rugby , I would bruise . for those who have fop , there be a good chance that that bruise will turn to bone — skeletally , it will turn to bone . Most of we want our young child to be inoculate , and we have be through an inoculation process during covid , which I be very much involve with , but if someone with FOP have an injection there be a good chance that that trauma will turn to bone . I have circulate privately to the Minister , Mr Deputy Speaker and other some photograph of what that trauma can end up like and do end up like . I get involve in this issue when a couple come to see I in my constituency and say , " our daughter have FOP " — as a dyslexic person , I can not say it to this day , although I have practise and practise . I have no idea what they be talk about . it be a bit like the previous debate : when we first hear about Primodos and the problem with it , most of we in this room have never hear of it . fop be much rare than the condition suffer by the victim of Primodos that we have be talk about , or of mesh , valproate or any of those thing , but the effect on those individual and their family and love one be profound . my constituent say to I that , as a mum , she look at her baby and think there be something wrong with her toe . the initial diagnosis from most paediatrician would be bunion — bunion on a new - bear baby . my wife have bunion , but it be nothing to do with what she be bear with ; it be to do with the quality of the shoe she wear as a young lady . she will not mind I say that , because we have discuss this case before . it be only sometimes , when people get in front of the right expert , that they get the diagnosis for what be a completely incurable , progressive condition and find out what they have . that be what happen with my constituent . there be three consultant in this country who have that capability , and they be lucky that they get in front of one . I pay tribute to the Portland Hospital where the diagnosis take place . what do this mean for a young person ? there be young people in the Gallery this afternoon who have the condition . I think the little ' un have go home now because she be rather tired , and she help I deliver a letter to the Prime Minister at No . 10 early today . what do it mean for they ? it mean that their whole life be different . do we want to wrap our child up in cotton wool ? no , of course we do not . even if they have fop , do we want to wrap they up in cotton wool ? no , we do not , but they have to be extremely careful about inoculation , bruising , sport , and rough and tumble . my constituent be very lucky . I have a very forward - think planning department in my local authority , which use the delegate power it have to grant planning permission on the green belt — the green belt that I fight to protect in my constituency — so a specialist house could be build for Lexi , and she have the facility where she can have the safe upbringing she need . lot of people be very worried about permission be give in that way because the condition be so rare , and I have people say to I , " be you really sure this baby ' s get this condition , and be this not just circumvent the planning rule ? " . it be only when I circulate some of the photograph , which many colleague in the House have , that people say to I , " okay , we get it , " and two of they actually say , " we ' re really sorry . we get it . " because the condition be very often not visual in the early stage , there be no understanding of it . it be a bit like a mental health condition . we have much well idea about mental health these day , but when we walk up to someone , we do not know whether they have such a condition . if people go up to Lexi today , they would not know that she have FOP , but they will do in the next few year , when it will become pretty obvious . the interesting thing about FOP be that there be no set plan or rule for it . in some case it progress very fast , the bone grow very quickly and the effect on the skeleton , movement and mobility be very quick , but in other there be short burst of it , while sometimes there be nothing for year and then it will progress again . give the reason for this debate — and I apologise to the Minister , to whom I have speak privately about this — I do not want the Minister for Health and Secondary Care on the Front Bench . I want the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation on the Front Bench . it be nothing personal , but this be not an NHS issue . it be a condition that need scientific expertise in research and trial , which be in the Science Minister ' s portfolio . I understand why , as soon as we start talk about anything to do with health , the Health Department go , " that ' s ours , " but on this particular occasion , it be not . can I just say that I concur with the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about research and health research ? there be a concern about how it be be handle . I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . early , we have a short statement on Horizon , which be excellent in that the Science Minister be on the Bench , and when I ask the Secretary of State a few question about FOP , he agree to meet we in short time . the great news be that we will meet the Science Minister . the key to what be announce early be that work be be do before covid — and there be work on FOP be do around the world — and there be funding from Horizon for trial on FOP . the big issue be that covid interrupt the trial , not our leave the EU . I be sure some colleague will say , " ah , that ' s what it ' s all about . " no , it be nothing to do with that ; it be covid that affect it . I put that on the record straightaway , and we now have the great situation that Horizon be back on stream . one of the reason I want to see the Science Minister on the Front Bench be to ask he this question . perhaps colleague in his office can elaborate on this before I meet he . the trial be halt because of covid , but have we get to start from scratch again or can we move on with those trial ? I be old - fashioned and I use to be call a Eurosceptic , but we be now out of the European Union , so that be great . one of the thing that be say be , " well , you don ' t want to co - operate with Europe , " but of course we want to co - operate with Europe . the announcement today on Horizon be a classic example , and the classic example of why we have to collaborate not just with Europe but with America and other part of the world be that this condition be so rare and we could not do trial here . the scientist in America have a much big base on which they be able to do trial , and we need to learn from they and they need to learn from we . so it look sensible that we will be back in the european trial , but I be petrify about whether we will have to wait for Horizon to announce bid on a certain part of the scientific research , and then wait a couple of year for that decision to be make . that be what tend to happen with these project , but we be already in the middle of the project . in try to work out the good route forward — I be not a scientist ; I be look at this as a dad — we need two thing . research be go on into how we prevent the progression of FOP in the bone structure when there be trauma , and whether there be something early on that we can turn off . be there research out there that can predict that ? at the moment there be not , I understand . we have two situation . can we in some way look at the future and at anybody who , family - wise or genetically , be likely to get this condition ? secondly , if a child have get it , how can we slow down progression ? the family here with I today , and those in FOP friend , would argue that they have this condition so they need help and research now , but we also need research to prevent what be go on genetically . it also worry I how we need to spread knowledge about FOP around the world , not just in this country . in some part of the world , almost no fop baby be bear . just on a law of average , that be not possible , and it have already be prove that there be no cultural link . some genetic condition be link to what part of the world someone might have come from , but apparently they have already do research on FOP , and that be not the case . what be happen in part of the world where baby be not bear deform and people do not instantly know . that sort of research desperately need to be do . lot of work be be do in Boston and around the world , but it be key that we be back as an associate of Horizon . can we start not from scratch but halfway through and where we be before covid hit the project ? in a perfect world , we in this Chamber , and the family , would like to be able to press a button , perhaps give a tablet , and stop this progression . it be the most awful thing to be sit there , wait for your child to perhaps have a bump , a bruise or a progression . as a group , FOP Friends make sure that everybody talk to everybody . it be well learn from other people who be in the same situation and not have to reinvent the wheel every five minute . as I say early , people be desperate not to wrap their child in cotton wool , and to give they as much of a normal life as possible . early I be talk to the chair of FOP Friends . he be play badminton with his son who have get FOP , and I think he lose on a regular basis . there be thing that can be do , but the problem with the condition be that it be not the same in every child . it will be different in every child , and it be different in its progression . that be why this debate be so important , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to it . it be not a normal sort of debate . we have have a debate in Westminster Hall on this issue , which have such a dramatic effect on the life , future , aspiration and dream of those family whose life be affect by FOP . I think , and my colleague think — some of they could not be here today — that we should bring this subject to the Floor of the House , so that we could find out where this research be go . I thank the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) for bring this debate to the Chamber and for all the work he have be do to raise these important issue within Parliament . it be good to hear such a fulsome and good description of the condition and how people be affect by FOP . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on rare , genetic and undiagnosed condition , I be glad to be able to take part in this debate to highlight the issue face people with FOP . we have hear from the right hon . member about just how debilitate this condition be . usually cause by a gene mutation , FOP be the only know condition where the body change one organ to another . bone form in muscle , tendon and other connective tissue , progressively and irreversibly restrict movement . this severely limit the ability of those affect to perform the most basic task of daily life . child with FOP lose their independence just at the point they should be gain it . many of the issue affect family of child with FOP be experience by other people across the rare disease community , include long diagnostic odyssey . I apologise for interrupt so early in the hon . Lady ' s speech ; she be generous in give way . one of the bit that I think I miss in my speech be that FOP be not a disease ; it be actually a genetic condition . for the family , that be really important . american talk about FOP as a disease rather than a condition , but really and truly it be a genetic condition that someone be bear with , rather than something that someone would contract . I thank the right hon . member for make that clear . he be right that it be important for the family . sometimes in this House — even in our appg — we use a kind of shorthand about issue to bring people together . fop be indeed , as he say , a genetic condition . the rare disease community have some issue in common , include those long diagnostic odyssey . how long do people have to wait for their condition — I will use that term — to be recognise ? there be a lack of clinical awareness with many of these condition and limited treatment option for far too many people . fop , as the right hon . Member have say , be perhaps one of the rare and most disabling of these condition , with no treatment or cure . within the rare condition community , a diagnostic odyssey , as he will know , refer to a common scenario in which delay to access the right support and the right treatment — where it exist — can cause irreversible deterioration of an individual ' s condition . while there be no treatment for FOP , repeat investigation , such as biopsy , can trigger the condition ' s progression . that can be trigger by trauma , too . furthermore , delay diagnosis prevent parent from take action to keep their child safe from situation and activity that could trigger injury and flare - up . unfortunately , a diagnostic odyssey be the norm for many child with FOP . get a diagnosis take one and a half year on average , and more than half of people with FOP get the wrong diagnosis in the first instance , as we have hear . despite genetic test be available , FOP be not include in the national genomic test directory for rare and inherit condition . can the Minister explain why it be not include in that directory ? what plan do the Government have to change that position ? the real hope for FOP , as we have hear , be new research . like much of the research into rare condition , it be likely to have far - reach benefit for more common illness , such as osteoporosis , childhood brain cancer and heart disease . at the moment , the Government be oversee a decline in research and international life science competitiveness , with commercial clinical trial activity in the NHS decline over recent year . we have hear from the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead about the STOPFOP trial , which be support by fund from the European Union ' s Innovative Medicines Initiative as part of Horizon 2020 . be it not ironic that we be discuss this on the day we have hear that we be now in the Horizon programme ? thank goodness we be ; it be an important move . however , there have be two year of waste opportunity and uncertainty for people go through trial and research , such as people with FOP . I understand that researcher would have to apply for new funding from the scheme to carry on with the STOPFOP trial . how will the Government ensure that funding continue to be available to allow the trial to continue , and to ensure real progress in diagnose and treat fop ? as the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead say , time really be of the essence if we be not to lose the benefit of the work already do and if we be to give those with FOP , and those who may be bear with the condition in future , the good chance of the early possible diagnosis and treatment . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) and the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) . I thank they for their contribution , particularly the right hon . gentleman for set the scene . fop be an extremely rare condition , but it be important that the matter be air in the Chamber and the right hon . Gentleman have do that well . he be probably right that the relevant Minister be not here . that be no disrespect to the Minister who be here — we know that he be an honourable person , who will respond positively within his remit . if another Minister need to take the matter on board , we look to the Minister who be here to make the case persuasively to they , and hopefully we will get a response . when the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ask I whether I would come along to support he , I automatically say that I would , because the debate be about a health issue , health be one of my portfolio and I want to understand the condition . I have always have a particular interest in rare disease . long before I come here , I be a member of the Northern Ireland association for rare disease . I be therefore particularly interested in the subject . I will be honest : I know little about FOP . I have to research it , and the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead give I some pointer . it be so interesting to read about it and to learn how rare it be and how little we know about it . fop be an exceptionally rare genetic condition , where soft tissue develop into bone , create a second skeleton . the right hon . Gentleman illustrate the condition clearly when he describe the bruise , the bump , the jag or the discomfort . around 70 know individual be diagnose in the UK , and the disorder have be describe as impact " one in a million . " that give an idea of the rarity of the condition . the House be task with highlight the issue and raise awareness , and I hope that the debate will do that . as far as I be aware , there be only two know case in Northern Ireland , and they be twin sister . I do not have their permission to name they , and I would not do that , but there have be public information about the case . my hon . friend have touch on the really important point of the lack of diagnosis . if we know that one in a million child will be bear with it , the calculation for the world population be pretty obvious . we be nowhere near identify the number that should be out there . in my constituency and in any other hon . member ' s constituency , there be probably child who have be bear with the condition . however , the length of time it take to get a diagnosis — because the test be not part of the programme — be the most important thing . the condition can be test for if there be a will . the right hon . Gentleman have make a simple request about diagnosis . perhaps awareness can be raise of the simple test , which it be so important to do . I understand that the twin in Northern Ireland be rightly keen to raise awareness of the issue . such rare disease be often ignore . Most people — include I before this debate — have little or no idea what it be or , more importantly , what we can do to raise awareness . but today we can use our position as mps to highlight the issue , with the co - operation of the Minister and the shadow Minister . I can not for a moment imagine what it must be like to grow up with a condition about which there be little or no information , not to mention what it would have be like when the twin be child , when there be no cure or treatment for the condition . early and correct diagnosis be key to change the life of someone suffer with FOP , as the right hon . Gentleman say . this debate be a request for hope and for progress for our constituent . the purpose of this debate be fund , with the hope of a potential trial of the exist drug Saracatinib , originally develop by AstraZeneza as a cancer drug . the underlying issue be that if the STOPFOP trial be not complete , the money spend on it will be waste . give the progress of trial and the advancement in medication , it be right that every effort should be make to try to find that money to ensure that the investigation into that treatment take place . like all clinical trial and all thing in health , there be other thing the trial could help with . I be not a scientist , but it have be put to I that while we be look at clinical trial into FOP , there may be help for osteoporosis — brittle bone — and skeletal damage , particularly that suffer by the military . even though we be talk about a tiny percentage of the population with FOP , the population with brittle bone be huge . it seem that there be very little cure for it apart from take calcium tablet . if we get the principle right on what be cause the bone growth , perhaps the research can be extend past fop and we can help million of people in other area . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . whenever trial take place there be always benefit , although perhaps not the intend one . none the less , the focus can be large , whether it be brittle bone or whatever . what be originally a cancer drug have be find to be beneficial to those with FOP . as initial funding for the trial be run out , the main ask be to ensure that additional funding be allocate , while ensure that secure funding extend to allow the trial to include child , especially the screening of new - bear infant — as the right hon . Gentleman have refer to . many have say that early and correct diagnosis be key to change the life of someone with FOP , so I can not imagine how the trial could not extend to newborn and extremely young child . raise awareness be how we will improve treatment for the condition . I have be make aware that there be only three knowledgeable FOP clinician in the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . that leave patient often find themselves treat by doctor with little or no fop knowledge , which be rather disappointing , but focus attention on those three clinician . like other condition , patient must battle to be hear . be aware of what to look out for be crucial : shorten or turn - out toe in young child raise concern , but if combine with tumour - like swelling , FOP be almost certain . it have also be raise that many patient be give biopsy and misdiagnose with cancer . other have have limb amputation , which perhaps be not the right way forward , but a response to not be quite sure what the problem be . have well access to a wide pool of expert would make a huge difference in diagnose and treat people correctly . the charity FOP Friends , base in Oxford , be fantastic at support family . I have also see some of the social medium page of parent of child who have FOP . their work be absolutely incredible . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way — thank goodness we have plenty of time to debate this issue . as he allude to , there be a petition on social medium , which be sign by well over 100 , 000 people . the Government ' s response — I should have mention this to the Minister — be that they have fund research into FOP , but I be afraid that do not appear to be the case . they have fund research into rare disease , not fop . that be probably crucial when it come to the public ' s belief in what we do in this place . the Minister take note of what the right hon . Gentleman say , so I have no doubt that there will be a response . the Minister have a genuine interest in the subject and I hope we will all be encourage by what will have be say . the parent be the main driver of the campaign and the effort go into it be truly incredible . many different people be make an effort with FOP Friends , whether the family , clinician , those involve in clinical trial , ourselves as member of Parliament , and , ultimately , the shadow Minister and the Minister . to conclude , I thank the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead again for raise this issue with we today . he speak so highly of his constituent . he do it all the time , by the way , but he do it again today . he have indicate to I that he be not run for Parliament again . we will miss his constant and compassionate commitment , intervention and speech in this Chamber . he do not always do what his party want he to do , but he always do what be right and that be what I admire about he as an individual . it be important that we do all we can to help those with this condition to cope . we must do more to fund research into this trial . I sincerely look forward to hear about development in the future . to give those with FOP a well quality of life just like the rest of we , we need the Government and the Minister , from whatever Department , to help deliver just that . I congratulate the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) on secure the debate . I apologise if I stumble between illness , disease and genomic ; this be not my specialist subject . rare illness be collectively widespread . there be thousand of different rare disease and illness , and each one can require highly specialised treatment . that mean that people live with they can face the prospect of a long " diagnostic odyssey " before they be accurately diagnose and able to access treatment . the various aspect of their treatment and care also often lack co - ordination . it be vital that we continue to strive for improvement and ensure that all those live with a rare disease get the right diagnosis fast , and can access co - ordinate care and specialist treatment . the " UK Rare Diseases Framework " be co - produce by the UK Government and the devolved nation . it set out the key priority for the next five year for improve the life of people live with rare disease . each nation commit to produce their own action plan base on how those key priority will be implement . the Scottish Government understand the importance of the framework and be commit to implement the 51 commitment outline within it . they also welcome the progress that have be make in Scotland in deliver genomic medicine and empower patient through the UK ' s rare disease forum . in December 2022 , the Scottish Government publish their " Rare Disease Action Plan " , which be develop through significant engagement with the rare disease community . through their combine effort , the Scottish Government will ensure that they be put those live with a rare disease at the heart of policymake , ensure this meet the need of the rare disease community in Scotland while reap the benefit of a four - nation approach . the Scottish Government ' s action plan set out four key theme to implement the UK rare disease framework : ensure patient get the right diagnosis fast ; increase awareness of rare disease among healthcare professional ; well co - ordination of care ; and improve access to specialist care , treatment and drug . the Scottish Government remain fully committed to ensure that there be continual improvement in supply patient - centric care that be safe and effective for those live with a rare disease . the genomic medicine landscape be develop rapidly . in the last five year we have see the implementation of impactful genetic testing for a variety of condition , which have help to inform patient treatment , allow patient to receive the right treatment at the right time . Pathogen genomic be also help to deliver " precision public health " by guide investigation of infection outbreak , antimicrobial stewardship , well - target disease control , and infection surveillance . the Scottish Government publish " Genomics in Scotland : build our future " in March this year . the Scottish Government ' s strategic intent be to deliver an equitable , person - centre , population - base genomic service and infrastructure for Scotland . this publication be the first in a series , set out the Scottish Government ' s strategic vision for Scotland ' s genomic future . they will publish a series of document in the future , explain how they will deliver genetic service that will allow Scotland not only to treat disease but to prevent ill health before the prevalence of symptom . scottish physician and scientist have be actively participate in the advancement of genomic medicine over the past three decade . Scotland have a great foundation to build on within the NHS laboratory network , but it be important that these laboratory be fit for the future , as we know that genomic medicine be on a steep trajectory . achieve the Scottish Government ' s ambition of have a genomics ecosystem with the infrastructure to support it will require investment in rapidly evolve technology , skill and facility . the Scottish Government will be innovative and adaptive to change , work collaboratively through the triple helix approach with academia , industry and the public sector to harness the opportunity at their disposal and deliver an integrated approach to genomic across Scotland . their genomics strategy align with their rare disease action plan , and they will engage with the Rare Disease Implementation Board , as well as key rare disease organisation such as Genetic Alliance UK , to ensure that the strategy be inform by those who will benefit most . while I see the intent and acknowledge the money be spend , it be clear that far more money be require to fund the research that be need . the UK Government have overspend ten of billion of pound on the Ministry of Defence , Crossrail and hs2 — and , ironically , PPE during a health crisis — which show that the money be there , but it must be spend wisely . in Scotland , follow the 2022 - 23 emergency budget review , genomic be allocate a revise budget of £ 5 million . through the funding allocate so far in 2022 - 23 , the Scottish Government have establish the Scottish Strategic Network for Genomic Medicine and fund a genomics transformation team within the NHS National Services Division , lead by a consultant clinical scientist and support by clinical lead for rare disease and cancer . genomic medicine be an integral part of precision medicine and precision health . it can lead to early and more precise diagnosis , as well as more target prevention and management of disease . over the next five year , the genomics landscape in Scotland will be transform as we work to ensure that patient have equitable access to timely , personalised and high - quality genomic medicine for a range of condition , include FOP . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to be here this afternoon . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate and pay tribute to the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , who secure it and who have tirelessly campaign on this issue with his constituent and the charity FOP Friends , who I understand have join we today in the Public Gallery . I pay tribute to the family ' tenacity and bravery in raise the profile of this rare condition , and in continue to do so . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) for be here this afternoon . one of the great privilege of our role here be learn from the experience — sometimes the very difficult and harrowing experience — of our constituent , and learn from they about subject that we might not ordinarily have come across . I have certainly learn a great deal from prepare for the debate , and also this afternoon . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead for help I to understand the impact of this condition , which he have do so eloquently and powerfully today on their behalf . I know that he work with my office and other office to ensure that all of we be well informed . as we have hear , this be an ultra - rare condition , affect only one person in 1 million , and there be currently no cure . however , we also know that what action can be take be effective , both in diagnosis — which be crucial — and in care , and that people can some people can enjoy have good general health and reach old age , which I have be tell be now over 60 . it be my birthday this week , so that be quite close . I do not think it be old age , but they can certainly live for quite some time . early diagnosis be vital to manage the progression of FOP , and the average age of diagnosis , as I understand it , be around eight year old — as we have hear , the early sign include under - turn big toe — but great awareness would mean early diagnosis for child with FOP . family who understand that something be not quite right would be comfort to have that diagnosis . as we know , young child be not particularly careful or robust and , although we understand the danger of immunisation into muscle , it would be a positive step forward for FOP . fifty - two per cent of people with FOP initially receive an incorrect diagnosis , create more delay in care , with swelling due to flare - up often be misdiagnose as cancer or other disease , which lead to unnecessary and potentially harmful procedure . there have be limb amputation , and the damage that do to the muscle mean it almost invariably turn into bone . surgeon do not amputate a limb for the sake of it , and with the good will in the world , amputation be often more damaging and do not help the patient ; if anything , it make it bad . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his clarification about that , which add to the trauma that people be live with . a genetic test can confirm the diagnosis , and we expect to hear whether the Minister have make any assessment about include the test in the national genomic test directory for rare and inherit disease . give the commitment in the rare disease action plan , it would be helpful if the Minister outline what discussion he have have on new - bear screening for FOP and the inclusion of digital education resource relate to FOP . as we have hear , there be only three knowledgeable clinician in the UK . access to information and guidance on FOP would make a huge difference for all those live with this condition . accept that the Minister and I be the b team , and scientist would have be preferable , it be important that there be good care to help people with the condition who may be immobilise at a fairly young age . care for FOP and other rare disease be specialist and complex , and it reach across the health and social care system . I be sure I speak for he when I say that we be both very pleased to talk about the impact on the wide health service . we know that we be very short of care staff more generally , which be not helpful for people who need care or their family . those live with this condition be vulnerable to some of the wide issue in the care service . more generally , it would be helpful if the Government could outline more support in the workforce plan , include in social care . without an increase in the number of care worker , those live with rare disease such as FOP will struggle to get the care they need . that be why we think it should happen , and it would be helpful to hear what step the Government be take to support the care workforce for people live with this condition . we have hear that research be the great hope for those live with this condition , and the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead have argue passionately , as have other , for the need to continue fund the STOPFOP trial . the amount of money raise by FOP Friends and the progress that have be make be an incredible achievement . we know that research into FOP will have benefit and implication for more common illness , such as osteoporosis , childhood brain cancer and heart disease . obviously , we be all pleased to hear that , after a very difficult and uncertain two year of frankly unnecessary negotiation — which have halt or delay collaboration and research — we will now be involve in the Horizon programme , which will be crucial to make progress in this area . a key commitment in the rare disease action plan be to improve the Be Part of Research platform to make it easy for people live with rare disease to participate in research , should they choose to do so . again , it would be helpful to hear from the Minister what the Government be do to support those who wish to take part in the trial . as we have hear , FOP can be devastating . the family want to live in good health and live their good life with their love one . I give my heartfelt commendation to those live with this condition and their family . I be pleased that people have come here today and I be sure that that visit to Downing Street be a really positive . the fact that we be debate this issue today be a testament to their hard work and commitment . let I start by thank my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) for secure this important debate on FOP and for his powerful and compelling contribution . as he eloquently and articulately set out , FOP be an incredibly rare and truly devastating condition . he be a champion for people live with it and for their family , and I thank he for that . it be impossible not to be move when read about this currently incurable condition and when see picture such as those he send I about it . I be sure I speak for the whole House when I say that hear about Lexi Robins and her parent , Alex and David , greatly move I . I can only imagine what they must be go through , and I send my heartfelt sympathy to they and their entire family . I also wish to express my admiration for Chris and Helen Bedford - Gay , who establish the charity FOP Friends , after their son , Oliver , be sadly diagnose in 2009 . I understand from my right hon . friend that they have raise more than £ 700 , 000 since then to fund research into treatment and to support family impact by FOP . I be sure that many , many family be incredibly grateful for all their effort . at the outset , let I confirm that I be happy to join my right hon . friend in meet the Science Minister on this issue . we already work hand in glove on matter of research , and the House would expect nothing less . it would be remiss of I not to also welcome the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) to her place and to congratulate she on her promotion on the Front Bench . I also thank the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) and my friend the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for their constructive and powerful contribution to this afternoon ' s debate . I will endeavour , with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , to give as full and comprehensive a response as possible , give that I have far long than any Minister usually have to respond to a Backbench Business Committee debate . let I kick off with a question ask by the hon . member for Blaydon about the national genomic test directory . I scribble those word down at pace as she be speak . I will check and write to she specifically to confirm this , but my understanding be that FOP be a form of skeletal dysplasia , which be in the national genomic test directory . I will confirm that in writing once I have check with official on my return to the Department . I want to assure the House and , of course , all family affect by rare disease and condition — I note my right hon . friend ' s point about FOP be a condition , but " condition and disease " be a phrase that the Department and clinician often use — that we certainly recognise and understand the challenge they face . these disease and condition have wide - range impact , not just on sufferer ' physical health , but on their mental health and on their involvement in the community , as he set out . that be why it be crucial that those affect by this condition receive the good possible care , from swift diagnosis to treatment , to improve their quality of life as disease and condition , sadly , progress . to do that , it be vital that the UK harness our research prowess . today ' s debate have largely focus on the power of research and how it be often the key to unlock so much . our university , scientific institution and healthcare system very much lead the world in this space — we often say that we be world lead in lot of area , but research be certainly one area where we be . they have enormous potential to develop solution to improve the life of people live with rare condition , include FOP . let I be clear that the Government be commit to fund this research . in July , the Medical Research Council and the National Institute for Health and Care Research announce £ 14 million of investment to launch the UK rare disease research platform . that be bring together expertise from across the UK to foster new and innovative treatment for rare disease and condition , and to accelerate work to improve diagnosis . what be more , the Government be commit to funding groundbreake research through nearly £ 790 million of new investment , again through the National Institute for Health and Care Research ' s biomedical research centre . there be 20 centre , all of which research rare condition and bring together academic and clinician . their role be to translate scientific breakthrough into potential new treatment , diagnostic and technology . I thank the Minister for his comment about the UK rare disease funding . it be very welcome , and I be particularly pleased to see that some of those centre be in Newcastle , in the north - east . that be really important , as I will discuss in my Adjournment debate later . will he talk specifically about research into this condition , which be what the family will want to hear ? the hon . Lady pre - empt my next sentence , but let I give way to my right hon . friend before I continue . I will await the next sentence with interest . I have be to Oxford and meet many of the scientist who be carry out the research , but bid for this sort of funding be enormously complicated . it take forever and a day to fill in the bid — a lot of time , and time be money for a scientific facility — and will not help with fop because it do not fit into the category that the Minister refer to . it be so rare that we have to bid for funding across Europe or with the Americans . be there any way that we could simplify the process , so that researcher could know early whether they have a chance of get the funding or if they be waste their time ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . give the complexity of the issue he raise , it might be helpful if I respond in great depth at our meeting , where I will invite Professor Lucy Chappell , who head up the NIHR , to explain that process . she be always look at how we can improve route to research and make it as easy as possible for researcher to come forward with fundable bid that the NIHR be then in a position to fund . the hon . member for Blaydon pre - empte my next sentence , which be go to be on FOP specifically . I be pleased to say that the Government be fund dedicated research into FOP . since 2010 , the Medical Research Council have fund three project relevant to FOP . I will ensure that right hon . and hon . member get further detail about exactly what the Government have fund . in the last five year , the NIHR have support seven study specifically into FOP . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead say , the biomedical research centre in Oxford have support the STOPFOP clinical trial that be explore the safety and efficacy of use the new drug Saracatinib , to which the hon . member for Strangford refer , to treat sufferer of FOP . both the National Institute for Health and Care Research and the Medical Research Council welcome funding application into any aspect of human health . my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead rightly make a point about the challenge of design trial for rare disease . the efficacy and mechanism evaluation programme that be fund by the NIHR and the MRC may suit researcher who be interested in FOP , as it look to attract study with novel methodology design that can deliver result efficiently and quickly . my right hon . friend and other rightly refer to Horizon Europe . I know that , ideally , he want the Minister of State for Science , Research and Innovation to respond to this debate , but I reiterate that I work incredibly closely with that Minister because I have responsibility for all research fund by the National Institute for Health and Care Research and through the Department . moreover , the NHS be a vehicle for so much of the research that happen . as my right hon . Friend point out , Horizon Europe be a valuable platform for researcher from across the continent to come together to tackle share challenge , especially in area of this nature where the number of patient affect , or certainly diagnose , be very small . it have be an important source of funding for research into rare disease and condition , include the STOPFOP study . as my right hon . Friend allude to , we have be negotiate the UK ' s continued involvement in the programme . I be delighted to say that , such be the timeliness of this debate , the Prime Minister this morning announce the successful conclusion of those negotiation with a bespoke deal in our national interest , as the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology set out in a statement to the Commons early today . let I respond to my right hon . friend ' s specific point about how quickly research can be stand up . as of today , UK researcher can apply for grant and bid to take part in project under the Horizon Europe programme , and they can do so with certainty that the UK will be participate as a fully associate member for the remain life of the programme to 2027 . this be a learn process for all of we , and it be not just about FOP . as I understand it , Horizon ask for bid on certain aspect . a bidder can only bid if they fit into those criterion and then they have to wait for up to two year to run the project . the FOP project have to stop because of covid . to start all over again would be very difficult . I wonder whether the Minister will join I in that meeting to see whether we can slot into the process , rather than start all over again . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . again , he have pre - empte what I be about to say next . I listen intently to his question to the Secretary of State during the statement early today , where he secure a meeting with the Minister of State for Science , Research and Innovation . of course , I would be very happy to join he at that meeting . I share with he the view that if there be an opportunity for that research to be continue , we certainly do not want to see it start from scratch . at the moment , my understanding be that that research relate only to adult and my right hon . friend , understandably and rightly , would like it to be extend to child . let I turn to the step that the Government be take to tackle rare disease and condition more broadly . in 2021 , we publish the UK rare disease framework , which embody our commitment to build a bright future for people live with rare disease and condition . the framework identify four key priority area : help patient get a fast diagnosis ; increase awareness of rare disease among healthcare professional , which be something that my right hon . friend be particularly passionate about ; deliver more co - ordinate care ; and , alongside that , improve access to specialist care , treatment and drug . since then , as be allude to by the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) , all four nation of the United Kingdom have publish rare disease action plan to suit their healthcare system , and we very much work — and have to work — in collaboration on that . in England , we publish our second rare disease action plan on 28 February this year , which also mark International Rare Diseases Day . in that , we set out 13 new action to drive improvement across the health system and we be commit to publish action plan throughout the lifetime of the framework . I touch on awareness of fop and rare condition and disease more broadly , because my right hon . friend rightly highlight how a lack of awareness of FOP in the medical community can lead to under - diagnosis , miss diagnosis and , sadly , unnecessary examination , which can exacerbate symptom . that be why improve healthcare professional ' awareness of rare disease and condition be central to the rare disease framework . I be pleased to inform the House that we be make good progress in that regard . NHS England have develop GeNotes , which be an online resource that put information about genetic disease and condition at the fingertip of healthcare professional . I be pleased to tell the House that resource dedicate to FOP will be add to GeNotes . that will help more clinician to diagnose this awful condition , and sufferer will receive the treatment that they need more quickly . my right hon . friend have raise newborn screening with I privately . the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) also raise newborn screening for FOP . they be both right that antenatal and newborn screening can be a vital tool in the early diagnosis of rare disease . national screening programme be implement on the advice of the United Kingdom National Screening Committee , which make independent evidence - base recommendation to Ministers in all four nation . while I understand that there be currently no plan for a national newborn screening programme specifically for FOP , I highlight that proposal for new condition can be submit to the National Screening Committee ' s annual call for new topic . on newborn screening , be the Minister aware that there be concern among the rare disease community about the limit of our newborn screening process ? this be something that we be speak about at the moment . we think that there be option for it to be expand in a positive way . I have hear that from other charity , group and organisation represent those with rare disease and condition . it be right that we respect the independence of the National Screening Committee , which put forward to Ministers evidence - base decision , but it be nevertheless important that we listen to organisation that be make valid case . I be also concerned about the length of time that the National Screening Committee can take to make decision , review evidence and present recommendation to Ministers . in our meeting , I will happily discuss that issue in great depth and at great length . let I once again thank my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead for secure today ' s hugely important debate , and in particular for secure it on the Floor of the House . I express my heartfelt support for the entire fop community : those live with the disease , their carer , their family , the clinician and the charity FOP Friends , which work tirelessly to improve the life of people affect by this devastating condition . I reiterate my thank to all member for shine a light on the condition this afternoon . I very much look forward to our meeting and to discuss this far . I genuinely believe that together we will continue to strive for progress and awareness , and support those live with FOP . what an excellent debate we have have . I apologise if I be in any way rude to the two Front Benchers when I say that I would have prefer the Science Minister . I will have the Science Minister later , so that be perfectly okay . I be very grateful to today ' s Minister , who set out some thing that we do not know . on screening , if we know about this early , we will save the NHS money . I know that an independent body look at rare disease and condition , but for this particular life - change and life - shortening condition , the aspiration and dream of parent be change dramatically the early they know , because the early they know , the early we can get those at FOP Friends who have be through it themselves help they . the more we can screen , the more we will find — the one in 1 million figure show that we do not know about enough people , because it do not work that way — and the more chance we will have of get consultant who specialise in this area , rather than the three that we have currently . the more active we be in this area , the more scientist will want to come to this country and work at Oxford with the team there , and with other team . that mean that there will be a future for the family who be so badly affected . I be enormously grateful to the House and to the Backbench Business Committee for grant a debate on a subject that most people freely admit they know absolutely nothing about until bit of paper come across from my office . in particular , I thank Jon Mole from my office , who have contact nearly everybody ' s office and say , " what more do you need ? " , include those on the Front Bench , because it be really important that we have that knowledge . I remember say to he the other morning , " have you give that to so - and - so ? " , and he say , " yes , it ' s already go . " for instance , with the letter to the Prime Minister this morning , which I know the Minister receive , I be tell five minute before come into the Chamber that he have it . there be a lovely moment outside no . 10 with the family and the affected child and young people . little Lexi hand the letter in at the door of no . 10 be a very moving moment . let we hope that with the ministerial meeting we be go to have and with the great news about have partnership with Europe , rather than be run by Europe , which be really important , particularly with Horizon — [ interruption . ] member know I would get that in . let we hope that with those thing and with the nation of this country and this great Parliament come together and say , " we need to do something about this , " we can do it . fop affect so few people , but the scientific research could affect a lot of family and help they in the future . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider funding for the prevention of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva . cell and Gene therapy : Skills Provision Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) what a coincidence to have one debate about rare condition follow by another . I be pleased to have secure this debate on skill provision for new cell and gene therapy . the emergence of new cell and gene therapy , sometimes know as advanced therapy , offer real hope for patient with rare and genetic condition . many of these patient have so far face limited treatment option and endure great challenge associate with manage their condition long term . however , use the power of human biology , cell and gene therapy can address the root cause of disease rather than just their symptom , prevent disease progression and even save life . in many case , a single one - time treatment can be all that be need to alleviate a disease . not only do these therapy provide relief for patient from the need for lifelong treatment ; they could provide long - term cost offset by free up NHS resource and enable patient and their carer to be economically active . however , it be not only rare disease patient who stand to benefit from cell and gene therapy . as research continue , we could see a world where cancer patient can be effectively cure of their disease and where type 1 diabetes be address by enable the body to once again produce and regulate insulin . these development be huge for patient . that be a point that I want to stress , because in all these debate we need to remember who be at the centre of this new technology : it be people , live their life in the good way that they can , and want the good life and the good treatment possible . that require we to recognise that research and healthcare have not always be equitable and that patient decision to participate in clinical trial or receive treatment may be more complex than for conventional medicine , because of the very irreversible , one - off nature that make they so transformative . that be why ongoing patient and public involvement be so important , to build well relationship between researcher and patient and empower patient to make informed choice . I want to talk now about two of my constituent , Freddie and Louis . there be many story about the transformative effect of new gene therapy , but I will speak about the story of these two young brother . follow a long struggle by the boy ' parent , old brother Freddie be diagnose at 12 month with spinal muscular atrophy , a rare , genetic neuromuscular condition that cause progressive muscle wasting , as the Minister will know . Freddie be a happy , social and determined boy , and he have hugely benefit from access to the lifelong treatment nusinersen , which his family say have save his life and independence . however , they have face challenge and cost in secure the equipment need to allow Freddie to have the freedom he deserve , include fundraise for an all - terrain wheelchair that allow he to take part in as many activity as possible with his peer . as Freddie be diagnose with SMA , his young brother Louis be screen for SMA and diagnose before birth . as a result , Louis become the young pre - symptomatic baby in the UK with SMA type 2 to receive Zolgensma , a groundbreake new gene therapy , at just 18 day old . More than a year on from get that treatment , Louis have no sign or symptom of SMA and be expect to continue to grow and live his life free from the disease . as SMA be currently not screen for in the UK ' s newborn screening programme , Louis would not have receive such early intervention have it not be for Freddie ' s diagnosis . as cell and gene therapy tend to slow down or prevent disease progression , early intervention can be absolutely vital . for more patient to benefit , we need not only a more expansive newborn screening programme , but a cell and gene therapy sector equip for timely development and delivery of new treatment , many of which be become possible and available . at this stage , I acknowledge the work of LifeArc , which have publish a report on the future possibility for cell and gene therapy in the UK . the report highlight what we need to do to make the most of the opportunity that we have . so far , the timely development and delivery of new treatment be not guarantee . the very nature of cell and gene therapy mean that they be unlike standard off - the - shelf medicine . specific infrastructure be need to deliver they , from specialised manufacturing site to specialise equipment in hospital , as well as a specialised workforce , which be the focus of this debate . the number of cell and gene therapy come to market be expect to rise significantly in the come year , but the current picture suggest that staff shortage could hinder progress . there be therefore an urgent need to prioritise skill provision . we need a significant expansion of the cell and gene therapy workforce . study by the cell and gene therapy catapult show that the cell and gene therapy and bioprocessing industry in the UK currently employ nearly 7 , 000 people , and that the number of highly skilled role require be expect to more than double by 2026 . however , there be significant barrier to achieve that : the highly specialised and complex nature of advanced therapy make the sector particularly vulnerable to skill gap . what we need be a UK - wide strategy and plan to develop a workforce that possess the relevant skill that be desperately need by the industry . one hurdle be the limited public awareness , outside the academic world , of cell and gene therapy . improve the exposure of career pathway will be vital , especially for potential technician and other staff who will have less familiarity in the field . Proactive engagement with student as early as primary school could empower they to pursue career in cell and gene therapy . that could include bring scientist and industry expert into classroom , or a focus on understand rare condition , cancer and the transformative effect that treatment can have on patient ' life . heighten public awareness of the live experience of rare disease patient , and of the transformative potential of cell and gene therapy , should also feed through to high education , but as it be very much a specialist field , science , technology , engineering and math student need guidance on how to specialise . they also need to be equip with the basic lab skill and experience need to get start in the workforce , which be a particularly current issue for the industry . however , the industry will not be able to rely solely on new graduate . instead , it will need to draw on worker in decline industry , such as oil and gas production , and attract people who have not be to university . the Government need to support the CGT industry to access all those potential pool of recruitment by promote the visibility of the cell and gene therapy field and invest in training and development programme . a first port of call , for example , could be work with stakeholder to create a central platform for job , training and education opportunity in the sector , so that those interested in the industry need only go to one place to find the information they need . most critically , the Government need to play an active role in equip candidate with the skill they need , work with academia and industry to create a national strategy for placement and internship . for non - graduate or those change career , we should be take advantage of the cell and gene therapy catapult ' s exist advanced therapy apprenticeship community and advanced therapy skill train network . with ringfenced funding and the convene power of Government , the Government could help to expand those scheme into a national training framework , to develop a sustainable workforce pipeline . training bursary may also need to be provide for those change career , so that adult worker can learn new skill without lose income . at the moment , training academy run by well - fund individual company risk undermine collective training effort , fragment training standard and deplete the workforce pool for small and medium - sized enterprise . to tackle that , we need new form of accreditation that can guarantee consistent and quality practice . we should also find way to incentivise company to share their knowledge to the benefit of the whole sector . of course , many of these issue relate to the development and manufacturing of cell and gene therapy , but if patient be to benefit from these new treatment , NHS staff must also be train to deliver they , or we could end up in a situation where treatment be available but patient can not access they . there be also a risk of geographic and socioeconomic inequity in access to advanced therapy . without proper planning and preparation to ensure health service readiness , some patient could be disadvantage base on where they live . that be why we need a national vision to ensure an equitable , standardised approach to the expansion of the cell and gene therapy field and the training of NHS staff . accreditation passport , a central learn hub and provision of flexible , blended training opportunity could all come into play . geographic consideration be important more broadly within the sector and life science as a whole . while much of the UK ' s life science industry be concentrate in the golden triangle , the cell and gene therapy industry be generally well distribute . my local enterprise partnership in the north - east have identify cell and gene therapy as a key area of growth for the future , and the sector could offer job for people with various level of qualification across the region . we have to make sure that we be capture the talent and experience of people across the UK , not just in London , Oxford and Cambridge . we also need to ensure that there be research facility look at rare disease right across the UK . Newcastle be a key centre , and the north - east have an important part to play ; I would like to stress that . the cell and gene therapy sector must work with local authority to develop more locally responsive recruitment and regional skill pipeline , with great information sharing between manufacturer and treatment centre to ensure that patient demand be meet . there be a lot of consideration here , but first and foremost what we need be a strategy — a strategy that will not only plan for the expansion of the sector but do so in a manner that put patient need and care at the heart of its goal , because that be what this be all about . it be important that patient be listen to in all this and that plan be put in place not only to develop and deploy treatment but to ensure that patient be support prior to , during and after receive new therapy . as we upskill people to get involve in this space , we need to imbue they with an intimate understanding of the life of the people they be work to treat , so that they might well serve their need and understand their priority . I hope that the Minister can today provide assurance that his Government plan on deliver a detailed strategy to support the expansion of the cell and gene therapy sector , to allow patient equitable access to treatment that stand to transform their life . we have so many opportunity now , and we need to make the most of they for those who be affect by rare condition and rare disease . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) on secure this important debate . before I get into the substance of the debate , I want specifically to thank she for raise the issue of SMA and Freddie ' s case . to answer that specific point directly , because it be an issue that I be alive to — I allude to it in the previous debate just a few moment ago — my understanding be that the University of Sheffield be currently undertake work that specifically relate to SMA and the gathering of evidence to present to the National Screening Committee . I hope that will be welcome news , and as there be development , I will certainly keep the hon . Lady update . the hon . Lady be absolutely right when she say that a highly skilled workforce be critical to develop these therapy and make sure that UK patient benefit . the right training and education will also provide those join this hugely important industry with a rewarding career that they can be proud of . the UK be a leader in cell and gene therapy : nearly a quarter of Europe ' s cell and gene therapy developer be headquarter in this country . the number of cell and gene therapy clinical trial conduct in the United Kingdom also continue to increase , from 28 phase 3 trial in 2020 to 44 in 2022 . as the hon . Lady mention , the number of cell and gene therapy come to market be set to increase substantially , with over 1 , 500 clinical trial ongoe worldwide . although the Government be fund many skill initiative to prepare for that expansion , collaboration with industry , charity , the healthcare sector and — crucially — UK academia be also vital . the cell and gene therapy catapult , which be part fund through Innovate UK , be a key part of that collaborative approach , which provide practical training and identify the skill that be need across the sector . the advanced therapy apprenticeship community , which be set up by the cell and gene therapy catapult with £ 1 . 5 million from the industrial challenge fund , be the first apprenticeship programme design to train individual in develop , manufacturing and — of course — deliver innovative advanced therapy at scale . that award - win programme have support over 300 apprentice , employ by 56 company . in addition , the catapult have set up new state - of - the - art skill and training laboratory in Stevenage to sit at the heart of the world ' s third large cluster of advanced therapy company . in its late cell and gene therapy skill demand survey , the catapult forecast a skill demand of 10 , 000 bioprocesse job by 2026 , a growth of 151 % . early this year , at the May 2023 life science growth moment , we announce £ 54 . 5 million to boost UK medicine manufacturing , which include up to £ 38 million for a new biomanufacturing fund . on 5 September — this go specifically to the point about education and school — we announce that £ 5 . 5 million of the life science growth funding would be use to establish a medicine manufacturing skill centre of excellence . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : we want to encourage more people , and young people in particular , to consider a career in this field . upskille talent from similar industry will also help to increase capacity . back by £ 4 . 7 million of Government funding , the advanced therapy skill training network be a national initiative to drive growth across the advanced therapy and vaccine manufacturing industry . it have support over 3 , 285 learner to date , provide training and support uptake of new talent from different sector while , vitally , also upskille exist staff . clinical staff also need support to conduct research and learn new method of deliver treatment . the advanced therapy treatment centre network be a world - first network operate within our NHS . Co - ordinate by the cell and gene therapy catapult , it address the challenge of bring advanced therapy to patient . the ATTC have produce learning tool , include a knowledge - share platform , with more than 270 resource , which have have more than 28 , 000 hit worldwide . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) as be raise multiple time in the previous debate , the National Institute for Health and Care Research support the development of researcher , include through its £ 790 million investment in the biomedical research centre , of which 14 out of 20 currently conduct research into cell and gene therapy . cell and gene therapy be also a strategic priority for the Medical Research Council , and it will be launch its update advanced therapeutic strategy , which include support for skill and training , later this year . between 2011 and 2022 , the Medical Research Council fund over £ 30 million in advanced therapy - focus fellowship . it have also recently launch — I be afraid this be go to be difficult to say , as it be a bit of a mouthful — a cell and oligonucleotide therapy fellowship , in partnership with AstraZeneca , which aim to develop link with industry through secondment , training and mentoring . innovation hub for cell and gene therapy , which be an £ 18 million strategic initiative with co - funding from the MRC , the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and LifeArc , have publish a skill and training strategy that set out how it will support skill in the sector . we recognise that we need a skilled , innovative and responsive cell and gene therapy regulatory workforce — that be absolutely key — and I be pleased to say that the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency be work with partner across the UK health ecosystem to create fast , risk - proportionate and predictable regulatory pathway , which be underpin by the recruitment and training of highly qualified expert assessor . this will support innovation and create a compelling reason for company to introduce new medical product in the UK . in closing , let I again thank the hon . member for Blaydon for secure this important debate . the UK already have the skill to deliver new therapy , but she be absolutely right to point out that it be vital that we continue to invest to ensure we have the right staff with the right skill to develop and harness the potential of these hugely exciting new therapy . question put and agree to . House adjourn .