as have be mention , only one Football League club be represent by a Conservative MP , and that be the mighty Bromley football club . my effort to bring about a chant of " you ' ve get the only Tory " across opposition stand in league two be ongoing , and I will keep the House inform of how well they proceed . Hayes Lane , the club ' s ground since 1938 , stand proudly in my constituency . Bromley FC be a football fan ' s dream . we have go from strength to strength in recent year . earn promotion to the conference south league in 2006 , the club be crown champion eight year later . we climb the national league , reach the fa trophy final in 2018 and earn promotion in 2021 , but our rise do not stop there . Bromley face Ryan Reynolds ' s Wrexham at Wembley for a second shot at the FA trophy in 2022 . it be an amazing day , and one that I remember well . while we may not have have " Deadpool " , we do have Michael Cheek — Cheeky , the Maradona of Bromley — who secure the silverware with the game ' s only goal . I love Michael Cheek , and I congratulate he on be name league two player of the year last night ; it be well deserve . last year , a moment 132 year in the making arrive as Bromley be promote to the English football league for the first time in its history . why be this story relevant ? Bromley ' s football dream be realise thank to sound management , private investment and raw talent , not a state regulator , and I congratulate Robin Stanton - Gleaves , Mark Hammond — Hammo — and Andy " Woody " Woodman on all that they have do for the club . as a Ravens fan , when I look at Labour ' s supposedly independent football regulator , I have to ask whether it would help Bromley FC or aspire club like it , and in its current state , the answer be a resound no . when the Bill be first propose , it be propose with the right intention . it would protect cherished community club from bad owner , and would prevent a breakaway european super league . however , Labour ' s regulator be morph into a meddling , costly political deadweight for english football , because the regulator will be neither independent nor impartial . this be cronyism at its bad . supporter of low league football club know the score : relegation all but confirm , millionaire financier abandon , desperately cling on to former glory , leaky at the back , midfield absent , not much go on up top , leadership completely out of their depth — but enough about the conservative party . despite the Conservatives ' attempt to turn this debate into a game of two face , I have a serious point . in 2008 , business partner Yasuaki Kagami and George Synan become majority shareholder at Plymouth Argyle , which have be shortlist to host game at the 2018 world cup , have England ' s bid be successful . it be not , of course , so their interest in the club collapse . finance be withhold and Argyle , with one eye on the premier league , be relegate to the championship , then league one and then league two , in the space of three year . they be on the brink of insolvency before they be rescue by James Brent . english football club such as Argyle should never become cash cow for vulture such as Kagami and Synan . our large club should never become money launder operation for oligarch tie to murderous dictator . our football club be the beat heart of our community , around which local economy thrive ; identity , friendship and rivalry be forge ; and our culture be export . I broadly welcome this Bill for the regulation of ownership that it will introduce , but there be no mention of slavery or human right in the ownership test . will the Government answer whether they consider those issue important in the fit and proper ownership of club ? I have one more point . it be unfortunate that the Government vote down an amendment from the Lords that would have reduce gambling advertisement and sponsorship in english football . there be an obvious opportunity here to protect our young people from a toxic industry that deliberately prey on the vulnerable . I do not often give too much credit to arsenal alumnus , but I know that Paul Merson would have want this . will the Government tell I why they vote down that amendment ? I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the debate on this important piece of legislation and what it will mean for football fan in Hertford and Stortford , thousand of whom travel week in , week out to premier league game in London , to which we be ably link by our rail service . before I turn to the specific measure in the Bill , I would like to touch on why football be so important to community such as mine . since my election in July last year , it have be a pleasure to visit and watch a number of the non - league club across Hertford and Stortford , and to meet some of the manager , coach , player and volunteer who keep they go and bring our community together . so many player at non - league club such as those go on to much large team in the future , too . we can not overestimate the importance of grassroots football in our community , and I pay tribute to Bishop ' s Stortford football club , Sawbridgeworth Town FC , Hertford Town football club and Ware football club . I particularly pay tribute to Ware and Sawbridgeworth , which have just avoid relegation in the late season . I would also like to briefly update the House on the 93rd birthday of John Staines . some member may remember that I have raise the topic of Hertford Town football club ' s drive to get 1 , 000 people down to their game against Flackwell Heath to mark John ' s birthday follow more than 60 year of dedicated support for the club , 30 of they as a volunteer . it be heartwarme to see our community turn out to recognise John ' s contribution to the club , and I be pleased to report that we see just over 1 , 000 people turn out in Hertford to do so . it have become apparent in recent year that we need to protect our game , and I applaud the Bill ' s aim of protect and promote the sustainability of english football in the interest of fan and the local community that football club serve . I welcome its core objective of ensure sound club finance and systemic financial resilience and safeguard club heritage . in particular , the creation of an independent football regulator be most welcome , deliver on this Government ' s manifesto commitment to protect club and empower fan . in the time I have leave , I want to mention one quick point that be raise with I by some of our non - league club ahead of this debate , which I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could address . club have highlight the disparity in contract regulation between non - league and professional football ; currently , non - league player can be offer a full - time contract only at the age of 18 , while in professional football player can be contract at 17 . to ensure fairness to our grassroot club , will the Secretary of State consider equalise the age at which non - league club and professional club can offer full - time contract to player in the future ? it have be my absolute pleasure to spend time speak to our local non - league club . I know that our resident be immensely passionate about football , and it be fantastic that this Bill be be bring forward to put our fan right at the heart of that great game .