prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] first of all , may I wish everybody a happy new year ? let ' s hope for a peaceful one . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Ukraine : Military Support what step he be take to increase military support for Ukraine . this be day 1 , 049 of Russia ' s brutal , illegal , full - scale invasion of Ukraine , and 2025 will be the critical year in the conflict . my job as Defence Secretary be to put Ukrainians in the strong possible position on the battlefield and at any negotiating table , so throughout 2025 , we will develop UK training , strengthen defence industrial co - operation , increase pressure with ally on Russia , and step up and speed up military aid to Ukraine . I welcome the recent announcement of £ 225 million in new military assistance to Ukraine . alongside that , we must continue to step up our effort to pressure Russia . follow the report damage to a major undersea cable in the Baltic over Christmas , which finnish authority suggest may be link to a shadow fleet vessel , what further action be the UK take alongside european ally to undermine the russian shadow fleet ? my hon . friend be right in general term : russian aggression be not simply confine to Ukraine , and we all see what happen on Christmas day . we be deeply concerned about the damage and sabotage to undersea cable . I can confirm to the House that for the first time the joint expeditionary force — the JEF — have activate an advanced UK - lead reaction system to track potential threat to undersea infrastructure and to monitor the movement of the russian shadow fleet . that will be run out of the stand joint force headquarters at Northwood . the Secretary of State say that his aim be to ensure that Ukraine be in the " strong possible position " , but for what ? do he intend to support Ukraine in command she internationally recognise border or to ensure that the de facto border , which exclude Donbas and Crimea , become a more permanent feature ? quite simply , our job as the UK be to support Ukraine in its fight and , if and when it decide to talk , to support it in any negotiation . it be the Ukrainians who be fight ; it be the Ukrainians who decide when to start talk ; and it be for the Ukrainians to decide on what term they may start talk . AUKUS procurement : sme what step he be take to ensure that sme be able to participate in AUKUS procurement . the AUKUS partnership will create new contract opportunity for hundred of small and medium - sized firm . it will create 7 , 000 new job both in UK shipyard and across the UK supply chain . as the Secretary of State know , under the defence equipment plan about half of MOD expenditure be on equipment , with around 40 % of that go overseas . what impact do the Secretary of State think that the Government ' s abolition of business property relief and the massive increase in national insurance will have on UK sme ' ability to compete in the defence sector with our AUKUS ally follow the previous Government ' s signing of that agreement ? it be certainly the case , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly recognise , that in government the Conservatives be too often largely blind to where british firm be base and to where the contract that they be ready to award go . this Government have come into power commit not just to strengthen UK security but to boost the UK economy . that mean design , make and buy more in Britain . Defence Spending : 2 . 5 % of GDP what his target date be for increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the Government be deliver for defence by increase defence spending . there be already £ 3 billion extra for next year , and a commitment to set a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . it be all very well spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but we have to spend it on the right kit . over the weekend I note a story about our NATO ally be frustrate with Britain for not invest in appropriate missile defence system . as the Secretary of State meet his 2 . 5 % commitment , will he commit to invest in surface - to - air missile , precision and hypersonic missile system , DragonFire laser system and counter - drone block technology to ensure that the British Army be the most advanced and able in the western world ? the UK have for many year be one of the high spender on defence in NATO . we continue to hold that proud record . increase spending this year will mean that Britain continue to be one of the high spender in NATO . I remind the hon . Gentleman that the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % on defence be in 2010 under the previous Labour Government — a level of defence spending that be not match once during the 14 year in which his party be in government . we come to the Chair of the Defence Committee . on defence spending , I be glad that UK - base defence firm will be prioritise for Government investment under the defence industrial strategy , which should boost british job in constituency such as Slough and help to strengthen national security , but major defence programme be currently in disarray , with only two out of 49 on time and on budget . what action be the Government take to fix the waste and mismanagement in the system ? my hon . friend be right . everyone agree that more need to be spend on defence to meet the increase threat . he ask why only two out of 49 of the major defence project be on time and on budget . that question may well be direct at the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who be responsible for exactly that up until the election six month ago . there be of course a question about how much we spend , but there be also a challenge in how well we spend it . the shadow Armed Forces Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , be one of the strong critic of the previous Government and of what he describe as the " broken " procurement system . we be get a grip of MOD budget , drive deep reform in defence and ensure that we reduce the waste and delay in procurement contract . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the Minister for Veterans and People , the hon . and gallant Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , on receive a distinguished service order — we be all proud of he . the Government have tie the announcement of their timetable for 2 . 5 % to the publication of the strategic defence review , so we need it to be publish as soon as possible . will the Secretary of State clarify why he have push back the SDR ' s publication in Parliament from the spring to the summer ? I have not do that . the work of the reviewer lead the strategic defence review be thorough and flat out . the review have be widely contribute to and be the first of its kind in this country , allow fresh thinking in defence planning . on the 2 . 5 % commitment , as we say in the plan for change , we will set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . the Government be deliver on defence and defence reform ; we will deliver on defence funding , too . the Secretary of State say that publication have not be push back , but I remind the House that at the previous Defence question on 18 November last year , the Secretary of State be ask specifically about SDR timing and say : " the reviewer will report in the spring . " — [ Official Report , 18 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 4 . ] however , in a write answer to I on 17 December — just before the House rise — a Defence Minister say : " the Reviewers will make their final report to the Prime Minister , Chancellor of the Exchequer and Defence Secretary in the first half of 2025 . the Secretary of State for Defence will subsequently report the Strategic Defence Review to Parliament . " if the first part be in the first six month of the year , even I can see that the second part , which be subsequent to that , will happen in the second half of the year . that be not the spring , be it ? we be dance on the head of a pin here — the spring be in the first half of the year . I think the hon . Gentleman should take my word to this House and to he , which have be consistent that the strategic defence review will report in the spring . it will report directly to the Prime Minister , to the Chancellor and to I , and I will update the House directly . we will also set out our clear path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . support for Veterans what step he be take to improve support for veteran . what step he be take to improve support for veteran . what step he be take to improve support for veteran . what step he be take to support veteran . what step he be take to improve support for veteran . what step he be take to improve support for veteran . what step he be take to improve support for veteran . congratulation , Minister , on the DSO . thank you , Mr Speaker . this Government have already take swift action to demonstrate our commitment to renew this nation ' s contract with those who have serve . we have award £ 3 . 7 million in veteran ’ housing grant , veteran will be exempt from the local connection test for social housing in England , and veteran card be now accept ID for election . we have launch a £ 75 million LGBT financial redress scheme ; Op Fortitude , Op Courage and Op Restore be all progress at pace ; and we be currently review how we can make veteran ' support more institutionally resilient . this demonstrate that we have a bias for action , and this Government be deliver for defence . last year , I have the pleasure of meeting Tim Latter , a Royal Navy veteran and owner of Grindhouse gym in Tatenhill . after face his own mental health challenge , Tim set up that gym and launch Project I got your six , which be an inspire fitness coach programme design for the military , but also a way for people to talk openly about their mental health . what step be this Government take to support veteran with their mental health after their service ? perhaps the Minister would like to meet Tim with I , to see the amazing work he do . I thank my hon . friend for a really relevant question . it be essential that we cater for both the physical and psychological impact of service on those who have serve . Op Courage have already have 35 , 000 referral . I congratulate Tim Latter on the work he have do , and I would be glad to visit his gym — and perhaps do a little phy with he — to see how it help veteran ' mental progression in due course . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to a new armed force covenant . will the provision apply to local council , so that we see Conservative Hillingdon council end its unfair parking charge on military personnel and their family in service accommodation — an issue that be raise with I recently when the Secretary of State visit to announce the welcome investment in military housing — and we can finally say that Hillingdon put our hero first ? I thank my hon . friend for what , again , be a very important question . I ask he to write to I on the specific issue of Hillingdon council and parking . the important underlying fact be that we have to put the covenant into law — we have make that commitment , and it will happen within the next two year . we will deliver it , and hopefully we will eradicate the postcode lottery in support to veteran across the country . I welcome this Government ' s quick action to deliver on our promise to veteran of make veteran ID card an accepted form of voter ID , which rightly ensure access to election for those who have serve to protect our freedom . will the Minister work with colleague across government to ensure that veteran be make aware of that very important change ? it take we four month from start the process to get the veteran ID card recognise as voter ID , which be superb . we will move this matter forward , and I would love to discuss it in more detail . I highlight that it be not only a physical ID card : we now also have a digital card , which be increase veteran ’ ability to register with all the different service available . will the Minister join I in congratulate East Riding of Yorkshire council on achieve the armed force covenant employer recognition scheme gold award , and pay tribute to both the council leader Anne Handley and our armed force champion Councillor Liam Dealtry for their role in achieve that ? could he also tell the House what he be do to encourage more organisation to achieve this high standard in veteran ’ support ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point , and congratulate the people he have mention on sign up to the covenant duty , which be superb . they join about 12 , 400 other who have give their signature , which be a fantastic example of british society stand up to support veteran . in due course , I would like to visit and meet they when we get a chance . in Shipley constituency , there be over 3 , 000 veteran . I have enjoy meet local veteran recently , and I invite my hon . friend to join I in thank they for their service . however , with the number of homeless veteran household in England reach 2 , 270 in the year 2023 - 24 , will the Minister assure I that veteran in Shipley constituency will receive the housing support they need ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the veteran of Shipley . it be essential , especially over the Christmas period and the next three or four month , that anyone who need a roof over their head have one . that be why Op Fortitude be really move at pace : we have have just under 3 , 000 referral , and over 800 veteran have be put into housing . I would say that if anyone have any veteran in their constituency , please get they to go on to gov . uk and look at the service available . there be plenty of service out there to get those individual into housing as fast as possible . it be welcome in Falkirk that this Government be determined to renew this nation ' s contract with those who have serve and their family . can the Minister assure veteran in Falkirk that this Government ' s work to strengthen the reach and practical application of the armed force covenant will be a major focus for his Department in 2025 ? absolutely . as a fellow Scot , I take that very seriously , and I will be visit there at the end of this week . I have already meet the scottish Veterans Minister , and I want to champion good practice and mutual understanding between England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland to ensure that we can all learn off each other and deliver the most and good service for veteran in due course . as a former councillor , I know that many veteran can find themselves at a disadvantage when try to access service , include social housing . veteran face housing challenge not only in Bathgate and Linlithgow , but across the country . with many scottish council and indeed the Scottish Government have declare a housing emergency , will the Minister advise the House what engagement he have have with the Scottish Government to ensure that the housing need of veteran be prioritise ? my hon . friend highlight a pretty important point . the Government as a whole be push forward to deliver house at a fast rate over the next five year than , I hope , ever before . veteran will be include in that , and when I come to Scotland at the end of the week these be exactly the issue I will be talk to the scottish Veterans Minister about . Operation Prosper be launch in April 2024 to support veteran into work after they leave the armed force . do the Minister expect to continue the funding for Operation Prosper after the conclusion of the spending review ? as we move forward , we will be involve in the SDR and look at support veteran into transition and employment in due course . a large proportion of veteran who leave service go into employment . we want to continue that and increase the percentage over time . Service Dogs UK be a charity dedicate to support armed force and emergency service veteran with post - traumatic stress disorder . since open its south - west hub in Somerton in 2020 , it have match rescue dog with veteran across Somerset and the wide south - west , give veteran an opportunity to manage their ptsd and move on with their life . will the Minister join I in congratulate the charity , and will the Government support such charity to expand their crucial work ? the charity have my full congratulation on the work it be do . have pet such as a dog provide psychological comfort and friend , especially for people heal from some of the psychological impact of service or indeed combat , and I fully support it . if the hon . member would like to discuss at a later date how we could push that forward , she should please reach out to I . just before Christmas , we have the welcome announcement of a new veteran commissioner in Northern Ireland , Mr David Johnstone . although I be sure the Minister will join I in wish he well in his new post , it be a part - time post , it have only two seconded staff and it be not on a statutory basis like elsewhere . will the Government put that post on a statutory basis so that the many veteran in Northern Ireland can have the service they deserve ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for his important question . first , we must get the armed force covenant into law , which should cover a large proportion of the veteran support mechanism . I congratulate David Johnstone on take up his post ; I phone he just before the Christmas recess . I be excited and look forward to work with he and ensure that the unique attribute of veteran in Northern Ireland be account for and represent in the correct manner . Maggie Haynes be the founder of Tuppenny Barn , a horticultural therapy charity in my constituency , and she be a veteran herself . she establish a female veteran course after observe that the challenge face by woman leave the armed force combine with poor communication from the MOD be leave they unaware of the service available to they . what be the Minister do to improve support for female veteran ? we be work on our armed force strategy , part of which will be a specific section for female veteran . we understand the nuance and difficulty of female veteran leave service and try to find employment or link employment with family life and so forth , so we be push that forward really hard . again , I would be very pleased to discuss that with the hon . member in due course . I thank the veteran Minister for his answer . in previous question in this Chamber I have suggest to the Minister that he might wish to visit beyond the Battlefield , a charity in my constituency that give the only care for soldier whenever they have fall on bad time . will the Minister make time available to come and see what we do with that charity in Portavogie and Strangford as an example for everyone else ? later this week I be go to Scotland , and we will do Wales and then Northern Ireland in due course , and when I visit I would be honour to come to see the good work the charity be do . Armed Forces Commissioner : appointment what progress he have make on appoint an independent armed force commissioner . this Labour Government be deliver for defence and the landmark Armed Forces Commissioner Bill be the first step in renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . the commissioner will be appoint follow the passage of the primary legislation establish the role . the Bill pass Committee stage in the Commons in December and I look forward to report stage in due course . I thank the Minister for his response . as an ex - rifleman , I have see at first hand the negative impact of shoddy care and equipment on service personnel ' s mental and physical health . what will instal an armed force commissioner do to make their standard of live well ? I thank my hon . friend for his service . it be absolutely vital that the voice of armed force personnel and their family be listen to more . that be why we be establish in the commissioner an independent champion for armed force and their family . the commissioner will have an independent role , be able to scrutinise the action of the armed force and report to Parliament rather than to Ministers , and will not be beholden to the whim of either any Government of the day or the chain of command . that independence will allow the commissioner to scrutinise general service welfare matter , shine a spotlight on the issue that really matter to those who serve in uniform and their family . the Government have say that part of their inspiration for the Armed Forces Commissioner be such a role in Germany , yet Germany have a parliamentary armed force commissioner . why be there that difference and why , in line with what the Minister say in an early answer , can we trust the independence of this new appointment ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that the german armed force commissioner be part of the inspiration for the role . Dr Eva H ö gl be a superb example of how we can scrutinise and champion the armed force and provide solution and a voice to those who serve . she sit effectively as a Member of Parliament in the German Parliament , which we do not feel be appropriate for the UK Armed Forces Commissioner , but the independence and the way she have pioneer much of that work in recent year be a real inspiration to we . we hope that such a workable example from a key NATO ally — people can raise issue with she and shine a spotlight on those issue to improve service welfare matter and as a result improve morale and the operational effectiveness of the armed force — will give strength to the independence of the role . I call the shadow Minister . during debate on the Bill in Committee I raise the worrying issue that under the Treasury ' s propose inheritance tax change , service personnel who be unmarried but in a long - term relationship could have their partner ' s service benefit tax should they die while in service . the Forces Pension Society have rightly highlight that that would be totally contrary to the spirit of the armed force covenant . have the Minister yet raise this with the Treasury , as we strongly suggest last month he should , and if so what progress have be make ? as the right hon . Gentleman will recall from the Bill Committee , which in parliamentary sitting day be only a few day ago , we be raise issue around a number of thing , include the one he raise . it be subject to a consultation , as he know , so a decision have not be make . it be a responsibility for the Treasury , rather than the Ministry of Defence , but I undertake to write to he , and I will do so . housing : Military Personnel and family what step he be take to improve housing for military personnel and their family . what progress he have make on improve military accommodation . what step he be take to improve housing for military personnel and their family . I thank my hon . friend for raise an exceptionally important matter . the deal to sell off most of our service family accommodation in 1996 , then rent it back and upgrade it , be probably one of the bad deal I can think of . the recent Annington home deal , support by those on both side of the House , be deliver at speed by this Government , and it save this country and the taxpayer £ 600 , 000 a day , or £ 230 million a year . it put we back in the drive seat of own all our family accommodation . it allow we to renovate or rebuild as require over the next five to 10 year and long into the future . in the medium to long term , we have a once - in - a - generation , lifetime opportunity to rebuild all our accommodation . may I wish a happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , to member and to constituent in North Somerset ? Morale in our military hit record low under the last government , and I be proud that this Government have already deliver the large pay rise for the force in more than 20 year . do the Minister agree that this housing deal be the next practical step in the action that this Government be deliver to improve service life for dedicated personnel ? my hon . friend make an important point . I have live in some of the accommodation and I have see how bad it be , and this deal will allow we to change that . over time we will have a chance , save £ 230 million a year , to give the people who serve this country the deal they deserve when it come to housing . during my service in the late ' 80 , through the ' 90 and into the early 2000 , I have the pleasure of have to live in military accommodation . its poor condition be discuss almost weekly . roll forward 20 year , and we be still have the same discussion . can minister please assure I that they will now seriously get a grip of that and , through the strategic defence review , give some clear programme delivery date for when we will deliver for our force ? absolutely . as part of the SDR , we will set out our new defence housing strategy . we will look at how we take Annington , build on it and improve the housing available for those who serve in our armed force . as a member of a force family , I welcome the Government ' s landmark decision to renationalise service housing . for too long , military family have be live in substandard accommodation . how will the Minister ensure that this investment lead to tangible improvement ? in what timescale can our servicemen and servicewoman expect to see those improvement start ? we be buy back , we be break it down and we will build back up . that will be part of a comprehensive plan across the country and across 36 , 000 home over time . it will look to deliver housing that be fit for those who serve and the family member who be often leave behind when those individual deploy . I have absolute confidence that we will deliver that , in conjunction with independent body as well as those in defence . the Minister have already refer to his successful £ 6 billion deal to repurchase the MOD housing estate from Annington . it will give member of our armed force the opportunity to have their home refurbish , which they have long for , for a very long time . have he manage to persuade the Treasury that he will need to provide further fund to pump - prime these improvement ? if so , how will he strengthen the hitherto very poor management of our military housing estate ? as part of our new defence housing strategy , we will look at how we will manage that estate as a whole and whether we will do it completely differently . as part of the SDR , we will look at how we will pump - prime some of that to get build back across the whole defence estate , bear in mind that there be 36 , 000 house and some of they have be in situ for about 50 year and will need to be knock down and rebuild . under the previous arrangement between the Ministry of Defence and Annington , £ 100 million be release for accommodation upgrade in the first seven year of that arrangement . what due diligence be carry out ahead of the sale ? what additional investment will be make in the married quarter that the Government have bring back into the MOD ' s ownership ? this be one of the good deal that defence have do in a long time . it have buy back 36 , 000 home , save the taxpayer £ 600 , 000 a day or £ 230 million over a year . we be in discussion with the Treasury now about where that money go and how it will be use in the future , but I assure the hon . member that the rebuild plan will be within the defence housing strategy as part of the SDR . since October 2023 , more than 5 , 000 Afghans eligible for support via the afghan relocation and assistance policy have be move into Ministry of Defence service family accommodation — both transitional and then settle service family accommodation — under Operation Lazurite . how many SFA house in the defence estate be currently be use to house afghan family ? what be the plan for their onward movement once their three - year eligibility for settle service family accommodation have elapse ? I thank the hon . member for that really important question . we have a duty of care to those from Afghanistan who be now live in the UK and we be absolutely committed to deliver on that . I will write to he in due course on the specific of his question . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in 2023 , there be over 5 , 000 report of damp and mould in service accommodation . member of the armed force be willing to put their life on the line to support the freedom that we take for grant , so it be inconceivable that they and their family be force to live in home fill with damp and mould . now that the MOD have agree to buy back thousand of these family home , will the Government commit to ensure that all service family accommodation meet the minimum standard for social housing as set out in the decent home standard ? we already do that . the reality be that a large proportion of these house be build 50 to 60 year ago , so the thick insulation and double - skinned wall that we would see as commonplace just do not exist . the Annington deal be therefore such a good one , as it allow we to refurbish or rebuild as require . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with his US counterpart on military support for Ukraine . the Labour Government be deliver for defence by step up and speed up support for Ukraine . in December , we announce an additional package of artillery , air defence and drone . the Defence Secretary hold regular discussion with his US counterpart on how good to support Ukraine , most recently on 16 November . I thank the Minister for his reply . last year , Bath and North East Somerset council enter into a formal agreement with the city of Oleksandriia , provide medical support as well as strengthen cultural and community tie . in talk with the incoming US Government , will the Minister ensure that they be aware of the endure and deep solidarity that the british people feel towards the people of Ukraine in their effort to defeat a brutal aggressor ? I thank the hon . member — my fellow south - west MP — for her advocacy of that as well as the people of Bath who have open their home to so many ukrainian family , as have family right across the country . it be vital that we continue to support not only Ukraine to stay in the fight to protect its sovereignty and freedom but those Ukrainians in the United Kingdom and in Ukraine to ensure that they can go about normal life as much as possible . the Government support that work and will continue support Ukraine for as long as it take . the Secretary of State and the Minister have put Britain ' s military production capability at the heart of the Government ' s support for Ukraine . I wonder what opportunitie the Minister spy for transatlantic co - operation in that regard . may I make a special plea that the whole defence team discuss plan for develop our industrial capacity with regional mayor so that job and factory can be set up and develop around the country , include in region like my own ? it be vital that we continue to support Ukraine and build our industrial capacity in the United Kingdom and across the NATO alliance to ensure that Ukraine can fight not only tonight but tomorrow . part of that be about increase the industrial supply of not just UK manufacturer but indigenous manufacturer within Ukraine itself . build that great industrial capacity be something that the Government take seriously . that be why the Secretary of State and the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry have publish the outline of the defence industrial strategy . we will continue to work with partner at both national and international level — and additionally at a regional and local level — to ensure that we have the industrial capacity and skill require to restock our own supply and continue to support Ukraine . Defence Industrial Strategy : sme what step he plan to take through the defence industrial strategy to increase support for defence sector sme . we be deliver for defence , boost spending by £ 3 billion in real term this come financial year . I hope that more of our procurement spend can go to sme . the defence industrial strategy will set the condition to unlock the full potential of sme , to seize future opportunity and ensure the growth and resilience of our defence manufacturing base , provide more good job in every nation and region . the North East Technology Park in Sedgefield be home to many innovative defence business , produce satellite technology and biological and radiation detection equipment that be use by our ally across the world . those business proudly contract directly with the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency , NASA , the American Defense Department and other allied government , but too often they struggle with MOD procurement rule , which exclude sme . will the Minister meet I and netpark business to discuss how to remove the red tape that hit small business in my constituency and across the country that be design and produce innovative defence supply ? first , I would be happy to meet my hon . friend and his North East Technology Park business as soon as possible . the Government recognise that sme face particular challenge , which I want to address . through the defence industrial strategy we will reduce barrier to entry and foster a more diverse community of supplier , include non - traditional sme and those that be develop future technology . we will also send a clear market signal about our preference to grow onshore production capability . as part of the defence industrial strategy , do the Minister of State recognise the link between successful defence vehicle manufacturing , such as Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land manufacture the Challenger 3 tank in my constituency , and the onshoring of barrel technology and defence engineering ? do she recognise the link between that skill cluster and the importance of company such as RBSL have a future in manufacturing not just vehicle but barrel ? I look forward to her visit to my constituency in the come day . I do not disagree at all . I look forward to visit the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and to see the potential of firm . he be completely correct that cluster of excellence and skill be the way forward . I look forward to visit his constituency shortly . the defence sector support one in 60 of our job in this country — more than 400 , 000 well - pay job that be central to this Government ' s growth mission and to our nation ' s security . however , the majority of those job be outside London and the south - east . therefore , growth and — crucially — engagement with defence and security be inhibit for young people in constituency such as mine . will the Minister confirm that the key ambition of our defence industrial strategy will be to broaden access to the defence sector in every region , include constituency such as mine ? I be happy to accept that point , and I agree . plenty of job and skill will be need around the country in every nation and region , so that we improve matter everywhere . Christmas come early for the UK defence industry when Spain place an order for 25 Eurofighters on 20 December , and Italy follow suit on the 24th . but there be still nothing from the UK Government on the 25 Typhoon jet that be need for the RAF . will the Minister spread some festive cheer into the new year , and give we an update on where the Government be with place that order for 25 Typhoon fighter jet — a delay Christmas present for the UK defence industry and the RAF ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s point . it be certainly true that export be important , in addition to production for our own use . we be work very hard on the export campaign . I can not say any more than that at present , but I can assure he that we be work very hard . the rest of our spend on such matter be part of the SDR . once that be complete , there will be conclusion . it might not be a Christmas present — I do not know when his birthday be — but a present some time later . I call the shadow Minister . on defence industrial strategy , the new amphibious multi - role support ship be several year away — a point the Armed Forces Minister obviously appreciate when , in opposition last January , he write to his local paper to say that scrap HMS Albion and Bulwark would be bad for our national security , for the Royal Navy and for Devonport . when the Defence Committee look at this issue a few year ago , it firmly conclude that the decision would be " militarily illiterate " , yet today the Ministry of Defence be all for it . even if the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry do not agree with the Defence Committee , do she at least agree with the Armed Forces Minister that these vital ship should be retain ? neither of the ship have be at sea for year — one since 2022 and the other since 2017 — and neither be due to go back out to sea before their out - of - service date . the question of who might be say to have scrap they be moot ; the ship have not be scrap , but we take the tough decision in November to retire age capability , so that we can save the money for deal with the threat that we will face in future . veteran ' Housing what step his Department be take to ensure that veteran have access to appropriate housing . the Prime Minister have make it clear that ensure that veteran and their family can access support — include for housing — be a priority ; he mention that in his speech at party conference . he have also announce that veteran will be exempt from the local connection test for social housing in England , and commit an additional £ 3 . 5 million to continue the reduce veteran homelessness programme , include Op Fortitude . the transition from military to civilian life be a critical moment for many veteran , but too often , those with complex mental health issue fall through the crack , especially when it come to access housing . the armed force covenant be an excellent positive step forward , but its voluntary nature mean that not all veteran will benefit equally . will the Minister commit to review the transition process , and particularly mental health service provision , to ensure that all veteran receive more comprehensive and tailor support ? the career transition pathway that have just be set up be a great example of how we be help those leave the service to transition into civilian life . Op Courage , in particular , have have more than 35 , 000 referral ; it be for anybody with mental health issue cause by their service . I recommend go on to gov . uk and look at the service available , as they be pretty ample . the defence sector provide well pay job across my city and constituency , and across the country . with 10 , 000 adult in the constituency on the minimum wage , will the Minister help I to work with the Department for Education to ensure that kid in my city get opportunity to work in this brilliant sector ? I thank my hon . friend for a very important question . I would like to talk far about this . we have be work with the Department for Education — be the Minister happy to answer the question ? I do not quite see how it link to the subject , but if he be happy — I can take this discussion offline , and we can talk about this in due course . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . on this first day after the recess , I thank all armed force personnel who work over Christmas , include the nearly 10 , 000 personnel deploy overseas , and the crew of HMS Somerset , who be recall on Christmas day to shadow russian vessel around our shore . I also congratulate the many exceptional servicemen and woman and veteran recognise in the new year ' s honours list for their outstanding contribution , include the Minister for Veterans and People . my new year ' s message to everyone work across defence be that this Government will continue deliver for defence throughout 2025 , make the UK secure at home and strong abroad , step up support for Ukraine , boost the UK defence industry , strengthen tie with ally and improve service life for armed force personnel and their family . we have long - stand , cross - party support in Plymouth and Devon for ensure the future of the Royal Marines , include 42 Commando in my constituency . give the amphibious assault capability gap that we have as a result of scrapping — or , should I say , retire — devonport ship HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark , what commitment can the Secretary of State give that the green light will be give to build six multi - role support ship , and can he give a firm indication of when he hope they will be in service ? HMS Bulwark and HMS Albion be not genuine capability . the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry make that clear . neither ship be set to put to sea again before their out - of - service date . this decision allow we to focus resource on where they need to be : on the capability that we need to support our Marines and deal with our adversary . a recent BBC documentary detail the 60 - year campaign of nuclear test veteran , who be fight for the disclosure of medical record and damage relate to radiation exposure . there have be a marked increase in rate of cancer and genetic damage . I know the Minister be look at the issue carefully . will he please work closely with veteran to ensure that they get the justice that they deserve ? we owe a debt to our nuclear test veteran , who deliver their service in a courageous and honourable way . I have already commit to look into the record issue in detail , and to continuous engagement with all the charity and nuclear test veteran group . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at every turn , Ministers have refuse point blank to tell we how much their Chagos deal will cost british taxpayer . now we know why : the Mauritians want £ 800 million a year . whatever the figure be , will the Secretary of State tell we what percentage of the cost of lease back a base that we currently own will come from the Ministry of Defence budget ? I regret the conservative carping over the Diego Garcia deal . the negotiation be start by Conservative Ministers , who conduct 11 round of negotiation . the agreement safeguard the effective operation of the joint UK - US base for at least 99 year . it be support by US agency and be welcome by India , the African Union and the UN Security Council — almost everyone , it seem , except the Conservatives . [ Official Report , 7 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 6wc . ] ( correction ) Correct , because it be a terrible deal . what if I say : I call James Cartlidge . my apology . I be , like you be Mr Speaker , very passionate on this subject . we see this as a terrible deal . that be why we would have never sign it . the incoming US President oppose the deal , the Mauritians be seek to renegotiate it , and by any measure it be terrible value for money for the over - tax british public . do the Secretary of State really think that it be in our national interest to spend hundred of million of pound lease back a military base that we currently own , instead of spend every penny of that money on our armed force in the UK ? the agreement mean that the base will be undisputed and legally secure for the first time in 50 year . the US Defence Secretary describe it as an " historic agreement " and say : " it will safeguard the strategic security interest of our two nation and our partner in the Indo - Pacific region " . for 14 year , many military family have endure substandard housing with issue like damp and mould . they deserve well . do the Minister agree that quality service housing be essential in recognise the commitment of our military personnel , and that bring military home back into public ownership mark the beginning of repair our nation ' s contract with they ? I absolutely agree . this be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to change housing for our service family . it will save taxpayer £ 600 , 000 a day , and £ 230 million over the year . it give we an opportunity to build back over the medium to long term , and to deliver the deal that those family deserve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we face serious national defence vulnerability , with no land - base anti - ballistic - missile system to protect critical infrastructure , military basis or population centre . recent suspect sabotage of undersea cable in the Baltics highlight the hybrid threat for which we must also prepare . what step be the Ministry of Defence take to address the UK ' s deficiency in anti - ballistic - missile defence , and how be we prepare for potential hybrid attack on our critical infrastructure ? it be important that the strategic defence review be able to report its recommendation . it be certainly true that we inherit armed force with capability gap , fall morale and a recruitment and personnel crisis , which be why the SDR be so important in set out a clear direction for the future . this government back defence and will continue to do so , ensure that those capability gap be fill . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the historic contribution of woman in wartime be recognise ? I be think particularly of those who work in munition factory , include the Linlithgow munitionette . the essential role play by woman throughout both major war in deliver an industrial powerhouse to support our armed force be not lose on the Government . I be happy to take this matter offline and discuss it in due course . I be astonish to be tell by the Department for Business and Trade before Christmas that neither Tata Steel nor British Steel be a critical supplier of the Ministry of Defence . will the Secretary of State give a commitment that , unlike the previous Conservative Government , this Labour Government will buy British , include British Steel ? the hon . Gentleman have put his finger on a long - standing , deep - run weakness , namely a procurement policy under the last government that do not recognise the UK steel industry as a strategic industry and be content for the amount of UK steel source for some new ship to be in the single figure . [ interruption . ] under previous procurement Ministers , the proportion be 4 % . we will change that : the SDR will set out a plan to not just boost UK security , but strengthen the UK economy . BAE Systems in my constituency recently announce an extra £ 200 million in avionic investment to support the F - 35 programme , which will secure 200 extra job in the Warren Wood area . will the Minister commit to review our investment in our defence industry , to ensure that more job be secure by well - train young people throughout the country ? will he also commit to visit the site to witness that expansion and celebrate that success with our resident and community ? yes , she will make a commitment to visit the site . I agree with my hon . friend : our defence industrial strategy will enhance the incentive for long - term investment in the UK defence sector . it will encourage investment by private firm , alongside public money , align the imperative of national security , and ensure that we have the necessary skill . the Defence Secretary say in October that despite conflict return to Europe , the number of Army personnel would drop to below 70 , 000 next year , the low level since 1793 . the problem be not just recruitment , but retention . More people be leave than be join . in 2023 , 15 , 000 people leave the armed force , while only 11 , 000 join . will he commit to address the recruitment - retention balance in this year ' s strategic defence review ? it be certainly true that this Government inherit a recruitment and retention crisis from the Conservatives . Morale be fall . that be why we be renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . there will be more announcement about that in due course . I be encourage by what the Secretary of State say about strengthen tie with ally . can the Minister elaborate on the step that he and the Department be take to far strengthen collaboration with our european ally during 2025 ? as the Prime Minister have make clear , Britain be back on the world stage , and we be deepen our defence relationship with our european ally . that mean continue to implement the Trinity House agreement between the UK and Germany . there be also the new UK - Estonia road map , and there be more to come : we will refresh the Lancaster House agreement with our friend in France as well . give that President - elect Trump have be at well ambivalent towards maintain current level of US military aid to Ukraine , we must redouble european effort to support Ukraine . what further discussion do the Minister plan with european ally to collectively strengthen the provision of arm and resource to Ukraine , include through the potential use of seized russian Central Bank asset ? we have lay out clearly that this Government will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . that mean commit £ 3 billion a year , as we have do , to make sure that the Ukrainians have the equipment and ammunition they need to stay in the fight , as well as deepen our defence relationship with they . we be take that across the NATO alliance to all NATO member , and we will continue to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . may I commend the Government on their recent decision to bring a large amount of military housing back in house after the disastrous Tory decision to privatise it ? it be massively welcome in North West Cambridgeshire , where 431 home be be repurchase , but a lot of the housing be in a shocking state ; what step will the Government take to address that , to make sure that our military personnel can live in the decent home that they more than deserve ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . the defence housing strategy will be a medium to long - term strategy and will be publish , in line with the SDR , in the spring . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . give the Secretary of State for Defence ' s previous remark , can he set out for the House exactly what discussion there have be between Ministers and the incoming Trump Administration on the future of the Diego Garcia base ? as the right hon . Gentleman know very well , the system in the US be very different from our . the Administration who be in place at present be in place until inauguration day on 20 January . that will be the point at which we in the UK Government will start to pick up direct discussion with the incoming Administration . the US be our close security ally , and we will work with they to ensure that that continue . since Putin ' s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine , our European Union ally have contribute € 47 . 3 billion in funding to the ukrainian military . one of those integral ally be Poland , which have just assume the presidency of the EU Council , have start on 1 January . will the Minister set out in a little more detail how we be work in lockstep with crucial ally like Poland at this dangerous time for the continent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to suggest that it be vital to deepen our relation with our european friend . Poland be a key european ally for we , not only in defence export but in operational deployment . I have visit Poland twice recently , include to see the amazing work of the British Army in Operation Stifftail , which use our Sky Sabre system to help to defend polish airspace . there will be further such joint deployment of our armed force in due course . it sound like the Government be not very keen to talk about Diego Garcia with President Trump , but when people as diverse as President Trump and Lord Neil Kinnock agree that NATO country should be spend between 3 % and 4 % on defence , would it not be sensible to take they seriously ? on Diego Garcia , Members will have the chance to scrutinise the detail of any treaty once it come before the House . just as the previous Government do , we make sure throughout the negotiation that the US Administration be fully inform , fully brief and fully content with the step that we be take . the procurement of Ajax waste hundred of million of pound — money desperately need in my North East Derbyshire constituency . can the Minister update I on the progress make in learn the lesson of that failure and implement the finding of the Sheldon report ? yes . my hon . friend will know that the report be produce under the previous Government . its finding be set out under the previous Government , and I think they announce that all the necessary step to implement all 24 recommendation — 15 be accept and nine be accept in principle — have be complete . we need to continue to learn the lesson and make sure that such problem do not arise in other programme . the cost of the 10 - year equipment plan for the Defence Nuclear Organisation stand at £ 44 billion in 2019 . in 2022 , it go up by 27 % to £ 60 billion , and in 2024 it inflate by 62 % to £ 99 . 5 billion . can the Secretary of State reassure we that the MOD have not lose the run of itself on this bad - of - all defence procurement debacle ? what personal commitment can he give the House that he have the foggy idea what to do about it ? I can absolutely give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . I can also tell he that this be a national enterprise of the utmost importance that maintain the underpinning security for this nation , as it have do over decade , and that the management of our nuclear enterprise and the budget control be in place and strong than they have be for year . the naval base at Faslane and company such as BAE Systems support thousand of job in my constituency . do the Minister agree that we need to grow an integrated , innovative and resilient defence sector that will address problem such as skill shortage and the need for strategic long - term partnership ? yes . when the Secretary of State appear at the Defence Committee recently , he be sit alongside his permanent secretary when the permanent secretary announce that it be his aspiration to reduce the number of MOD civil servant by 10 % within this Parliament . do the Secretary of State recognise and welcome that aspiration ? yes , and I trust that the hon . Gentleman do too . the Veterans Minister and I recently visit Bournemouth War Memorial Homes , a specialist social housing provider for veteran in my constituency . will the Minister outline what the Government be do to support housing provider to buy or build home for hero across our country ? I thank my hon . friend for the visit to Bournemouth to see that exemplar of how to house veteran . the Prime Minister have just announce £ 3 . 7 million of funding towards veteran ' housing and there will be more to come in due course . there be report over the weekend of NATO worry that the UK be not contribute enough to the european defensive shield . that leave we vulnerable to a missile attack . I hear what the Minister have say about the strategic defence review , but what assurance can he provide that he will look at our defence spending commitment with sufficient speed to provide good enough defence for our country ? the hon . Lady be right to raise the capability gap that this Government inherit from the Government she serve in . the strategic defence review be look at those capability gap and at what be need to protect ourselves and our ally in the future . when that be set out later in the spring , she will be able to see how we plan to address those gap , ensure that we support british industry while also address the security challenge that we and our ally face . as a great supporter of the british - american alliance , I be disappointed to have to ask this question , but , give some of the recent tweet from people associate with the incoming US Administration , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the UK ' s exposure of our defence capability , give that there may be some change in the White House ? the US be the close ally of this country , and this country be the close security ally of the US . that have be for case the decade — it have withstand the up and down of the political cycle on both side of the Atlantic — and we as a Government will work closely with the incoming US Administration . defence spend with Northern Ireland small and medium - sized enterprise last year account for only £ 3 million . what will the Secretary of State and the Minister do to proactively increase that spend with Northern Ireland sme ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I hope that our defence industrial strategy , in enable sme to access contract and work for the MOD more easily , will increase that number substantially . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss the figure for the incidence of blood cancer and sarcoma in veteran and current service personnel who have crew particular military helicopter ? give the concern around exposure to exhaust fume and the importance that we place on safety , the MOD be this month initiate the testing of the exhaust emission of in - service helicopter to ensure that we be meet our duty of care for personnel . nevertheless , I would also like to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue far . follow the Christmas day attack on finnish sea cable , what assessment have the Defence Secretary make of the threat to british interconnector ? which individual Minister be ultimately responsible for their security ? the finnish investigation into what cause the damage to the Estlink 2 cable be continue , but many analyst conclude that it be likely that the Eagle S be the cause . that reinforce the case for operation Nordic Warden , which I confirm to the House in response to an early question . it be be run from the Northwood stand joint force headquarters and will cover a number of area of interest , include area where we have british undersea cable . I recently visit HMS Swiftsure at Rosyth in my constituency , a former Royal Navy submarine now be safely and securely dismantle and recycle by Babcock , as a pilot project of the submarine dismantle programme . will the Minister provide an update on the programme , which could secure hundred of job in Dunfermline and Dollar by deal with similar submarine at Rosyth over the come decade ? my hon . friend will be aware that despite the fact we have have nuclear submarine since 1980 , we have never dismantle one , so there be a lot of work to be do . what be happen with Swiftsure be very encouraging and will hopefully provide many job in dismantle nuclear submarine . I hope my hon . friend will be happy with that reply . Health and Adult Social Care Reform we now come to the first statement . I be sure there must be something leave to say . a happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , and to everyone across the House . with your permission , I will give an update on health and adult social care reform . I start by pay tribute to the NHS and social care staff who work throughout the Christmas break , include by staff our hospital , ambulance service , care home and call centre on Christmas day and throughout the new year . from visit hospital and residential care home in the south - west of England , Essex , London , South Yorkshire and the north - west over the past two week , I know the extent of the pressure they be deal with . they be go above and beyond to keep the NHS standing , to provide people with the social care they need and to give patient and care user the good care they possibly can against the most challenging backdrop . we have see more than three time as many patient hospitalise with flu this winter compare with last year , in a service with no slack leave to give . since come into office , the Government have be do everything we can to prepare the NHS for winter , include by end the resident doctor ' strike . this be the first winter in three year when staff be on the frontline , not the picket line . the Chancellor make an additional £ 1 . 8 billion available in - year to fill the black hole leave by the previous Government , and we introduce the new respiratory syncytial virus vaccine to protect more than 1 . 2 million people against the virus . but I be not go to pretend for a second that the experience of patient this winter be acceptable . the Government have be honest about the state of the NHS since the election , and we will continue to be . the NHS be break but not beat . it will take time to fix , but it can be do . that be why the Chancellor make an additional £ 1 . 8 billion available in - year to fill the black hole leave by the previous Government and to enable we to deliver on our first step to cut NHS waiting time . that be why we be undertake fundamental reform , and it be why we be act on social care . these be the honest fact . the social care system in this country be fail , leave hundred of thousand of disabled and elderly people without the care they need . the failure of social care be pile enormous pressure on the NHS . in November , more than 12 , 400 hospital patient a day be well enough to leave but have to stay overnight because they be not able to be discharge . we have an age society : by 2050 , there will be 4 million more people age 65 and over in England . if we do nothing , social care cost be expect to double over two decade . of course , there be plenty of blame to go around . in 2009 , when Andy Burnham establish cross - party talk on social care , the Conservatives pull out and leak detail of the talk to attack Labour . in 2017 , it be Labour who torpedo Theresa May ' s proposal . and in 2022 , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) as Chancellor delay Boris Johnson ' s cap on care cost , and then defunde they as Prime Minister . there have not be a shortage of good idea in the past 15 year , but a lack of good politic . it be time all of we across the House do thing differently . I have write to my opposite number and the leader of all UK - wide party represent in the House to invite they to help break out of the cycle of political failure . I hope all of we across the House will put aside our ideological and partisan difference , and work together on this , to finally find a way through to a long - term plan that can build the broad consensus we need . we do not need to agree on everything , but in April we will launch an independent commission on build a national care service . I be delighted that it will be head by one of our country ' s lead social reformer , and whitehall ' s great doer , Baroness Louise Casey . Baroness Casey have serve Labour , Conservative and liberal Democrat Governments . she be a trust , independent figure , who will take view from all party and , crucially , the public as she seek to build a cross - party and national consensus on the future of social care . she will get thing do . her first report will be publish next year , make a series of recommendation that can be implement straight away throughout this Parliament , and her final report will come later in this Parliament . in the meantime , we be stabilise the social care system today . we have legislate for the first ever fair pay agreement for social care , to tackle the workforce crisis — the 131 , 000 vacancy we see today . in the Budget , the Chancellor provide the big increase in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , worth £ 2 , 300 a year to family carer , and an extra £ 3 . 7 billion for local authority . on Friday , I visit the home of Keith and Elaine in Carlisle . I see at first hand how extended doorway and the installation of accessible kitchen and bathroom facility have change their life , thank to the disabled facility grant , allow they to live with renew dignity , independence and happiness . that be why I announce last week the immediate release of £ 86 million through the disabled facility grant , to provide an extra 7 , 800 home adaptation before April , change the life of thousand more disabled people for the well , just as Keith and Elaine have experience . we be not hang around on reform either . we be introduce new standard to help people who use care , their family and provider to choose the most effective new technology as it come on the market . we be join up care and medical record , so NHS and care staff have the full picture they need to provide the good possible care . and we be train care worker to perform more health intervention to help people stay well and at home . a lot do , a huge amount more to do and , if this House get this right , the good be yet to come . turn to the elective reform plan the Prime Minister have launch today , the Government inherit NHS waiting list at 7 . 6 million . the NHS standard , that patient should wait no long than 18 week for treatment , have not be meet for a decade . million of patient be force to put their life on hold while they wait . in his investigation , Lord Darzi list the cause of this crisis : the undoing of new Labour ' s reform , the disastrous top - down reorganisation , and slash gps and community health service , all of which have lead to a dramatic drop in hospital productivity . Lord Darzi have diagnose the condition ; now this Labour Government be prescribe the cure . in November , the Prime Minister set out the Government ' s plan for change — a plan to dig this country out of the hole it be leave in and an act of resistance against the status quo of manage decline . it commit to cut maximum waiting time from 18 month today to 18 week by the end of this Parliament . today , we be set out how we will hit that ambitious target , so that once again the NHS be there for we when we need it . this will demand fast improvement than even the last Labour Government achieve . that mean do thing differently . it have to be a plan for investment and reform . investment and reform be what Labour promise before the election . investment and reform be what we be deliver . our elective reform plan will cut waste and inefficiency , ramp up the number of appointment , scan and operation that the NHS perform , and give NHS patient great choice , control and convenience . any patient use the NHS can see the waste and inefficiency in the service when they use it . staff feel it hold they back every day . when the Government announce significant investment in the Budget , I say that it would come with reform , so that every pound be well spend , and here it be . resource will be divert from hospital to GPs , to get hundred of thousand more patient care for fast in the community . patient will have the choice of whether they want or need follow - up appointment , save a million pointless appointment a year . GPs will be able to directly refer patient for test and scan , cut out the middle man and speed up diagnosis for patient across a wide range of condition . for year , restaurant have be texte customer reminder of their booking , give they the chance to cancel or rearrange , to cut down on no - show . the NHS will learn from the hospitality sector , do the same for patient , and cut around a million miss appointment every year as a result . in opposition , we say that investment in new and more productive way of working would make a significant dent in waiting time . today , we be announce 17 new and expand surgical hub to run like Formula 1 pitstop and bust through the backlog . community diagnostic centre will open at evening and weekend so that patient do not have to take a time off work for their appointment , and can get diagnose fast . we be reward trust that cut waiting time fast with extra capital investment as an incentive , and we be publish a new agreement with the independent sector — the first of its kind for 25 year — to cut waiting time . over the past 14 year , a two - tier healthcare system emerge in this country . People who can afford it be increasingly go private to skip the queue , while those who can not are leave behind . work people be go into debt , and other be run fundraiser to pay to get an operation . those story belong in pre - war Britain . they should shame the Conservative party . I be determined to end two - tier healthcare in this country , so that whether you be the rich or poor person in Britain , you get timely , quality treatment , free at the point of use . this new agreement will see more NHS patient able to choose to be treat in a private hospital where there be capacity , pay for by the state . More capacity will be available for people in working - class area of the country , and for woman stick on gynaecology waiting list . where we can treat work people fast , we will , and we make no apology for do so . working - class patient in this country deserve the same choice , control and convenience as the wealthy expect — indeed , as we all expect from other app and service that we use every day , but not the NHS . that be why we be also modernise the NHS app to put patient in the drive seat for their own care . if customer can choose when their Deliveroo meal will arrive , and be keep inform until it be drop off , why should patient not be afford the same service by the NHS ? with this plan , they will be . patient will be able to manage their appointment , book test and scan , view result as soon as they be ready , and choose where they will be treat . we will cut down on letter that arrive in the post after an appointment , and give power back to the patient . in the past six month , we have end the resident doctor ' strike and invest billion more in our health service , with the big investment in hospice and end of life care for a generation . we be deliver investment and reform in general practice to fix the front door to the NHS and bring back the family doctor , and we have start to get NHS waiting list fall . this plan for investment and reform will press down hard on the accelerator and will change our NHS and the experience of million of patient . it will put the NHS on the road to recovery , and I commend this statement to the House . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his typical courtesy in early sight of his statement , as well for his call last week . indeed , it be early sight than I be use to because I be able to read most of it in the medium before come here , which be not unhelpful . I echo the Secretary of State ' s comment in thank and pay tribute to NHS and social care staff up and down the country , include those in my university hospital of Leicester NHS trust , GPs and , indeed , all those in Chorley hospital , Mr Speaker , for all they have do over the festive period . they work full - on day in , day out every day of the year , but they particularly feel the pressure over the festive period when they be not able to spend it with their family , so it be important that we across the Chamber share our recognition of that . the Secretary of State set out clearly the challenge face the system . we all know that clinical care , the NHS and social care must work well and as a whole for our health and care system to function , so it be right that his statement address both those issue . he also highlight the challenge we face as an age society . we be all live long , which be a good thing , but that bring challenge of care and more complex need . of course , that come on top of the ongoing challenge of the legacy of the pandemic , which be still with we in many way . in his comment , the Secretary of State refer to previous reform . he opt not to reflect another point in Lord Darzi ' s report : his positive remark about our 2022 reform , which the Secretary of State know I take through this House and which lay the foundation on which he be now able to build . give the serious and cross - party work we have do certainly on social care , I highlight that the challenge be real , and we must address both challenge swiftly . before turn to the long term , I turn to the immediate and ask the Secretary of State a few question about winter and the challenge the NHS be face . we hear from the Minister before Christmas about the work be do for extra co - ordination and new datum , but what extra capacity in bed specifically for the winter period have the Secretary of State put in place to help ease pressure ? what additional capacity have he put into A & E ? we always recognise that winter be challenging , and we always put in extra resource , support and capacity , so I would be grateful for an update . I would be grateful for an update from the Secretary of State on the pressure be feel in respect of the " quad - demic " of various challenge face by the sector . also , how many critical incident have trust declare since 1 December ? I would be grateful if he could update we on the pressure be feel and the response to they in the light of the winter weather . in my Melton and Syston constituency in Leicestershire and in many constituency across the country , we have see extensive flooding , which have have an impact on our ambulance service in particular . turn to reform and elective recovery , I want to support the Secretary of State where he be do the right thing , and it be important that he be keen to pursue a bold and innovative agenda . it be in all our interest that he be bold , but I call for he to be more ambitious . those be not word often speak about he , and I suspect certainly not in no . 10 , but I call for he to be bold and to go far . that be because , as with so much from the Prime Minister with multiple relaunche of previous announcement , what we see here be yet another relaunch of a previous announcement . the difference be the former Secretary of State Sir Sajid Javid ' s announcement from 2022 have be reheat and re - serve up today . we deliver 160 community diagnostic centre with 9 million additional appointment , and we deliver 18 surgical hub . how will the Secretary of State ' s plan go beyond that ? we work with the independent sector to allow it to be use to help tackle backlog . we improve technology and the kit available , with £ 6 billion of investment . the NHS app create during the pandemic be design and redesign by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) and his team to allow for regular update . again , it be right that the Secretary of State be update the app , but how be he radically change what be already in place ? I certainly already receive text update — as , I suspect , do other — on treatment and appointment , so my challenge to the Secretary of State be this : what be he do that be fundamentally different ? the key underpinning point in the former Secretary of State ' s plan be on workforce , because none of this can be deliver without the staff to deliver and interpret test . he set out his plan to grow the workforce , and we have record number of doctor and nurse , and increase medical school place . what be this Secretary of State ' s plan to grow the workforce and deliver on his ambition ? turn to social care , the Secretary of State will know — because I have say it publicly — that I will work constructively with he and the commission . he be right to highlight the challenge that government of all complexion have face , include a Royal Commission , two Green Papers and a comprehensive spending review that do not deliver under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown . similarly , Theresa May ' s reform do not deliver . we propose reform that be due to come in this year , but the Chancellor scrap they . I think it be important that we look to the future and at how we can work constructively on social care . I say to the Secretary of State that we will enter into discussion with he and the commission in that spirit , but I challenge he on the pace of his ambition . the sector be already under pressure , and that have be add to by the national insurance increase , which it do not yet know how it will pay . the real challenge for he be : why 2028 ? the sector be cry out for a fast pace — be bold ; be more ambitious — and we will work with he to deliver it . it take a year - plus to deliver a diagnosis — we know the challenge . he have have 14 year in opposition ; he should have a plan now . we will call out the Secretary of State when he get it wrong or simply re - announce what be already happen , but he be right in his approach to social care and find a way forward , and we will work constructively for the good of patient and all our constituent . many of they already feel let down by promise break by the Labour party over just the past six month , so I ask he not to break this promise , and to work with we , across the House , to deliver the change that our constituent deserve and expect we to work on together to deliver . it seem to be the conservative line across the board now to say , " you ' ve have 14 year in opposition , so why haven ' t you sort it all out in six month ? " I say gently that the Conservatives have 14 year in government , and it will take long than six month to clean up their mess . honestly , their contribution to discussion in this House might have more credibility and a strong landing zone if they at least acknowledge their part in the deep mess and malaise that they have create over the past 14 year . none the less , on social care , I very sincerely and warmly welcome the conservative party ' s support for the independent commission . it be important , as a matter of principle , to try to establish in broad term the level of consensus about what social care should look like and how it should be deliver to meet the need of old and disabled people in the 21st century , with change demography , change challenge , change pressure and a change pace of technology , and about the balance of provision between the individual , the family and the state , and the balance of financial contribution for social care between the individual , the family and the state . of course , those issue will inevitably be contest across the party political divide from one election to the next , but just as we have have broad consensus on the national health service since 1948 , just as we have have broad consensus on state education since Rab Butler ' s reform , and just as we have mostly have broad consensus for much of the past century on how public service should be deliver , so too should we try to establish the same consensus on social care . that be not to say that we should agree on everything , but we should agree on as much as possible , because whether it be Gordon Brown and Andy Burnham in 2010 or Theresa May in 2017 , we can see the extent to which party political wrangling , rancour and sometimes opportunism have sink well - mean attempt to grasp the nettle of reform . on the question of pace , I reassure people that in our first six month we have already legislate for fair pay agreement , deliver the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , and immediately inject £ 86 million into the disabled facility grant , with another £ 86 million to follow from April — £ 711 million in total over the next year — as well as the increase spending power for local government in the Budget and £ 880 million for social care specifically . with respect to the people who be say , " go fast " , I urge they to bear in mind that we have already do quite a lot in six month . we do not pretend that we have solve all the problem — we have not nearly solve all the problem — but that be not a bad start for a Government who be determined to show that we understand the pressure in social care today and be willing to deliver . the Dilnot proposal be very good technical response to a question that Andrew Dilnot be set by David Cameron , but we should reflect on why it be that every single Prime Minister since Lord Cameron , include Lord Cameron himself , do not implement those reform . there have always be something else in health and social care that have be more pressing and urgent . I be sure that Baroness Casey will consider the Dilnot proposal alongside all the other challenge and potential solution to the wide issue in social care , but we be determined to respond at pace . that be why the first phase of the Casey commission will report next year , set out an action plan throughout this Parliament . I hope that we can achieve broad consensus on those action too . turn to the winter situation , the right hon . Gentleman have ask what capacity there be . accord to the late figure , there be 1 , 300 more acute bed this year than last year . of course , those figure flex up and down depend on pressure , but the pressure be enormous . the number of bed occupy by flu patient be much high than this time last year — somewhere between three and four time high . the number of adult bed close due to noroviru have reduce in the late figure , but it be still above last year , when 485 bed be close — the late figure be 666 . on ambulance response , we have see many more call - out this year . there have be a 3 . 8 % increase in emergency admission compare with the same period last year , with the high November on record for A & e attendance . ambulance response time be nowhere near where we would want they to be because of the enormity of the pressure , which be why I have be out on the frontline , include over the Christmas period . we be not just look at what we can do to mitigate challenge this year ; we be already begin to plan for next year , because I want to see year - on - year continuous improvement in urgent and emergency care . I now turn to the challenge on the reform plan we have propose and set out today . start with the workforce , one of the reason we have emphasise the importance of not just investment but reform be the need to free up the staff capacity that we already have in the NHS to good effect . that mean deal with the number of non - attendance by send reminder to patient and give they ease and convenience in rebooke . it be why we be get rid of unnecessary , low - clinical - value out - patient appointment , with the consent of patient in every case . it be why we be ask general practitioner to do more to manage case in the community with more advice and guidance , and fund they to do so , work with colleague in secondary care to ease pressure on hospital . today ' s reform plan answer the challenge we have hear from people across the NHS : how do we tackle the elective backlog without do so at the expense of general practice , urgent and emergency care , community care or social care ? the truth be that this be a systemic challenge , and we will only be able to deal with the challenge in the elective backlog by also act on urgent and emergency care , general practice , community care , and delay discharge in social care . we be take a system - wide approach to meet this essential target . a number of thing be different from under the previous Government . for example , on the deal with those in the independent sector , give they the stability and certainty of work with this Government give they the confidence to open and invest in new capital estate and new kit , particularly in part of the country that be relatively underserved by the independent sector . we have insist they do that with their own staff and resource , and that they put their money where their mouth be in relation to train new staff to deal with some of those pressure . that be how we will ensure that we will not be take Peter from the NHS hospital to treat Paul up the road at the independent hospital . finally — I be happy to take more question on the detail of the plan — the shadow Secretary of State ask what be different from 2022 ? in fact , I think he ask I to commend my predecessor Sir Sajid Javid for his work in 2022 . in the bipartisan spirit of the new year , let I commend the work that he and Sir Sajid Javid do in try to undo Lord Lansley ' s disastrous top - down reorganisation , and that be a very good thing to do . there will be a very big difference between this Government and our conservative predecessor : real delivery , shorter waiting time and an NHS fit for the future . do the Secretary of State agree that his plan to transform adult social care service have already start with Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill ensure that social care worker will get fair national pay and condition , and increase access to training and progression ? do he far agree that we will never have a quality social care service in this country if we do not value the people deliver it properly , as this Labour Government intend to do ? my hon . friend be absolutely rightly . the Employment Rights Bill , introduce in our first 100 day , contain provision for a new fair pay agreement for care worker , and who well to be lead the charge on that than the care worker turn Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I add my thank to those of the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State to all those who work in our health and care service over Christmas and the new year . our health and social care system be in crisis , so the Liberal Democrats be broadly supportive of the measure that the Government have announce today . however , we do have some concern , not least that action on social care may arrive too late and that the focus on elective care may come at the expense of emergency care . the Liberal Democrats have long call for cross - party talk on social care , so we be glad that the Government have listen and we look forward to work constructively with the Secretary of State and other UK - wide party as the review develop . however , carer , care provider and council be on the brink of bankruptcy and they need solution right now , not in three year ' time . there have be many such review , and what be need now be action on the recommendation they have make . it be absolutely crucial that wait time for elective care be cut radically , so the action announce today to speed up scan and treatment be very positive . a waiting list of more than 6 million people be one of the bad legacy leave by the Conservatives , but those legacy include overcrowd A & Es and unacceptable ambulance delay , which can mean the difference between life and death , as people in North Shropshire know only too well . emergency care be under immense pressure at the moment — one visit to Shrewsbury hospital demonstrate that — and we need bold action if we be to ensure that this be the last ever winter crisis . as the MP for a rural area , I hear every week from constituent suffer because of the crisis , so they will be follow today ' s development closely . many of my constituent be elderly — far more than average — and they be the people most likely to need the NHS and the most likely to be digitally exclude . accord to Age UK , around 29 % of people age 75 and over do not use the internet , and around a third do not have a smartphone . they deserve as much choice and control as everybody else , so can the Secretary of State outline how those without access to the NHS app will be able to benefit from the same option and information as those who do have access ? will the Secretary of State consider fast - track the social care review so that the sector can get the urgent attention it need ? will he commit to rescue our emergency service by support Liberal Democrat call to make the NHS winter - proof with a new winter taskforce that build resilience in hospital ward , a & E department and patient discharge ? finally , will he define what a work - class area be , because the health and care crisis be acute in rural Britain and we can not afford to be leave behind ? I thank the Liberal Democrats for their support for the commission and for the way in which their party have put the issue of social care much higher up the political agenda , particularly during the general election campaign . that have be very helpful to I in the last six month and to the Government , and we look forward to work with the Liberal Democrats to build as broad a consensus as we can on the solution to the social care crisis . as I have mention , we have hit the ground run in a number of respect , include the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 . on investment in health and social care , I just point out that the £ 26 billion the Chancellor allocate to the Department of Health and Social Care alone at the Budget dwarf what the Liberal Democrats promise in their manifesto . I know that not all the funding decision the Chancellor and the Government have make in the last six month for the desperately need investment in our public service have be popular , but I respectfully say to people who disagree with the decision the Chancellor have make that they need to spell out which service they would cut or which other taxis they would increase , because those be the choice . we have make our choice ; we stand by they . what people can not do be welcome the investment but not say how they would fund it if they oppose what we have do . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the entire Government have be willing to make unpopular choice in the last six month because we believe they be the right choice to get Britain out of the hole it be leave in by our predecessor . People will not thank we for resort to the short - termist , stick - plaster , government - by - gimmick politic that plague this House during the last Parliament . I turn to some of the other issue that the hon . Lady mention . we will make further proposal on urgent and emergency care reform . I want to take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS , whether it be " hear and treat " over - the - phone triage — a more appropriate community response that be often fast than ambulance response time — or get ambulance and ambulance handover speed up at all our hospital with the " release to respond " approach . we have see that work successfully in some part of the country , but it need to be consistently roll out . the hon . Lady talk about patient choice for those who be digitally disconnected or do not want to organise their life around their smartphone . that be why I believe very strongly in choice — different course for different horse . those of we who do not book appointment over the phone free up the line so that those who prefer do their business and book appointment by phone can get through . the hon . Lady ask we to fast - track the social care work . the first phase of Louise Casey ' s commission will report next year , but we be of course willing to talk to party across the House about how we move forward . the hon . Lady urge we to set up an urgent and emergency care taskforce . let I reassure she that the Minister of State for Health my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) and I have every week — and often more frequently — convene health and care leader virtually and in the Department to keep a grip on what be go on , to provide as much central support as possible , and to respond to crisis as they emerge . if only that be just about set up a taskforce . we already have one ; what we need be sustained improvement from one year to the next and that be what we be determined to deliver . rise — may I suggest that we help each other by ask short question — with short , punchy answer , I be sure ? Ben Coleman will set a good example . Mr Speaker , I take that personally , in a positive way . this be a very encouraging statement . it be great to start the new year with some good news and to be so clear that we be keep our promise as a Government . it be also very good that we be take the necessary time to create this cross - party consensus on social care while keep the show so firmly on the road . carer will be support to carry out more health task , as they do already in my constituency with wound dressing and medicine management . the problem be they do not have any possibility of career progression . [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Mr Speaker , I forget your initial encouragement ; I will bring this to a close . do the Secretary of State agree that as carer be encourage to do more health task , they need proper opportunity for career progression even within the NHS , in collaboration with local authority ? Brevity be not my hon . friend ' s new year ' s resolution , but at your encouraging , Mr Speaker , it be mine . we will provide more training to care professional to deliver a wide range of task in the home , make well use of their skill and the career progression that my hon . friend describe . crucially , that career progression must be in status and in pay . that be what we will work with the staff to deliver . I call the Father of the House . I welcome the consensual part of the Secretary of State ' s statement , but I wonder whether we have be entirely honest with the public about the sheer unaffordability of the cap propose by Dilnot . I do not absolve my own Government from this : maybe we should start tell the truth to the public . do the Secretary of State think we need a new social compact on bring in social insurance so that people can plan for their entire life ? they would know that they will have to pay more in taxis during their life for their old age , but at least they would have certain right . the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that we need a debate as a country about the balance of financial contribution between the individual , the family and the state . I well understand why David Cameron be so concerned about catastrophic care cost and people have to sell their home to pay for their care and the problem he be try to solve . with every Government since , the issue have be see as less urgent than other , but that do not mean it do not matter or that we should not consider it as part of the Casey commission . we need to consider all these issue in the round and , as much as we can , build a consensus not just in this House , but throughout the country about the balance of financial contribution and what be fair , equitable and sustainable . just before Christmas , one of my constituent visit my surgery and give I pause to reflect on the massive , often lifelong impact on love one who have someone in the social care system , and the devastating impact on their ability to work and to live healthy , fulfil life . do the Secretary of State agree that the commission will lay the foundation for real change so that people in the social care system and their family can live the healthy , fulfil life they deserve ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend , who have do much already in the past six month to champion social care . whether people be in residential care home setting or we be do everything we can to ensure that they can stay in their own home , everyone deserve to live comfortably , well support , with independence and with dignity . that be why the step we be take , particularly through the disabled facility grant , will be immediately impactful on thousand of people across the country in just the next three month . we have so much more to do , and that be why I be genuinely excited by the work of the commission . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . give that the Health and Social Care Committee ' s first inquiry be " adult social care reform : the cost of inaction " , we welcome any action . as the name of the inquiry suggest , we be concerned about the length of time take , because every year without reform cost money , not only to the NHS , but to the wide economy and in people ' s life . we have Andrew Dilnot in front of we on Wednesday , and it be 14 year since his report , which have be put into legislation twice . I ask the Secretary of State to be specific : what will stop the next iteration of the Committee have Louise Casey in front of it in 15 year ' time ? what will be different this time , so that we get that cross - party consensus and it stick ? that be a great question . first , I will put on my shin pad and crash helmet if Andrew Dilnot be in front of the hon . Lady ' s Select Committee this week . I can well understand his frustration . he be a decent man who do an excellent piece of work . it must be frustrating to see one government after the next not implement something that be welcome . the issue for we as an incoming government be that the money be not there , and even if it have be , the system have not be set up to deliver for the October 2025 deadline . we choose to act on other immediate pressure in other area , because we see those need as more pressing . that do not mean for a moment that I think Andrew Dilnot ' s work be no long valuable — I think it might well be . however , we have to consider the issue in the round and come up with a clear and sustainable plan that we can stick to . on why the Casey commission will be different and will work , it be important to have as much political consensus around the House as possible . the national consensus and get the public on board will be important . anyone who have ever meet Louise Casey will know she be a difficult woman to say no to . I have no doubt that if Louise Casey say something need to be do , this government and future government — whoever be in government — will make sure that it happen . happy new year , Mr Speaker . yesterday and over the Christmas recess I be work shift in my local A & E at St George ' s in Tooting . up and down the country , doctor like I be see old and disabled patient who could not be discharge from hospital due to a lack of good , affordable social care in the community , so I welcome the step that have be outline . what step will the Secretary of State outline to ameliorate the imminent pressure soon ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that she do on the NHS frontline , particularly when Parliament be in recess but often alongside her everyday work as a Member of this House . it be truly above and beyond the call of duty . she see at first hand the pressure and failure that the NHS be experience . my hon . friend be right about delay discharge . in fact , when I be at Burnrigg Court , a residential care home in Carlisle , last week , I see wonderful ensuite room facility with people in intermediate NHS care — there be nhs - fund bed in those care home — and those people be in well setting at half the cost of the hospital bed they leave behind . deliver well care in the right place at the right time be often not only great for patient but well value for taxpayer . that be why I will be reform the well care fund to ensure that we make good use of NHS and social care budget together to get people out of hospital as quickly as possible , free up vital bed capacity for other . I congratulate the Secretary of State on take community diagnostic hub and expand their hour , which be something that the last Conservative Government establish . will he outline what impact that will have on his workforce plan and expand on that ? have the union accept the extra hour — they be not excessive by any stretch — that he have propose ? will he have a serious conversation with I , please , about Fareham community hospital , which have space for a community diagnostic centre that would be welcome by my constituent in Hamble Valley ? Persistence pay off : I would be happy to receive representation from the hon . member about his local hospital and the potential to provide more community diagnostic . on the workforce , when we be consult on this in opposition , we find a real willingness on the part of NHS staff to put in the extra hour , so long as they be fairly remunerate , which they will be . I be grateful for the investment that the Chancellor have provide to enable we to do that . nhs staff want to see progress to beat the backlog . they be as frustrated as anyone else — and demoralise , actually , at work — see people wait for so long , so I have no doubt about their willingness to assist . I be look forward to work with NHS staff across the country so that we can all feel that together we be deliver an improve nhs . rise — we be go to finish at about 10 to 5 , so the speedy we go , the more that will help . I thank NHS staff for work under severe duress over this winter . one way of ensure well patient flow be to have well rehabilitation , so will my right hon . friend say what he be do to improve rehabilitation access not only in acute sector but out in the community ? far to the previous question , we will be refreshing and update the NHS workforce plan alongside the long - term plan that we will publish in May , and my hon . friend be right that rehab be key not just to good recovery but to prevention of future demand on the NHS . I see a great example of that rehabilitation deliver in social care setting only last week . whether in the NHS or in social care , we definitely need to do more on rehabilitation , because rehabilitation be often secondary prevention . I agree with the Secretary of State that community - base service be crucial . my local NHS trust contact I in the week before Christmas about Hereford community diagnostic centre , which be currently in the process of be build . it be tell to be ambitious with this project , but in December it be tell that only a sixth of the funding that it need be available . do today ' s announcement mean that the Government will fully fund Hereford community diagnostic centre ? we will certainly write to the hon . member with further information about Hereford CDC . on capital investment , I say to she and to other right hon . and hon . member that we be very pleased with what the Chancellor be able to deliver in the Budget . we recognise that the stop - start we see on a number of capital programme under our predecessor be frustrating and we be determined not to repeat that . that be why we be set out clear and consistent proposal for capital investment in the NHS . last summer we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the elective orthopaedic centre in south - west London . the drive force behind that be Professor Richard Field , who come to my surgery every week after the 1997 election . with the help of the Prime Minister Tony Blair and the late Health Secretary Frank Dobson , he make it real . it have the low blood use rate for hip and knee replacement , the short stay and low level of infection . will my right hon . friend congratulate Professor Richard Field and agree that his elective hub be the way to cut waiting list ? I warmly congratulate Professor Richard Field on his clinical leadership , which have make a difference to countless life , not only in my hon . friend ' s part of London but because of the national example that he set , which many other follow . that confirm my strong conviction that the good innovation will come from great clinician . it be our determination to make sure that senior leadership in the NHS and in government back great clinical leadership and innovation , and take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . the Secretary of State say that 12 , 000 patient have to stay in hospital bed because of a lack of social care , yet we have it kick down the road once again . what will Louise Casey tell we that we do not already know about the tough political trade - off that have lead successive government to fail to create a truly coherent health and social care system , and what will he do to make sure that we meet need today , as he exemplify in November ? once again , the arsonist be complain that the fire brigade be not do a quick enough job . we be a bit sick of it on the Government Benches , but we be at least roll up our sleeve , get on with the job and make improvement , and we will continue to do that . I hear the same complaint about darzi : " what can darzi tell we that we do not already know ? " quite a lot , actually . the Conservatives should hang their head in shame for it . I thank the Secretary of State for his clear commitment to action . there be 131 , 000 vacancy in the social care sector , and low wage be the prime culprit . last year , Unison find that three quarter of care staff who do home visit continue not to be pay for journey time between appointment . will my right hon . friend commit to ensure both a £ 15 - an - hour minimum wage in the social care sector , and pay travel time as a contractual requirement ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I be a proud member of Unison , and I be proud of its work to stand up for its workforce in the social care sector . she and Unison be absolutely right to argue that fair pay be essential to recruitment and retention . that be why I be delighted that the Deputy Prime Minister include fair pay agreement in the Employment Rights Bill in the first 100 day . I be look forward to work with Unison , GMB and other to negotiate the first ever fair pay agreement for care professional in this country . I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State could unpack a phrase in his statement . he say : " where we can treat work people fast , we will " . that phrase be ripe for misinterpretation . please could he explain what that mean ? do it mean stay - at - home mum wait for an appointment , and family carer , 26 % of whom be on waiting list ? it do . I be talk about the fact that work class people be often leave behind in a two - tier system where those who can afford it pay to go private , and those who can not are leave behind . it be the determination of this government to bring back to life the essential Bevanite principle of an nhs that be there for everyone when they need it : healthcare available to all on the basis of need , not on ability to pay . I welcome the commission , which hopefully will lead to some certainty on the future of social care . however , a 2023 National Audit Office report find that 17 % of local authority director of social service be concern about their ability to meet statutory obligation last year , and a further 18 % be concerned about their ability this year . I have concern about what will be do to fix the immediate crisis in social care . will my right hon . friend outline what he will do to guarantee the sustainability of our care system now , while we await the further structural reform that we dearly need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . that be why in the Budget the Chancellor deliver a big uplift in the spending power of local authority , with £ 880 million ringfence specifically for social care . we be also deliver through measure such as the disabled facility grant to deal immediately with the pressure — [ interruption . ] it be no good the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) complain . he vote against the investment , so he can not very well complain about it . the previous Labour Government do a hatchet job on community hospital , include in Wiltshire , with a consequent uptick in the amount of delay discharge in the acute sector , notably at Bath , Salisbury and the great Western in Swindon . will the Casey commission look at that and find way of unpick the damage that be do ? the previous Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . there be very worrying report of cash - strap university reduce the number of clinical academic ; indeed , some be be make redundant at a time when there be increase demand for doctor . do the Secretary of State agree that this be an extremely concern development ? clinical academic have an important role to play in the national health service and in innovation in medicine . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education be focus on university finance , and I think university should ensure that they prioritise efficiently and effectively , make good use of the resource available to they . I would gently say that university have not struggle as much as other part of the public sector over the past 14 year . during 14 year of austerity , the NHS have be starve of the resource it badly need . four month ago , the Secretary of State for Wales make a big announcement about cross - border NHS partnership to tackle waiting list ; however , the First Minister of Wales later pour cold water over the idea , and today ' s plan for England do not mention Wales . be this so - call partnership ever real , or be it just another empty promise ? by definition , an elective recovery plan for England do not include Wales . however , I can assure the hon . Lady that we have a great work relationship with Jeremy Miles , the Health Minister in the Welsh Government , and with the First Minister herself . not only be we provide support to the Welsh Government on elective reform to help they to cut waiting list and waiting time , but we be receive advice from the Welsh Government on area where health and social care service be do well than in England . together , we will create a rise tide that lift all ship across the UK . bassetlaw have an increasingly old population , with 22 % now over the age of 65 . as the need of my constituent change , I welcome the additional £ 198 , 000 in funding for local disabled facility grant . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital to shift care out of our hospital and into our community ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for her question and for champion that issue since she arrive in the House six month ago . the disabled facility grant be not just about new handrail , new ramp , new accessible kitchen and bathroom and home adaptation ; it be about freedom , independence , dignity and happiness . it be really good investment in prevent demand on other health and care service by give people back their own independence and happiness . my constituent will welcome the opportunity to get more service deliver through their GP surgery , of which there be many excellent example in West Worcestershire , and through community hospital . however , I hear from those very same GP surgery their concern over the national insurance rise , and how that be lead they to think about reduce service . when will the Secretary of State be able to square that circle ? before Christmas — I appreciate that it be just before , but I want to get out the certainty to general practitioner before we all go off for Christmas — we announce the big uplift in funding for general practice in a considerable number of year , and we will now negotiate the contract in the usual way . that should give general practitioner the stability and certainty to know that this Government be determined to fix the front door to the NHS . the other thing I would say to the opposition be that they can not continue to welcome the investment while oppose the mean of raise it , unless they spell out which service they would cut or which other taxis they would increase . they do not have an answer ; they do not have a leg to stand on . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and his emphasis on investment and reform . will he say a little more about the important role of training for staff and investment in new technology such as AI to speed up diagnostic ? of the many great possibility and opportunity face this country be our strength in life science and medical technology . if we can combine the strength of our scientific and technological base with the ingenuity and care of our NHS staff and our ability to deliver at scale with the model that be design in 1948 , which be well serve to take we well into the 21st century , the sky be the limit for what we can achieve . we will have to support staff through that revolution . I appreciate that for many staff work in the NHS today they would be grateful if the machine simply turn on when they turn up for work . I be concerned about the lengthy timescale set out in the social care review , with the second phase not due to report until 2028 . the care system be break and it particularly affect rural area such as Glastonbury and Somerton . for example , a resident in Castle Cary , a 105 - year - old D - day veteran , be face move care home due to high care cost . this will have a negative impact on his health , wellbeing and quality of life . what action will the Secretary of State take in the near term to reform the social care sector and provide old people with the dignity they deserve ? I be very grateful for that question for two reason . first , it give I the chance once again to say that the first part of the Casey commission will be report next year , so we can set out a whole range of further action that will be need throughout this Parliament . we have take a great number of action already in the first six month and I dare say there will be more to follow in the next 12 month . I must say it be very encouraging that one thing we be hear from across the House on the Casey commission overall be to go fast . I think that show genuine cross - party appetite on this issue and that be a really good place to start . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to tackle the backlog of appointment — all our constituent would benefit from that — and his honest recognition that there be a risk , because there be not two separate workforce . unless we have sensible safeguard , we could end up pay the same NHS doctor more to do operation in the private sector . the Secretary of State for Education set a cap on the profit that can be make in the child ' s care sector . be the Secretary of State consider a similar cap to protect the NHS and ensure value for money in his work with the independent sector in the NHS ? I be grateful for that question . I be not sure that the level of exploitation in either independent healthcare or adult social care mirror what we have see , disgracefully , in child ' s social care , but we keep a sharp eye on that . I remind my hon . friend of the commitment we make in opposition around tackle the excess and the bad kind of behaviour of some private equity - own care home that be leech money out of the system . we will not tolerate that . we will act to regulate far . I hope that provide member across the House with the assurance that we be take both a principled and a pragmatic approach to the constructive and positive relationship we want to build with the independent sector , as we rebuild our national health service and build a national care service we can be proud of . I would love to see a consensus evolve on social care . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s appointment of Louise Casey and the talk about the balance between the individual family and the state . however , in every fiscal event that I be part of in the Treasury , more money be put into the NHS , so I respectfully ask the Secretary of State this : what do he say about wide variance in performance across the NHS ? secondly , what do he say about consumption pattern ? I understand his emphasis on the Deliveroo concept , but we have to come to term with the fact that most GPs would say that they have excessive demand from people who do not really need to see their gp . that be a delicate and difficult subject to grasp , but one that we really must grasp , collectively , in this place . I be grateful for that thoughtful question . let I say two thing to the right hon . Gentleman . the first relate to the wide fiscal pressure on the Chancellor . I find it difficult enough to manage the different choice and trade - off to be make between different part of health and social care and the compete challenge that I hear from member in all part of the House , so I be always thankful that I be not the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who have to balance demand from the NHS alongside the demand of education , a rise welfare bill , rise child poverty and the threat to our nation . these be enormous challenge , which be why I be determined to ensure that every penny that go into the health service be well spend . my second responsibility , in addition to ensure that patient be treat at the right time , in the right place and in the right way , be ensure that we have a sustainable healthcare system in which there be reduce demand . that mean do more on the prevention side , so that we can keep people out of hospital and not need to knock on the door of their gp surgery , so that they do not achieve the frequent flier status in the nhs that so many people do achieve — the one frequent flier status to which they do not aspire . we can deal with this only through both health service reform and public health reform , and I want very much to build cross - party consensus on the latter . order . that be a very lengthy answer . just before Christmas , I meet care worker in my constituency , who tell I about the day - to - day work that they do support the most vulnerable people in our community . do the Secretary of State agree that just as access to GPs help to relieve pressure on hospital and A & E department , an adequate number of adult social care worker will help to relieve the pressure on our GP service , which also have to deal with huge demand ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend , who have do much to bang the drum on this issue during the six month in which she have be a Member of this House . that be why we be take a systematic approach to health and social care reform . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , and for write to the leader of my party . I be sure that the Scottish Government will co - operate and engage fully with Baroness Casey as she do her work . the Secretary of State speak of failure . one such failure — the elephant in the room , in fact — be the labour shortage that the NHS and social care be experience as a result of Brexit . I ask he not to pass the buck , but to tell I what step he will take , after consultation with Cabinet colleague , to address those shortage by make it easy for migrant worker to come to this country and fill the vacancy . we have a referendum and two subsequent general election on the issue of Brexit , and I can tell the hon . Gentleman that none of those three democratic event go the way that I want . as we say to people at the time , the country choose a path that would have consequence and implication . however , we have a constructive work relationship with our friend and ally in the European Union , and while we can not change the past , we can build a new partnership and a bright future for our country . as my right hon . friend will know , a large number of elderly people be admit to hospital , through a & E , with respiratory condition . what plan do he have to strengthen the community respiratory team , who do a great deal of good work but could do more work , if they have the resource , to prevent admission , and certainly readmission ? my hon . friend be right , and that be why the vaccination campaign have be so important this winter . he be also right about the importance of community - base team . one of the Darzi conclusion be that since 2019 , we have significantly increase staffing in our hospital , but because we have the wrong people in the wrong place , we end up with fall productivity in hospital . we need a shift out of hospital into the community , which be what our 10 - year plan will deliver . Most residential social care in England be deliver by the private sector . be the Secretary of State able to give local authority the resource necessary to allow they to reopen residential care facility , or to open the new facility that be so desperately need ? will he assure I that in the review that Baroness Casey be undertake , the primary objective will be the delivery of a public sector national care service , not a privatised service ? thank to the decision take by the Chancellor in the Budget , we be boost the spending power of local authority significantly , and £ 880 million have be ringfence specifically for social care . I appreciate that a single budget can not undo 14 year of conservative failure , but this be an important start , and of course we want year - on - year improvement in the delivery of social care . Baroness Casey will consider all these issue , and also how we can improve ease of access and care quality across the public and private sector . I strongly welcome the Government ' s action to help my constituent in Leyton and Wanstead get the care that they need fast . our local hospital , Whipps Cross , continue to struggle , despite the hard work of its staff and leader , NHS worker and carer , who continue to provide service to our community over Christmas . in November , 36 % of patient at Whipps wait more than four hour for emergency care . in recent week , 16 % have wait long than 12 hour . do my right hon . friend agree that this welcome package of long - term reform will address both elective care and emergency care for our constituent by move the effort from hospital to the community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . if we improve the service at Whipps Cross hospital for his constituent , it will have the add benefit of improve the service at Whipps Cross Hospital for my constituent , too . what be miss from today ' s announcement be any sort of update on the new hospital programme review , which be vital in my constituency of South West Devon , because Derriford hospital need its urgent and emergency care centre to bring down ambulance wait time before it can even start to tackle its general waiting list issue . when will Derriford hospital hear whether it have be successful in the new hospital programme review ? I be grateful to staff at Derriford hospital for show I at first hand the emergency department pressure when I visit just before Christmas . I have also visit Derriford at the height of summer , when it experience high pressure . there be year - round difficulty at Derriford , and I thank the staff and leadership of the hospital for what they be do in difficult circumstance . we will come forward shortly with the timetable for the new hospital programme . I expect that it will be publish soon than the Conservatives apologise for their appalling record . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , but can he expand a bit more on the new agreement with the private sector ? for example , he mention that the surgical hub will be deliver solely by the private sector , but what arrangement will there be for emergency care , when the occasion arise ? some of the new capacity announce in today ' s elective reform plan will come through the independent sector , and some of that new capacity will be in the NHS . it be our ambition to rebuild the NHS so that it be available for everyone where and when they need it , and we will work with the independent sector . we be publish full detail of our independent sector agreement , so that people can see the deal that we have reach , and the sensible and effective partnership , include safeguard and protection , that we have come to . I look forward to work with the sector to make sure that everyone , whatever their income and background , can get fast access to care . when the Casey review report , if its recommendation be implement , it will have a significant impact on local government . as the Secretary of State will be aware , large part of the country be go through local government reorganisation , and the outcome of the Casey review will determine the right reorganisation for those area . in the good interest of join - up government , to use an old Blairite phrase , be there any way to bring forward the review , so that the good choice for local government reorganisation can be make ? I can definitely reassure the right hon . Gentleman that the Deputy Prime Minister and I be work very closely on this issue , which be close to her heart ; she have a huge amount of experience in this area . we will follow her progress as she embark on her local government reform . Baroness Casey will take those reform into account when she consider what the long - term future for social care will look like . once again , I note the exhortation to go fast . when I raise concern about GP appointment , GPs tell I that they have difficulty recruit to post in their practice . too few newly qualified doctor choose general practice as their profession . what can we do to get those doctor in place , so that we can make diagnostic in the community work ? that be an excellent question . have put in place fund to ensure that there be 1 , 000 more gps on the frontline before April , and have announce just before Christmas a significant uplift for general practice , I hope that in the first six month of this Government , we have send the strong message to people who aspire to long career in medicine that general practice have a huge role to play in the NHS in the 21st century . it be an exciting place to be , but I recognise that we have to fix the front door to the NHS to make it more attractive . the situation be even bad than my hon . friend have describe , because when the Conservatives leave government , there be qualified GPs unable to find job , at a time when patient be unable to find GPs . we get to work on that issue within week of take office , and we will do more over the next 12 month . it be good to hear the late announcement on overhaul the increasingly costly care for old and disabled people , and I very much welcome what the Secretary of State have say . I understand that this will happen through a three - year review , and that we will be clear on the plan to introduce this in 2028 . health be devolve to Northern Ireland , but thousand of care package in Northern Ireland be not fulfil . what can he do to assist Northern Ireland in achieve its goal ? goal that be set here for England and the United Kingdom need to be in place in Northern Ireland as well . the ministerial team and I have enjoy work with counterpart in the devolved government over the last six month , and we will continue to do that . thank to the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget , we see significant investment in health and care service here in England , and the Barnett consequential will create a rise tide that will lift all ship across England , Wales and Scotland . I might even say that all road lead to Westminster . I say this to Scottish National party colleague : down the road to Westminster lie the resource for the SNP Government , so they do not have an excuse not to act . rise — I be sorry that we could not get everybody in . I try to go as fast as I could . the name of those who do not get in have be note . Flooding happy new year to everybody in the House . I would like to update the House on the flooding situation in England , and I start by extend my heartfelt sympathy to all the people and business affect . have your home or place of work flood at any time be a horrendous experience , but it be particularly dreadful at a time of hope and celebration for individual and community , and I hope that those affect will be able to rebuild in the day ahead . the late set of flood event come in what have already be a challenging autumn and winter storm season . a combination of heavy rain , snow and high wind have affect England since 30 December , with the bad rain arrive on 1 January . many new year ' s eve celebration be cancel , and people in the north - west and central England wake up in the new year to find river at record level , and road , car park , business and , unfortunately , dozen of home flood . last night see further heavy rain and flooding , affect transport infrastructure and other service . the Environment Agency ' s area of most concern today be focus in the midland , Warwickshire , Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire . in Leicestershire , the fire and rescue service have declare a major incident . there remain extensive floodwater in river and other body of water , and a lot of the ground be saturate . the news and social medium have show the flooding of field and our transport infrastructure , and the impact that water have on our community . as hon . and right hon . member will appreciate , this be an ongoing and dynamic situation , but I want to come here and provide the late and most detailed update possible on what be happen and how we be respond . on new year ' s eve , the Met Office issue rainfall warning across most of England , include an amber rain warn for large area of the north - west , and 164 flood warning and 154 flood alert be issue by the Environment Agency between new year ' s eve and new year ' s day . during that period , rain fall across large part of England ; the bad impact area be in the north - west , include Cheshire , Greater Manchester , Lancashire and part of Yorkshire . the high - ever level on the River Mersey be record . Environment Agency team operate flood basin at Catterall , Garstang and Croston in Lancashire , and at Lilford , Sale and Didsbury in Greater Manchester . Cheshire be a specific area of concern . a major incident be declare , with over 100 family in the Warrington area need evacuation . a large section of the Bridgewater canal ' s embankment collapse , with water drain on to farmland and inundate a waste water treatment work own by United Utilities . the owner of the canal , Peel Holdings , take emergency action to stop the flow of water and , although the treatment work be inaccessible for a time , United Utilities have assure we that the plant be back up and run . a number of evacuation be need , even where property be not flood , include for 400 resident of the Britannia hotel in Didsbury . although some of the heavy rain have pass by 2 January , subsequent cold weather impact much of the same area , hamper recovery effort and add further misery for those whose home have flood . Environment Agency staff continue their work across the country and bring in mutual aid from unaffected area to help effort in the worst - hit area . they be also operate defence , support emergency response partner in manage live incident , and continue to issue flood warning to warn and advise community at risk . late yesterday evening there be further heavy rainfall across part of England , lead to a combination of river and surface water flooding . the Environment Agency be continue to respond in affected area , include Leicestershire , Derbyshire , Birmingham , Nuneaton , Loughborough and the Rivers Trent , Avon and Idle in the midland . the Environment Agency report that at least 350 property have flood and more than 21 , 000 property have be protect since new year ' s eve . over the next 24 to 36 hour , as water move to lower reach and slow - respond catchment , there be likely to be some localise flooding across multiple small area . climate change will inevitably lead to more severe weather of the kind we have see this weekend , but I reassure the House that flooding be a personal priority for I and a top - five priority for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . this Government inherit flood defence in the bad condition on record , follow year of under - investment . due to the impact of inflation , an age asset base and the previous Government make no additional funding available to repair storm damage , flood defence integrity be at its low level since 2009 - 10 , with approximately 60 , 000 property less well protect than if flood defence be at optimal condition . that be why we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to build and maintain flood defence . we have set up a new flood resilience taskforce to ensure well co - ordination between central government and frontline agency on the ground and throughout the country . the taskforce bring together organisation include the Association of Drainage Authorities , the National Farmers Union , local resilience forum and emergency responder . the taskforce be key to strengthen resilience in the face of flood , and it meet for the first time in September and will meet later this month . we have also provide £ 60 million to help farmer affect by the unprecedented flooding last winter , and an additional £ 50 million will be distribute to internal drainage board to manage water level to protect the environment and agriculture . to make the most of our flood funding , we will refresh our approach to fund flood defence , include through a review of the exist flood funding formula to ensure that the challenge face business and rural and coastal community be take into account in the delivery of flood protection . we will consult on this new approach in the new year , and I will inform all member when the consultation go live . we aim to bring in the new approach from April 2026 . the Environment Agency ' s community and field team be out today to assess and report on the impact of the last 24 hour . I be sure the whole House will join I in thank the emergency service , the local authority , the Environment Agency and the volunteer for their work in keep community , property and business safe . I also recognise the work do by many local mps — include Jo Platt , the MP for Leigh and Atherton — and their constituent . resident of Lilford , in Leigh , have be impact by flood twice in recent year , which be proof that resilience measure and investment need to be reassess constantly , and we as a Government be commit to support resident to do that . I know that many more mp want to be here but , because of the flooding , be out support their constituent . I thank they all , and I specifically mention James Naish in Rushcliffe , who be out support constituent right now . I hold a call on Friday to update mps , and I be grateful that the shadow Minister be able to join . I will continue to communicate with member as they raise issue . flooding be such an important issue , and I will work tirelessly to make our community more resilient . I commend this statement to the House . I remind member that it be protocol to reference Members of Parliament by their constituency , not by their name . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . I put on the record my gratitude to the Minister and her whole team for host a constructive and helpful cross - party meeting on Friday , together with official from DEFRA , the Environment Agency , the Met Office and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I pay tribute to the emergency service , local authority and the Environment Agency for their effort , over the challenge festive period and the ongoing start of the work year , to help people quickly , often in dangerous circumstance . I thank member of the public , volunteer group and our amazing farmer , who have once again step in to help their neighbour and local community in difficult time . the current flooding , snow and rain have have , and continue to have , hugely detrimental impact across the United Kingdom . today , road be closed , many school have be unable to reopen on what should have be the first day of term , rail service have be suspend , and airport have experience extreme delay . furthermore , as the Minister say , as a result of the extreme weather Leicestershire Fire and Rescue Service have declare a major incident across Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland . our thought be with all those whose home and business have be damage , and with all those who continue to be affect . many of those people will be distressed , angry and completely exhausted as they begin the new year with the process of restore and rebuild their home and business . I sound a bit like a broken record , but I reiterate that we must not underestimate the mental health impact of flooding on community , in respect of both the anxiety of be flood and the trauma when flooding hit . it be essential that practical support be provide as quickly as possible and remain in place after the water have subside and the blue light have depart . will the Minister update we on the action the Government be take to get school open as soon as possible ? what step be her Department take to ensure that insurance claim can be process as quickly as possible , so that those affect can return to their home as soon as they can ? in addition , what step be the Government take to review and potentially expand the vital Flood re scheme , so that insurance cover be expand in term of the age of build eligibility and to include business ? we discuss that issue at the cross - party meeting on Friday . while in government , the Conservatives ringfence £ 100 million to help community threaten by repeat flooding . will the Minister commit to that funding , and will those affect by flood again , in the late period of bad weather , be eligible to apply ? furthermore , will the Minister provide assurance that discretionary funding , such as the flood recovery framework or the Bellwin scheme , will be implement to alleviate the effect of flooding ? even if the threshold for the number of property affect be sometimes not meet , will the Minister and her colleague across Government commit to a compassionate , pragmatic and case - by - case approach to award that vital discretionary funding ? additionally , the previous Conservative Government establish the farming recovery fund to support farmer recover from uninsurable damage . will the Minister confirm whether the Government will renew that conservative initiative and provide new funding for this winter ' s storm ? finally , the Secretary of State have set up a flood resilience taskforce to improve flood preparedness that have meet only once . what work do the taskforce do ahead of the late bad weather ? should it not meet more regularly — certainly before the end of this month , as the Minister state — to learn any lesson and to respond to the ever - dynamic weather event we have see in recent week ? with many warning for flooding still in place , I know that many people will be experience huge anxiety and uncertainty , so I conclude by wish every community , and the service and people support they , a safe period move forward . I will try to answer as many of the hon . Gentleman ' s question as I can . I share his concern about the impact of flooding on people ' s mental health , which can not be exaggerate . someone lose their home , or see it damage , and have to move out over the winter have a devastating impact on they . I agree that farmer have do a great job in support community at risk of flooding . on Flood Re , we do not currently have plan to extend the scope ; however , we regularly review all policy . if any hon . Member want to contact I with specific suggestion on Flood Re , I be open to receive they . on the different pocket of funding that the previous Government announce , we will look at how the flood funding formula work as a whole . I mention the review of the formula , and I will let the hon . Gentleman know as soon as it go live so that he can join in the consultation . we will hopefully be able to announce the scheme that be be fund by next month . I know that people have be impatient to receive that information . we have work as quickly as we can . there be a formula for when Bellwin be activate — a local authority have to hit a certain level of expenditure . we have be really pleased that money from the farming recovery fund have already arrive in farmer ’ bank account . we have be get that money out the door to the people who need it the most . I call Tim Roca , member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I join both Front - Benchers in pay tribute to the community , volunteer and neighbour who help each other with the flood over recent day . community affect in my part of the world , particularly in Poynton and Bollington , all pull together . the a555 road run through a number of constituency , and poor engineering have be raise several time as a reason why it flood , affect local resident . will the Minister join I in speak with the Department for Transport and local authority to try to get to the bottom of why it repeatedly end up fail our resident ? I thank my hon . friend for his work to support his community at this difficult time . if I can be of assistance in talk to the Department for Transport , of course I will be . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . extreme weather event be become more frequent . New Environment Agency modelling show that one in four property in England , include an additional 39 , 000 home in the south - west , could be at risk of flooding by 2050 . like many across Glastonbury and Somerton , I watch this happen in real time . resident be on high alert , they be anxious and their mental health be suffer . Knole be a small hamlet between Langport and Somerton that previously never flood , but last winter nine home flood every month . with just 40 house in the hamlet , such incident have a huge impact on the local community . one affected resident tell I they have to watch the ingress of water through every wall in their house . another say they be unable to return home until mid - summer after last year ' s winter flooding . their experience and those of many resident across Somerset , and those set out in the national flood risk assessment , show that heavy rainfall and rise sea level already threaten 2 . 4 million property , so will the Minister commit to ensure that agency such as Natural England and the Environment Agency be properly fund to deal with flooding and future flooding ? the hon . Lady be right to point out the impact on people ' s mental health . I urge she to invite community that experience repeat flooding to look at the Build back Better scheme . they could be able to access an extra £ 10 , 000 to make their home more resilient to flooding . as I say , this be something that I care deeply about , as do the Department , which be why we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion in deliver , improve and maintain flood defence . Mr Wilson of Blackstope Lane in Retford contact I this morning , worry that water be once again come close to his property . he have be flood out many time , but today I thank the Minister for the work of the Environment Agency ; staff be on site with their pump from the early hour of this morning . they tell I that the clearance work on local culvert have make a difference and the water have be keep at bay . Mr Wilson ' s hope be that that will continue . I share my hon . friend ' s thank to the Environment Agency . it do an incredible job and be out there work new year ' s eve and new year ' s day — not celebrate like many of we , but out help and support . I be pleased to hear that positive story from her constituency . the people of Spelthorne have be hold their breath during this flood season . obviously , prevention be well than cure . can the Minister update we on the River Thames scheme and on when a decision about whether it will go ahead and when will be take ? I just mention in response to the shadow Minister that we should be able to announce which scheme have be successful by next month at the late . if the hon . Gentleman write to I with more information , I can give he a more detailed response on the scheme he mention , but I recognise how important many of the scheme be to so many people . I have be personally affect by flooding . in 1985 , our family home be flood when the River Caldew in Carlisle burst its bank . I can testify , as we have already hear , to the terror and powerlessness that people feel when their home be invade by water . although over the past few week we have escape flooding in Carlisle , tomorrow mark 20 year since Carlisle be flood and three resident , Margaret Threlkeld , Margaret Porter and Michael Scott , lose their life . at that point , the Labour Government commission and complete flood defence , but they prove insufficient to hold back the River Eden in 2015 , and the city be flood again . flood defence be commission but not complete by the last Government . do the Minister agree that it be unacceptable that the resident of Carlisle have be leave unprotected as a result of the last Government ' s inaction ? hear the news that anybody have lose their life in a flood event be truly devastating , and my sympathy be with the family and love one of those victim . my hon . friend be right to point out the importance of deliver on the promise to build flood defence and to highlight that poor maintenance of flood defence put an additional 60 , 000 home at risk of flooding . she have already prove herself to be a fantastic champion by get hold of I at every available opportunity to advocate for her constituency , and long may she continue to do so . a number of my constituent have be affect by flooding and in a variety of way . the Minister mention in her opening statement the breach of the Bridgewater canal , the damage that that have cause in Cheshire , and the immediate repair work that need to be do by Peel . what be be do to ensure that local authority clear block drain , because that be the root of most of the flooding ? the right hon . Lady be right that we need a combination of thing to deal with flooding . there be a concern around the canal , which I be aware of and be grateful for she mention it , but it be important to look at lot of different thing , include clear out culvert and drain where appropriate . many thing need to be do together to ensure that we build resilience to flooding . we can not put all our egg in one basket , but certainly take more of those small action will have a cumulative effect and help the situation . over the past 24 hour , heavy rainfall have lead to flooding in my constituency in Loughborough , Quorn and Hathern . a year ago , the Prime Minister visit Loughborough when that bout of flooding ruin home — we be both deeply move . the Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , have also visit those home . I be grateful that the Minister have strengthen flood defence since she be appoint . I be incredibly grateful that this time the flood have leave less damage , but heavy rainfall will come due to climate change . will the Minister set out how this Government will protect home in my community , and will she meet I to discuss how we can do everything we can to protect our home ? again , my hon . friend be right to point out how devastating flooding be . I would of course be happy to meet he and discuss the situation in his constituency , but just to reassure he , we will spend £ 2 . 4 billion in the next two year to strengthen , improve and maintain our flood defence . the £ 13 million investment in the Salisbury river park scheme be a fantastic intervention , but I urge the Minister to continue work with the Environment Agency to find mechanism with which parish can work collaboratively with it to develop small scheme . beyond the crisis management that she and the Environment Agency be work on at the moment , do she recognise that there be concern about inadequate scrutiny of the increase flood risk around new development ? if we be to reassure our constituent when more housing be put into the mix , it be important that there be proper consideration of the effect on flood risk . many people in Salisbury remain concerned about those outcome . the right hon . Gentleman be always welcome to urge I to do many thing . his proposal on how the Environment Agency work with local parish be an interesting one , and I would be happy to hear more of his thought on it . to reassure people about new home , we have commit to build more high - quality , well - design and sustainable home , and to ensure that they do not increase flood risk and be not at risk of flooding . if alternative site be not available and development need to be in location where there be a risk of flooding , they must be flood resilient and resistant for their lifetime , and must not increase overall flood risk . I put on record my thank to City of York council worker , as well as to the Environment Agency , for protect our city over the new year period . many business in my city flood periodically . will the Minister think again about a review of the insurance system for business , so that they have resilience and confidence move forward ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for join the call that we hold with all the different organisation on the Friday . I anticipate that I might be push on that question , and I have to admire her persistence on it . of course , I understand the importance of Flood Re and of business have insurance . the Flood re scheme be originally design in a very specific way , but I be always happy to take further representation from my hon . friend . I receive an email from Laura , a constituent in Abingdon . she live in an area that have be flood three time in the past year — in fact , there be a flood warning for the River Ock again today . she say that the flooding mean she can not sell her house — nor can any of her neighbour — as estate agent say that it must be five year dry before they will even consider it . as a result , my constituent stand to lose million between they and some have lose job because they can not move . what work be the Department do with estate agent and the building industry to ensure that newly build house be build well , and that house that need to be sell can be sell ? as I outline early , we will ensure that any new home be resistant to flooding and , importantly , do not contribute to more flooding in other area — that be incredibly important . I do not know the detail of the area and the constituent the hon . Lady mention — such as whether a flood scheme be ready to be develop there or they have think about property flood resilience measure — but if she give I more information , I will happily look at it . I thank the Minister for the call on Friday . I welcome her commitment to support my constituent and improve our flood defence . as well as maintain defence , it be very much about maintain exist infrastructure , and ensure in particular that our drain be unblocked , to reiterate the point make by the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . Staffordshire county council have an important role to play in that in Newcastle - under - Lyme , but it be very much missing in action . what engagement have the Minister have with local government , and will she meet I to discuss the specific flooding challenge face by constituent in Madeley , Silverdale , Cross Heath , Alsagers Bank , and those use the subway in town ? part of the reason that we want to set up the flood resilience taskforce be to end the siloe work between different Government organisation . it be jointly chair by I and a Minister from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government so that we can look at where issue overlap . how can I turn down an invitation to meet my hon . friend ? across my constituency , be it in Grendon or Bugbrooke , flood warning come hour after the flood event have occur . what action will the Minister take to ensure that flood warning be timely and accurate ? that be a really important question , and I be grateful that the hon . Lady have raise it . of course , in the majority of situation in which flood warning go out , people be give timely notice — again , I ask all member to please encourage their constituent to sign up for flood warning — but I be now look at situation in which those warning be not receive in time with the Met Office and the Environment Agency , to understand why that have happen and how we can improve it in the future . we need to ensure that people be get those warning as quickly as possible so that they can take the action need . I visit the village of Wolston in my constituency this morning . I meet the council emergency team and member of the flood action group . I see the community spirit in action , with refreshment be supply by volunteer at the baptist church . most importantly , I visit resident who have be suffer . one of the issue raise with I be the property flood resilience grant and its operation . resident mention that they need to find £ 800 for a survey , and that contractor ask for £ 300 before they give a quote . they talk about major delay , and I see the consequence of those delay , because some of the house that be flood would have benefit from the preventive measure . will the Minister take a look at that mechanism and write to I about it ? of course , where scheme be not work as effectively as they should — where there be room for improvement — this Government will make sure they do everything they can to improve thing and make they well . I be happy to receive that communication . like the shadow Minister , I feel like a bit of a stuck record on the topic of flooding . this be the fourth month run in which I have speak on it in the House , because it be the fourth month run in which my constituency have be flood . today , yet again , road be inundate , train be cancel and home be take in water . in her statement , the Minister mention the fact that climate change mean that these incident will become more frequent and severe , but there be no explicit mention of climate adaptation in the measure she set out . in our response to this issue , we surely have to take the challenge of climate adaptation seriously as a whole - of - Government challenge . the chair of the Climate Change Committee have say that the UK be " not ready " , so what be the Minister do with colleague across Government to ensure we take the challenge of climate adaptation as seriously as possible ? otherwise , we will be back here month after month . I can not speak for all of Government , but I can certainly speak for what we be do about property flood resilience — how we make our home more resilient to flooding . we know that flooding be go to become more frequent because of change to the climate , so climate adaptation be an area I be very keen on . that be why I meet with all the insurance company last year , bring they all together , because I want every single insurance company to offer build back well , make more home flood resilient . of course , it be important that we look not only at retrofit what we already have , but at what be happen with new build . I echo the Minister ' s heartfelt sympathy for those feel the impact of flooding and those who be in fear of future flooding . I also echo she thank to the service and community who have help those victim . in Drayton and Farlington in my constituency , groundwater flood up through the drain into house , drive , garden and business . despite be contact by resident and by myself , Southern Water have not act , because it be not sewage . I would like to see DEFRA work with water company and local government to ensure that type of flooding be also take seriously , to make sure that resident and business be listen to , and to improve resilience in our drainage system . I share my hon . friend ' s upset about the fact that this issue be not be take seriously enough by Southern Water , but have know she for a very long time , I have no doubt that if there be someone who will make that company listen , it be she . I be happy to support she with that . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I thank everyone who have be out help over the past few day . every time there be heavy rainfall or a storm , road all across Broxbourne flood , from Stanstead Abbotts to Waltham Cross . what action will the Minister ' s Department take to decrease flood event in build - up area ? we in Broxbourne have not always see the good side of the Environment Agency , so what can we do to increase its accountability as well ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I be sorry to hear that the experience of the Environment Agency have not be what he expect . I would be more than happy to put he in touch with the EA area director , so that they can have a conversation and work out how to improve the situation . urban flooding be one of the reason we want to look at what be call suds — sustainable urban drainage system — and how we can integrate more of those into our community to help deal with some of the problem with surface water flooding . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for and congratulate she on how she have engage with member of this House , and how she have support I and my constituent in deliver a pump at Hartrigg Oaks . may I invite she to support another scheme in the Fordlands Road area in Fulford , which would dramatically reduce the risk of flooding there ? my hon . friend be very charming , which always make it hard to say no . I would be happy to look into the scheme in more detail for he . every time we have a major storm or sustain rainfall , the Bakers Arms roundabout on the A35 become impassable , trap the people of the Purbecks and the town of Wareham on , ironically , the Isle of Purbeck . what be the Minister do to bring together the Department for Transport , the Environment Agency , Highways England and local authority to plan for main route to be prioritise for permanent flooding solution ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . that be a really important question because , particularly today and in the past couple of day , many of our highway have be impact . indeed , as have be mention , the railway have also be impact . I find it more difficult to get here , as I know have other hon . member . she be quite right that we should look at work together , and that may be one of the action we look at in the flood resilience taskforce . I also echo the word of many across the House about the work of the statutory service , particularly all those who work in West Lancashire . our community spirit have be exceptional ; I particularly note the work of my constituent Laura Caunce from the Ormskirk community group , who have co - ordinate volunteer on the ground , and have run a crowdfunder and raise over £ 5 , 000 already to support local people affect by flood . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and many of the announcement , particularly the £ 50 million for internal drainage board . my hon . friend will be aware that there be some part of the country , such as mine in West Lancashire , that can not get an IDB , because legislation prevent the creation of a new one . what timeline be we look at for bring forward legislation so that we can really move forward on flood prevention and water management in West Lancashire ? I thank my hon . friend and congratulate her constituent who have manage to raise £ 5 , 000 , which be incredible . I be at heart an optimist and always see the bright side . the silver lining in the cloud have definitely be see community come together and people work together despite the horrible situation they have be face . I be work on the issue of create more internal drainage board at the moment . I be sorry that I can not give an exact timeline , but I can tell she I be work on it right now . it be widely know that the more impermeable the land — pavement , road and housing development , for example — the more likely we be to see flooding . with this in mind , and also bear in mind the Minister ' s response early about ensure that new housing development be not at risk of flooding , what assessment have the Government make of the downstream impact of a development and what be happen with flooding far down the valley ? that be an important question . without go into this in too much detail , one of the important thing when look at sustainable urban drainage solution be how they be go to work in community , because we can not solve a problem in one area and say we be deal with flooding there if it create a problem somewhere else . part of the calculation that need to be make if we be to use suds in new development be exactly to make sure that it be not go to impact on or increase the likelihood of flooding somewhere else . otherwise , the system be not work effectively . it be a really important issue , and I be grateful that the hon . Member have raise it . I thank the Minister for her statement . as a major incident have be declare in Leicestershire , I want to thank our emergency responder , our local government and the Environment Agency , but I also want to thank and honour the amazing work of our flood volunteer . I speak to one this morning , who be exhausted have be up all night . I pay tribute to she . could the Minister confirm how local community such as mine in Measham , Packington and Long Whatton will be support in the long term to recover from repeat flood event ? at what point will we see a stop to these event in our community ? I thank my hon . friend . I be sure her constituent have do an incredible job — the flood group have do an amazing job — and I understand why she must be feel so exhausted . we have mention the impact that flood event have on people ' s mental health . we want to look at area at risk of repeat flooding in the flooding formula review to make sure that those area be get the support they need . the immediate post - flood situation be of course for MHCLG , but if I can help in any way she need only to contact I . many of we recognise that our drainage network be in disrepair in many place . much of that stem from the Environment Agency ' s main river designation ; an enormous amount of bureaucracy be require in order to get permission to unblock what be nominally call a main river but to almost all of we be a ditch . these ditch network be very broad ; in Northmoor and Bablock Hythe in my constituency , virtually every ditch be a main river , which mean that in one case we require about three year to get a permit from the EA . that make thing extremely difficult and nothing ever get do . we have have five permit in five year from the EA throughout the West Oxfordshire district . will the Minister please consider do two thing : make it easy to de - designate main river to ordinary watercourse ; and simplify the ea ' s permit procedure , which be incredibly byzantine , so that people can apply for permit and be able to unblock their ditch ? I be incredibly interested in what the hon . Gentleman have have to say , because the last thing we want be it take five year to deal with a problem when there be a simple solution for it . if unwanted bureaucracy be cause a problem , I would like to try and help . I ask the hon . member please to send I all the information . I be happy to have that conversation with the EA , and let we see what can be do . there be load of landowner in Suffolk who want to take step to mitigate flooding . the problem be they need a flood risk assessment permit , but frap be expensive and hard to come by , so what can the Department do to make they easy to access and cheap ? that would make a real difference . I thank the hon . Gentleman ; that be another interesting and thoughtful question . I be happy to look into this in more detail for he , because if there be rule and regulation that be not work , as a new Government we do not need to keep they . if they be not work , let we change thing and make thing well . the hon . Member should send I the information and I can have a proper look at it . return to the issue of wide infrastructure in surface water flooding , recent example in my constituency include a householder who have be affect by water run from an incomplete major housing development who have be tell nothing can be enforce until the development be finish , and another where a road safety scheme be funnel water into their property . what action will the Government take to ensure that infrastructure be be design with surface water flooding in mind and to ensure that developer have to provide appropriate drainage right the way through the build - out of major development ? I be really sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent face such an incredibly unfair situation for anybody to have to deal with . that be why the fact that sustainable drainage system and schedule 3 to the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 that we bring in be never enact be so important , and that be why we be look at that now , because there need to be adequate drainage system in new design . that should have be in place since 2010 , but the previous Government do not enact it . this government be serious about get on with it . I echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) : although I be incredibly grateful to a lot of frontline worker from the Environment Agency and elsewhere for the work they have do to keep house and business safe , we have not always see the good of the ea as an organisation . Councillor Tommy Threlfall , our cabinet member , and other community member and business owner be desperately try to get hold of someone at the Environment Agency while all the field around Main Drain be flood and not one of the pump at Lytham pumping station be active , as there be about to be a high tide into the low , flat land the Minister refer to , which be at the tail end of the risk of flooding as the water move downstream . what be the Minister go to do to help local community well engage with agency such as the EA in the midst of flooding , to get real - time information into the organisation and , most importantly , to get it act upon to keep business and residence safe ? if the hon . Gentleman have not have the experience he need with the Environment Agency , I be happy to take up that issue . an hon . friend mention a good idea on the call last Friday : issue an emergency flood pack to mps contain all the detail and information of who to contact and when . member would then have that information when they need it and be able to get hold of people exactly at the point they need to do so . that issue have come out , especially with it happen over new year ' s eve . People and the EA be out there work , but we have to make sure we have that communication . that be so incredibly important . I be think through different way I can improve communication , but I will make sure that the area manager get in contact with the hon . Gentleman . many of my constituent have be affect by flood overnight , but it have be particularly bad in Horley , where for the second time in recent month people ' s home have be flood by raw sewage . will the Minister meet I to discuss what can be do to hold Thames Water to account in operate its sewage work — particularly in the light of several new housing development in the area , which will make the problem even bad — and to stop it dump raw sewage in my resident ’ home ? that be a horrific experience , and I be so sorry that those people have have to deal with that . I will meet the hon . Gentleman . it be so important we have that £ 88 billion of investment to improve infrastructure and to upgrade the water system , so that we do not keep have horrific incident , such as the one he mention . as member from all part of the House have already mention , one of the major cause of flooding be the blockage of our drainage system and gulley . unfortunately , many council nationally have reduce the frequency of clean gulley due to budgetary pressure . area such as my landlocked constituency be see flooding like never before ; my local Victoria Park health centre be flood as we speak . will the Minister commit to provide more funding for council to assist our large agency , such as the Environment Agency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for highlight the impact that flooding have , not just on home but on medical facility . it be important , but we need to look in the round at what make the most difference in improve flood resilience within a community . one of the thing I have mention to many other member be the build back well scheme , under which there can be an extra £ 10 , 000 to make property more flood resilient . it might be good to have a conversation about that in term of other house in the local area , so that we can improve property flood resilience . flooding will not be solve by one thing ; we need to look at as many different thing as we can and accumulate they to make the big impact . I thank the Minister for her statement and for her clear energy and commitment to try to make life well across the United Kingdom . the rain of the last few week explain the significant flooding — some would say it be of biblical proportion — and it have lead to many road be closed and air travel be affect for many . disruption be extensive across the middle and north - east of England and in other part of the United Kingdom , so what be be do to minimise travel disruption for so many go back to work and other go back to school this week ? I be delighted that the hon . Gentleman have ask the last question on my first statement . in term of what can be do , we need to continue to work with other Departments through the flood resilience taskforce to look at how we can improve resilience and ensure that people get back to work . as he know , flooding and water be a devolved matter in Northern Ireland , but it be always good to get he in at the end . child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse before I call the Home Secretary to make the statement on child sexual exploitation and abuse , I have a statement to make on behalf of Mr Speaker . I remind Members of the House ' s sub judice resolution , which prohibit reference be make to any active criminal case . member should therefore not make any reference to any active case in which an individual have already be charge . child sexual abuse and exploitation be the most vile and horrific of crime , involve rape , violence , coercive control , intimidation , manipulation and deep long - term harm . the information from the crime survey should be chilling to all of we . it estimate that half a million child every year experience some form of child sexual abuse : violence and sexual violation in the home ; repeat rape or exploitation by groom or paedophile gang ; threat and intimidation involve intimate image online ; or abuse within institution that should have protect and care for young people — cruel and sadistic crime against those who be most vulnerable . all of we have a responsibility to protect our child . perpetrator must be punish and pursue , and victim and survivor must be protect and support . but these crime have not be take seriously for too long , and far too many child have be fail . that be why this Government be determined to act , strengthen the law , take forward recommendation from independent inquiry , and support strong police action and protection for victim . there be no excuse for anyone not to take these crime seriously . brave survivor speak out have shine a light on terrible crime and the failure of institution to act , be it in care home in Rochdale , asian grooming gang in Rotherham or Telford , the abuse cover up within faith institution , include the Church of England and the Catholic Church , or within family home . that report , alongside the come to light of other appalling crime , be why our party when in opposition call for a national independent inquiry into child sexual abuse and support that work when it be launch by the previous Government . over seven year , that inquiry , expertly lead by Professor Alexis Jay , engage with more than 7 , 000 victim and survivor , process 2 million page of evidence , and publish 61 report and publication . the finding should be truly disturbing for everyone — they describe the pain and suffering cause to victim and survivor , and the deviousness and cruelty and perpetrator . nor be there any excuse for anyone not to recognise and act on the deep harm and damage of organise gang exploitation , abuse sexual assault and rape . ten year ago , two report by Alexis Jay and Louise Casey in Rotherham find that 1 , 400 child have be sexually exploit , rape by multiple perpetrator , traffic across other town , abduct , beat and threaten with gun . child have even be douse in petrol . girl as young as 11 have be rape . those report a decade ago identify a failure to confront pakistani heritage gang and a " widespread perception " that they should " ' downplay ' the ethnic dimension " for fear of be see to be racist . when those report come out , those failing in Rotherham be condemn across the board by both Government and Opposition in this House . as I say at the time : " it be never an excuse to use race and ethnicity or community relation as an excuse not to investigate and punish sex offender . " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2014 ; Vol . 585 , c . 169 . ] the then Home Secretary make it clear that " cultural concern … the fear of be see as racist … must never stand in the way of child protection . " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2014 ; Vol . 585 , c . 168 . ] the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse also run a specific investigation strand into child sexual exploitation by organise network , which run for two year and produce a separate report in February 2022 . it conclude that police force and local council be still fail to tackle this serious crime and set out further recommendation for change . but despite those different inquiry draw up multiple recommendation , far too little have actually be do . none of the 20 recommendation from the independent inquiry into child abuse have be implement . as the Act on IICSA campaign group from the Survivors Trust say this week , victim of child sexual abuse " can not afford further delay in meaningful action … it be imperative to keep the focus on radical reform " . two different Conservative Home Secretaries say after the report be publish that it be a watershed and should be the beginning of a new chapter for change , but that have not happen . we now need new impetus and action . since come into office , the Safeguarding Minister have meet with Professor Alexis Jay and survivor , and have convene the first dedicated cross - Government group to drive forward change . to ensure that victim ' voice remain at the very heart of this process , we will set up a new victim and survivor panel to work on an ongoing basis with the inter - ministerial group , to guide they on the design , delivery and implementation of new proposal and plan not just on IICSA but on wide work around child sexual exploitation and abuse . we will set out more detail and timescale base on that work . before that , I can announce action on three key recommendation . first , I can confirm that we will make it mandatory to report abuse , and we will put measure in the crime and police Bill — to be put before Parliament this spring — to make it an offence , with professional and criminal sanction , to fail to report or to cover up child sexual abuse . the protection of institution must never be put before the protection of child . I first call for this measure in response to the report and failing in Rotherham 10 year ago . the Prime Minister first call for it 12 year ago , base on his experience as Director of Public Prosecutions . the case be clear then , but we have lose a decade and we need to get on with it now . secondly , we will legislate to make groom an aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offence , because the punishment must fit the terrible crime . thirdly , we will overhaul the information and evidence that be gather on child sexual abuse and exploitation and embe they in a clear new performance framework for police , so that these crime be take far more seriously . one of the first recommendation of the independent inquiry be a single core datum set on child abuse and protection , but that have never be do . we will introduce a single child identifier in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and a much strong police performance framework , include new standard on public protection , child abuse and exploitation . we be accelerate the work of the child sexual exploitation police taskforce , set up — rightly — under the previous Government . there be a 25 % increase in arrest between July and September last year . that sit alongside the tackle organise exploitation programme , which use advanced datum and analytic to uncover complex network . datum on ethnicity be now be publish , but we will work far with they to improve the accuracy and robustness of the datum and analysis . we will continue to support further investigation that be need , include police investigation and local independent inquiry and review , which can expose failing and wrongdoing in local area and institution , as we have see in Telford , Rotherham and Greater Manchester . we support the ongoing work commission by Mayor Andy Burnham into historic abuse in Oldham , which have lead to new police investigation , arrest and conviction . to build on those finding , the leader of Oldham council have confirm this week that work to set up a further local independent inquiry be already underway , include liaison with Oldham survivor . we welcome and support this work , which will put victim ' voice at its heart . the Telford inquiry be particularly effective because victim be involve in shape it at every stage . Tom Crowther , who lead that inquiry , have now agree to work with the Government and other local council where strong engagement with victim and survivor be need , or where more formal inquiry be require to tackle persistent problem . we should also be clear that wherever there have be failing or perpetrator of terrible crime have not be bring to justice , the most important inquiry and investigation should be police investigation to track those perpetrator down , to bring they before the court and to get victim the protection that they deserve . finally , we have to face the serious challenge that the fast grow area of grooming and child abuse be online . we will also take much strong action to crack down on rapidly evolve form of child sexual exploitation and abuse and groom online , include tackle the exponential rise in artificial intelligence - facilitate child sexual abuse material . we will set out a significant package of measure to strengthen the law in this area in the come week . for many year there have be broad cross - party consensus not only on the importance of this work , but that the interest of victim and survivor must come first . there will be different view about the detail of the policy that be need , but every one of we across this House have support action to protect our child . it be the responsibility of we all to keep they safe for the future . I hope that member across the House will work with Ministers and the victim and survivor panel that we be set up to change protection for the well and to make sure that it be perpetrator who pay the price . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . the whole country be shock by the rape gang scandal . over year or decade , thousand or maybe ten of thousand of vulnerable young girl be systematically rape by organise gang of man , predominantly of pakistani heritage . instead of those victim be protect and the perpetrator prosecute , those girl be systematically fail . many case be cover up because of absurd concern about so - call community relation . often , the police do not investigate . local council cover thing up . the Crown Prosecution Service frequently fail victim . those raise concern be frequently accuse of racism . never again can people be silence in that way . I pay tribute to people who have raise these case over the year , start with former Labour MP Ann Cryer , who first raise these problem nearly two decade ago and bravely persevere despite accusation of racism and bad , include from her own colleague . in that vein , let I say a word on the Prime Minister ' s comment this morning : it be not far - right to stand up for victim of mass rape . [ interruption . ] order . People want to hear the response to the statement . smear people who raise those issue be exactly how this get cover up in the first place . I repeat what I say yesterday : intimidation and threat towards elect member of Parliament and Ministers , include the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , be completely wrong . as the Home Secretary say , action be important . the last Government take extensive action , start with the original Jay report commission in 2014 by the then Home Secretary , now Baroness May . a year later , she commission the independent investigation into child sexual abuse , and Sajid Javid commission data collection in 2018 . on the response to the IICSA report publish in 2022 , it be not true that the last Government take no action . the last Government establish the grooming gang taskforce , whose work lead to 550 arrest of perpetrator in the first year and safeguard 4 , 500 victim . my first question to the Home Secretary be therefore this : will she confirm for the House — I be sure she can — that the grooming gang taskforce ' s work will continue and , I hope , be step up ? secondly , as part of the work of the grooming gang taskforce — and , again , implement one of the recommendation of the IICSA report — in April 2023 the last Government mandate data collection on ethnicity , as the Home Secretary refer to . it have be go for over a year and a half , so will she confirm that the datum on the ethnicity of perpetrator will be publish ? as the Home Secretary have acknowledge , one of IICSA ' s main recommendation be mandatory reporting to the police by people in position of responsibility . the last Government be in the process of implement that recommendation , via a measure in the Criminal Justice Bill , which fall because of the early election . I be glad that she have announce that she will continue with the last government ' s proposal in her forthcoming Bill . she can be assure that the opposition will support the Government in the continuation of that measure . finally , the Home Secretary do not address the need for a full national public inquiry into this scandal . while the previous Government do initiate IICSA , under Professor Jay , that be mainly direct at other child sexual abuse and exploitation issue , and it cover only six of the town involve in the gang rape scandal — it do not cover everything . we need to get to the truth . we have new evidence that be of interest to the public , include what Simon Danczuk , the former Labour MP for Rochdale , say about the way that he be pressure into stay silent . we also have evidence of local authority cover this up , and the third report , from last year , on Operation Span , commission by the Mayor of Greater Manchester , Andy Burnham , which expose extremely serious failing by the Crown Prosecution Service . all that need to be look into . will the Home Secretary therefore commission a national statutory public inquiry , which can compel witness to attend , requisition evidence and take evidence under oath ? if the Government will not order that inquiry , the opposition will table an amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill later this week to put the matter to a vote . I hope that member across the House will vote for that full statutory public inquiry , so that we can get to the truth . this be an issue on which I work with Government Ministers when I be shadow Home Secretary and when I be Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , and there have be cross - party consensus on the need to tackle these serious and vile crime . these be the most appalling crime against child : repeat multiple brutal rape of child — particularly young girl , but also young boy — in the most appalling circumstance , and the abuse of child ' s trust , often by people who should have protect and look after they ; institution fail to keep they safe . that be why the independent inquiry be so important , why I and many other across this House call for it , and why we support it , when the previous Government set it up . however , there have just not be enough action to tackle these vile crime . there have not be enough change to policy , and to the way that service operate at a local level . it be a deep failing that those change have not take place . the shadow Home Secretary use the example of the duty to report , which be incredibly important . it be about prevent any chance of people , include professional , turn a blind eye to abuse , and cover up child abuse and exploitation in the most appalling way . it be about make that a criminal offence . we call for that 10 year ago . his party have a decade to introduce that — a decade that we have lose ; a decade without those power and measure in place . the hon . Gentleman talk , rightly , about the taskforce , which I mention . we have support not just continue with that taskforce , but accelerate its work . the number of arrest in the most recent quarter increase significantly on the previous quarter . what I want to see most of all be perpetrator behind bar . I want to see perpetrator pay the price for these vile crime against child . in order to achieve that , we have to improve police performance and the co - ordinate work between police and local council across the country , so we will accelerate the work of the taskforce . the hon . Gentleman refer to the ethnicity datum , which be publish in November . the late report be publish in November as a result of the taskforce ' s work . however , I do not think the datum that have be gather be adequate . it do not go far enough . there be a real problem with the way that police force collect datum , which be very haphazard . there be not a proper system for collect datum , or a proper performance framework for police . to be honest , I think that his government withdraw too far from police , and from have the kind of standard that we need to have in place . I hope that we can work together on a strong performance framework , and a clear framework for datum , include for deal with issue around ethnicity . back in 2015 , we have consensus on the need to ensure that race and ethnicity be never use as an excuse not to tackle crime , and that where vulnerable girl supposedly consent , when they in fact do not , that would not be use as an excuse not to tackle crime . we can never accept those excuse . I hope that we will agree on how we do that . on inquiry , the shadow Home Secretary ' s party launch the child abuse inquiry ; it set the term of reference and provide the substantial funding for it . he could have raise concern about the inquiry ' s term of reference and scope , and the extent of its report , at any point , include after it report , but he do not do so until last week . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will support the work that Oldham be determined to take forward , hopefully replicate the important Telford inquiry . I hope , too , that he be prepared to work with the victim and survivor panel , which will help we to take forward the further investigation , review and inquiry that should take place , both locally and across the country , in order to protect child victim . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . child sexual exploitation and abuse be a heinous crime . it happen everywhere — in all community and in all setting — and we must all be vigilant and do what we can to address it . my right hon . Friend mention the importance of ensure that victim of CSE be at the heart of all that we do , and I support she wholeheartedly on that . if it be the will of the victim of the abuse in Oldham to have an additional review of the circumstance that lead to their abuse , I will also wholeheartedly support that . will my right hon . friend expand on how we can transparently track progress in implement the recommendation ? it can not be allow that three year after we receive detailed recommendation from a national independent inquiry , we be still wait for their implementation . my hon . friend have work immensely hard to champion the victim and survivor of terrible crime . she raise important point about the prevalence of these appalling crime , the need to be vigilant , wherever this abuse be to be find — in any kind of institution , across community and across the country — and the importance of track progress . the Telford inquiry be set up in such a way that Tom Crowther , who lead the inquiry , go back each year to do a follow - up report and to track progress , which have be really important . we have encourage those look at this matter in Oldham to be in touch with those involve in Telford , and I be glad that Tom Crowther have agree to work with the Government on how we can make this work more widely . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . no child should ever have to face sexual exploitation or abuse . there should simply be no place for this horrific , abhorrent behaviour in our society . we must keep every child and young person impact by these terrible , sicken crime in our thought today . we owe it to the survivor to ensure that justice be deliver , which mean require perpetrator to face the full force of the law , but also ensure that the right step be take to stop child face this vile abuse in the future . the expansive independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , which publish its report in 2022 , set out how to do just that . however , under the previous Conservative Government , progress on implement iicsa ' s recommendation stall . Professor Alexis Jay , the chair of the inquiry , say that she be " frustrated " by the then Government ' s lack of action . will the Home Secretary say when we can expect a clear timeline for the full implementation of IICSA ' s recommendation , which Professor Jay have urge ? of course , that work can not be siloe in the Home Office , so I would welcome more detail about how cross - Government work to implement the recommendation will be co - ordinated . victim and survivor deserve more than warm word — they deserve action . it be my sincere hope that we can work together across this House to make that a reality , and can resist turn far too many child ' s suffer into a political football . I welcome the point that the hon . Member make . historically , there have be a lot of consensus across the House about the importance of this work , but often there have be very slow progress ; we have to change that . she rightly say that this be not just a matter for the Home Office , or even police force , local council and social service ; this must be about work across government and across community . that be why the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , be lead a cross - departmental programme of work respond not just to the iicsa recommendation , but to broad work . some of the work around online abuse be move extremely fast , and we need action there as well . it be important that we set up the victim and survivor panel to work with this group . the victim and survivor need to be at the heart of implementation , so that they do not feel that after they give evidence to the inquiry , that be it — nobody ever listen again . I call the Education Committee Chair , Helen Hayes . several year ago , I support , over a number of month , a constituent of mine who suffer horrific sexual abuse as a child in the care of Lambeth council , as she prepare to give evidence to the independent inquiry on child sexual abuse , chair by Professor Jay . it be unimaginably hard for victim and survivor to give evidence to that inquiry , relive the abuse that they suffer and be retraumatise . the fact that they do so be exceptionally important , and I pay tribute to their courage . my constituent and thousand of other victim and survivor give their evidence so that their experience could be at the heart of Professor Jay ' s recommendation . do the Home Secretary agree that if we be really to put victim and survivor first , the priority must be to act on what they have already tell we , and to implement the iicsa recommendation at pace , and in full ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to her constituent , and to the more than 7 , 000 victim and survivor who give evidence to the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse and exploitation . the inquiry take seven year — many year of people bravely speak out about some of the most difficult and traumatic thing imaginable , which none of we would ever want anybody to have to go through . she be also right that they must not feel that their evidence be just empty word that get lose in the air , even though an inquiry take place . we have to make sure that there be action . some of that action may be difficult , and some may require very hard work , but we have to make sure that we take it forward and make progress to protect child for the future . I call Select Committee member Robbie Moore . rape gang and the grooming of child have haunt Keighley and the wide Bradford district for decade , yet local leader have consistently refuse to launch an inquiry . the national IICSA report , which the Home Secretary be treat as a silver bullet , be not an inquiry into rape gang . nor do it reference Keighley or Bradford once , despite many , include I , fear that the scale of this issue across the Bradford district will dwarf the scale of the issue in Rotherham . if the Home Secretary believe that the IICSA report give we all the information that we need to tackle this vile and disgusting crime , can she tell I how many child across the Bradford district have be abuse through child sexual exploitation ? who be the perpetrator , and when can my constituent expect to see they behind bar or deport ? appalling crime have take place against child in Bradford , Keighley and across the country — truly appal crime . all of we have to face up to the fact that child sexual abuse and exploitation continue . this be not just about historical crime , but continue crime and abuse of hundred of thousand of child across the country . that be why it be so important , first of all , that we take forward the propose reform , and that we ensure a way to keep victim and survivor at their very heart . some of that must be about how we change the way that police and council work together to implement reform , include on the duty to report . the hon . Gentleman raise local concern . we will work with Tom Crowther and the victim and survivor panel on how area can well involve survivor and victim in what have happen in their area and ensure that they be properly listen to , so as to get to the truth and make fundamental change . in the last few day , my hometown ' s name , Rochdale , have be exploit by some people who treat child rape as a political game rather than as an appalling crime that should be deal with . the horrific abuse of child by groom gang , many of they predominantly pakistani - heritage grooming gang , be compound by failure by my local council and the local police . all Rochdalians , whatever their background , want to see sex offender prosecute swiftly and punish harshly . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement and ask she to leave no stone unturned in implement all the recommendation of the Jay report — something the Opposition signally fail to do . my hon . friend be right to recognise the seriousness of these crime . the experience in Rochdale include not just the issue around the Pakistani - heritage gang network that he talk about , but issue in care home and other that have be investigate over the year , and the terrible experience of victim and survivor and their family as a result . my hon . friend be also right to say that we need change . that have to be about how we work with victim and survivor in take forward new reform and change , and how we will have to go far in a series of area . the thing about child abuse and exploitation be that perpetrator change all the time and look for new way to abuse child . that be what we have to keep tackle . one of the most shocking detail in respect of the rape gang be the evidence of collusion and corruption among police officer , social worker and local councillor . will the Home Secretary commit today to establish a unit in the National Crime Agency dedicate to investigate not only untried perpetrator but the police officer , social worker and local councillor who be complicit in these disgusting crime ? the hon . Member make an important point . alongside pursue perpetrator — which must always be the great priority because it be about protect victim and ensure that those who commit vile crime face justice — there must be a responsibility on people for their public role , whether in police , local council or other institution . we have see issue around the Church of England , the Catholic Church and other institution that be investigate as part of the inquiry . one reason why we be so keen to change the law — indeed , it be something I raise back when the hon . Member be work in the Home Office — be the importance of the duty to report . that then make it an offence for public official to cover up or fail to report . it be so important that we do that so that we can have proper accountability as well . I sincerely commend the Home Secretary ' s statement . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse be extremely comprehensive . over the course of seven year , it examine 2 million page of evidence and hear from over 7 , 000 survivor , every single one of whom we should pay tribute to today . they relive the most horrific trauma , only for the previous Government to drag their heel in implement the report ' s recommendation . call for a fresh inquiry from the Conservatives and Reform be a shameful attempt to stoke division at the expense of victim , survivor and child . I thank the Home Secretary for refuse to give in to that deeply harmful and offensive political point scoring . will she set out a timeline for when she expect to have fully implement the iicsa recommendation ? the clear point be , as my hon . Friend say , that victim and survivor need to be at the heart of the work to take forward the implementation of reform and change , and we want to work with the new victim and survivor panel to draw up timeline . I recognise that some of the issue around reform be difficult and that we need extensive work with victim and survivor on how they can be deal with , but there be other area in which we can move really swiftly , such as change the law on the duty to report , overhaul the way in which we collect information and datum , and put in place proper monitoring system in local area in respect of child sexual exploitation and abuse . I hope we can build a sense of consensus on our objective , which be to protect child . that be what this should all be about , and I hope that everyone will sign up to it . considerable evidence tell we that child expose to domestic violence be at increase risk of abuse themselves . grow up , I be one of those child , and as a survivor I be appalled to have see the shadow Home Secretary weaponise this issue in the way we see early , I be appalled to see the like of Reform play this issue like a political football , and I be appal that zero of the 20 recommendation in Professor Jay ' s report have be implement so far . in the light of the link between domestic abuse and child abuse , I have table a Bill to create a dedicated set of domestic abuse offence in the law for the first time . will the Home Secretary meet I to discuss the Bill ' s provision and how we can well respect and protect survivor across the country ? I thank the hon . member for speak out about his personal experience . I realise that be never an easy thing to do , and I respect he for do it . as he say , there be all kind of link , and domestic abuse in the household have an incredibly damaging impact on the family and on child grow up . we have to see the work on the protection of child as part of the wide work on public protection , and as be strongly link to our mission to halve the incidence of violence against woman and girl over the next 10 year . the Safeguarding Minister will be keen to discuss with the hon . member his proposal relate to domestic abuse and how we can work together on these issue . rise — order . the level of interest show how important this issue be , but I will struggle to get everybody in unless member keep their question short and the answer be just as short . I call Chris Murray , who be a member of the Select Committee . the focus of this debate should not be on the politic , on what be in the newspaper or on what be on social medium ; it should be on the child themselves . for four year before come to the House , I work on prevent trafficking , especially the trafficking of child victim around the country for sex . the story that I hear would chill your bone , especially the story of those who seek protection from the authority but end up back in the hand of their trafficker . there be so much more that we could do for those child . I know that not just from my own experience but because it be there in black and white , in the finding of the inquiry . we have 2 million page of evidence and 700 witness , and zero recommendation have be implement . will the Home Secretary commit to put safeguarding first rather than put politic first , as people be so transparently try to do , and implement the finding as quickly as possible ? I welcome the work my hon . friend have do in this policy area . he be right to talk about young people and child be traffic around the country . there be some concern evidence that , for example , although work have be do to identify people be traffic through county line — often boy and young man — it have not sufficiently identify the young woman and teenage girl who be be traffic around for sexual exploitation . we need to ensure that improvement be make in that regard . the labour lot over there be bang on about play politic with this important issue , but the last time I attend a debate on child rape gang only one Labour Back Bencher turn up . they should hang their head in shame . do the Home Secretary agree that we need a specific inquiry into why young british white girl be be systematically rape by man of pakistani heritage ? we need to make sure that young people and child be be protect . these be vile crime against child . across the country we have see young girl , teenager and young boy who have be exploit by perpetrator in the most cruel and horrendous way . we have see abuse by pakistani - heritage gang , we have see paedophile gang operate online , we have see abuse in community and institution and family home , and all those crime be truly horrendous . after the Rotherham inquiry in 2014 , when we see appalling abuse by , in that case , a Pakistani - heritage gang , I call for a duty to report . I call for the law to be change to place a responsibility on public servant to report child abuse , and to make it an offence to cover it up . the Government of whom the hon . Gentleman be a part for many year fail to bring in that duty to report , and we have lose a decade . we have to change the law . we have to make sure that we go after abuse without fear or favour , wherever it be find , in order to secure justice and protection for victim , and that dangerous perpetrator end up behind bar . I associate myself with the Home Secretary ' s remark condemn those who perpetrate these horrific crime . I stand with all victim of child sexual exploitation and sexual violence . as the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) know , there be an independent review of child sexual exploitation in Bradford , which report in 2021 . a cross - party committee there have oversee the local change , and I commend the action of West Yorkshire police in lock up more than 20 perpetrator since 2021 . do my right hon . friend agree that the failure of the previous Government to take action on the Jay report be a disgrace ? what further action by police and local authority be need to tackle these pernicious crime ? my hon . friend have rightly refer to the work do by West Yorkshire police not only to look at public protection currently but to pursue historic investigation , which continue to be important because people often feel unable to come forward and tell their story about the abuse that have take place until many year later . when survivor be brave enough to come forward , it be incredibly important for their story to be investigate fully , and for operation like those run by West Yorkshire police into historic abuse to continue . we owe it to victim and survivor to make sure that change happen in practice , and that include change the law as part of the policing and crime Bill . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . it be important to remember that these terrible crime could happen to anyone and could be perpetrate by anyone , irrespective of colour , class , heritage or geography . I think the Home Secretary be right that the public want to see action now . frankly , I remain unconvinced that a new public inquiry will throw any new light or information on this issue . the good place for victim to have their story tell be in court , when the perpetrator be bring to justice . may I ask the Home Secretary to make it clear to the world of local government and police that the implementation of rule and regulation be colour and class blind ? too many of these victim be simply dismiss as — to use that medium phrase — white trash . they be poor , in many instance not particularly well educate , often in trouble with the authority , and too easily dismiss . that be where the failure really take place : they be dismiss for who they be . that can never happen again . I welcome the hon . member ' s really important point about the response have to be colour - blind and class - blind . it have to see these thing for what they be : really terrible crime , often against the most vulnerable young people , as he say . young people be dismiss because they be vulnerable due to the difficult experience that they might have have . young girl be often not take seriously , and myth operate in the way that service respond . a lot of work have be do to challenge those myth , but the reality be that unless we have a proper , strong performance management framework in place , and strong requirement on local organisation and agency to respond and to take this issue seriously enough , the risk be that it just become lose in a corner , as oppose to be treat as the very serious crime that it be . that be why we want to embed this as part of a proper performance framework for policing , and to work with local council too . Professor Jay hear from my constituent Terry Lodge , who be foster and live a life of slavery , with no education and no childhood . he have suffer the consequence throughout his life . nottinghamshire county council accept all liability for its failing . to its shame , the council be still to make an offer of compensation . do the Home Secretary agree that although Jay ' s recommendation must be implement in full , Nottinghamshire county council must also step up and do the right thing ? my hon . friend make a really important point about the responsibility of local council to recognise the thing that have go wrong in the past , to recognise the responsibility that they owe to local victim and survivor , and to provide the support that those victim and survivor need . I know that my hon . friend the Safeguarding Minister will keep in touch with she about progress , but it be really important that all council make sure that they recognise their responsibility . perpetrator of sexual crime must face the full force of the law , regardless of their race , their religion or their nationality , but an overseas bad - faith actor be use truly horrific case of group - base child rape to demonise a community and slander a Minister of the Crown — someone who have genuine experience of help victim of abuse . this narrative be false , and it be dangerous . many report from 2015 to 2024 have conclude that the common denominator for sexual violence be not immigration , race or culture . the real point here be that if victim be be falsely tell that perpetrator look a certain way or be part of a certain community , they will have a false sense of security when they be with people who do not fit that stereotype . the real issue here be that we need the discussion to be focus on victim , not political rhetoric , and we need evidence - base policy . one of the point that the independent inquiry make be about the broad nature of this abuse and the way in which it can be find anywhere . when we have half a million child be subject to child sexual abuse or exploitation every year , there be an impact right across the country . it mean that we have serious problem and failing within all kind of different institution , as the inquiry find . it look into issue within local council , care home , faith organisation include the Church of England , and different grooming and exploitation group . wherever such abuse be find , we have to treat it as a terrible crime against child — no excuse . no excuse can be make for perpetrator , and no excuse can be make for inaction . there have to be strong action to go after the perpetrator , whoever and wherever they be , and protection for the victim , whoever and wherever they be . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . under this government , no matter an abuser ' s race and where they be , they will have nowhere to hide . the job in hand be action , implementation and change . I be glad to hear that she will set up a new victim panel , because the victim of sexual abuse — woman and child — be usually forget in the wild whirlwind of Twitter . I have to say that it be usually man use this issue to grind a political axe . do she agree that it be not a bandwagon to jump on for anybody ' s political tv talk show ? this be a serious issue . victim deserve to lead the process , and I be sure she will enable that . these be really serious crime . for someone like Alexis Jay , who work in this area over very many year before she lead the independent inquiry , and for other who have be work in this area over very many year , it have to be about the victim and survivor , but it also have to be about get serious about deliver change and make sure that change happen in practice . therefore , it have to be about how we make sure that there be proper monitoring process to follow up change , rather than just think , " well , an announcement have be make , " but nothing change and nothing be actually do . far more important than the debate take place on social medium be the practical plan for deliver change . the Government have be very keen to set up 60 review since come into office , include one on social care , but they have refuse a formal request from Oldham council for a national statutory inquiry into child sexual abuse , grooming and gang rape . why not let sunlight , transparency and justice into the process ? I say to the right hon . Lady that , as I make clear in my statement , we support the independent review that Oldham council be plan to set up . we have also suggest that it work with those who be involve in the Telford inquiry , which be extremely effective ; Tom Crowther , who lead that inquiry , have agree to that . interestingly , one of those who give evidence to both the Telford inquiry and the national inquiry have describe how she find it much easy to give evidence to the Telford inquiry and think it be more effective at get to the nitty - gritty of what have go wrong in Telford . I suspect that that be why the previous Government , of which the right hon . Lady be a part , say repeatedly to Oldham council that it should pursue the local inquiry . we want to make sure that there be proper investigation , inquiry and review wherever there be evidence that need to be pursue . most importantly of all , there have to be police investigation to get justice . in 2014 - 15 , the then Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee do a report on CSE in Rotherham . that report draw heavily on the evidence from Alexis Jay ' s first report , which be on the problem in Rotherham , the failing of the police , the failing of the council and the failing of Ofsted . what that surely show be that a local authority - commission inquiry , which be what Alexis Jay ' s first inquiry be , can get to the bottom of these problem , expose the failing and lead to improvement at local level . surely Oldham council can do exactly the same . my hon . friend be right , because that be the work that Oldham council be now take forward . we want to work with Oldham council and to be able to support it , and we want it to be able to see the work that be do in Telford , which be effective at deliver change . Tom Crowther go back to see the work in Telford to make sure that progress be be make . that be crucial , because it be no good just have inquiry that do not actually lead to any change or anything different happening . there have to be detailed work , be it at local level or at national level , but there also have to be follow - through . the Labour Welsh Government be responsible for child safeguarding in Wales , and the Home Secretary say that none of the independent inquiry ' s 20 recommendation be implement by the previous Tory Government . six recommendation apply to Wales , but no new action be take there either . give that her statement rightly put victim and survivor first , will she tell I how victim and survivor in Wales will now be able to demand a culture of real change ? many issue obviously cut across , include issue around police that apply to England and Wales — for example , the police performance framework that we be talk about , and some of the data issue that we be talk about — so we need to work with Welsh police force and the Welsh Government on take the measure forward . they be immensely important , because part of the problem have be that there be no sense of what be actually be measure and what will actually change . what be the performance standard that we expect from all police force right across the country ? if those do not exist , too little change in practice . a performance management framework have be miss from Wales , as well as from across England , and that be what we be determined to introduce . the horrific case of CSE and rape across the country have expose deep failure in the safeguarding of vulnerable child and , as member have say , there be unfortunately too many time when they be not treat as child by the agency that should have support they . I welcome the step that the Home Secretary have set out , but will she ensure that there be long - term funding to support survivor in rebuild their life , that their voice will lead on reform and that we support local charity such as the Kirklees rape and sexual abuse centre and the Pennine domestic abuse partnership in my constituency , which do fantastic work but have to fight for funding every year ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the local service ; the Safeguarding Minister also be a strong supporter of the work that that service be do . my hon . friend be right about the importance of make sure that we support victim and survivor , and we need to work with the victim and survivor panel on how we take that forward . she be also right to say that part of the problem be that the child be not treat or respect as child . they be just treat as somehow be adult and not as be exploit and subject to the most terrible of crime . that be one of the fundamental thing that have to change . I also thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I think the House be overwhelmingly behind she in deal with these difficult subject and implement the finding of the Jay report . however , I be listen carefully to these exchange , and the argument against a further public inquiry — in response to my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , for example — seem rather thin : " oh , we have already get too much to do , " " oh , it probably win ' t find out anything new , " " oh , let the council do it on its own . " I just wonder whether this be in fact a matter of public confidence . if the Home Secretary can not restore public confidence without a further public inquiry , please will she not rule it out ? we obviously support the independent inquiry into child abuse , include the two - year investigation that it do into organise network of child sexual exploitation . that be immensely important as well . we also continue to support the local inquiry , review and investigation , include in Oldham . I have particularly highlight the work that be do in Telford , and there be a reason for that . the Telford inquiry be set up as a local independent inquiry , but it have prove more effective than many of the other piece of work that have be undertake in this area , through have victim and survivor at the heart of that local inquiry from the very beginning . they be involve not just in give evidence but in draw up and shape the way that the whole inquiry go forward . it also have in place a proper framework for follow up and make sure that , a year later , progress be be make and action be be take . we want to learn from what work effectively in Telford . interestingly , that be different from what have happen in some other area , so the way in which it have work be significant . that be why we believe that the right next step will be for Tom Crowther , who lead that inquiry , and the victim and survivor who be involve in Telford , to share that experience with other area , include Oldham , so that we can make sure we have a proper framework for local area and institution to get to the truth about what have happen in their area and to ensure that change take place . at the same time , we must recognise that we have the two - year inquiry into child exploitation nationally as part of the overarching review , and that a series of recommendation from the overarching review have still not be act on . so let we work with the victim and survivor panel that we be determined to set up on what be the good form for future investigation and work . rise — Order . I be plan to run the statement only until 7 pm , so it might be helpful if we have very short question and perhaps short answer from the Home Secretary . may I just say , on behalf of every decent - minded MP across the House , how powerful and important it be to see the Safeguarding Minister here on the Front Bench with the Home Secretary ? it be a testament to their commitment to get this matter right and not be deflect , however hard other people try , from what really matter , which be the victim of these horrific crime . I be proud to sit behind they and to support the work they be do , and I welcome what they have say about bring in a victim panel . in the spirit of the cross - party working that we will need to do on this , may I also welcome the word of the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) ? he be right that the common story we hear time and again from victim of abuse — whether from groom gang , in care home or in their own home — be that they be not believe ; nobody listen to they . how can we have the national conversation that we need to have about the culture of belief , put victim first and finally end the silence that have mean so many have be the victim of these perpetrator for so long ? my hon . friend be right ; we have to ensure that victim ' voice be hear and that they can have the confidence to come forward , because often they feel that they will not be believe and will not get the support they need if they do speak out . that can make it extremely difficult . I also support her word about the Safeguarding Minister , who not only do a phenomenal job in the Home Office now but have be a tireless champion for victim of abuse and exploitation for very many year . without she , there be no doubt that the Home Office would not be make the progress we be now make on tackle these serious crime . many victim of the grooming gang still do not feel that justice have be do . it be very concern that the two man lead the Greater Manchester inquiry resign because they feel that they be be block from access the information they need . the IICSA be an important start , but it be not — and be never mean to be — a detailed report into the grooming gang . it look at six place where the grooming gang operate , but they operate in more than 40 place . the right hon . Lady say that the answer be locally lead inquiry , but we have have year for that to happen and it have not happen , or it have not happen properly . indeed , in many case the local authority be part of the problem and we be ask they to mark their own homework . I totally agree with she about the importance of the Jay recommendation , but will she please rethink so that we can actually listen to the voice of those who , to this day , have never be listen to ? the whole point of we set up a victim and survivor panel be to ensure that the voice of victim and survivor continue to be hear as part of the implementation , as part of the action and as part of the further investigation that need to take place . this can not be a case of simply have a one - off inquiry and then everybody turn their back , move on and talk about something different ; we have to ensure that there be serious change . there be obviously a two - year inquiry that look at organise grooming gang and child exploitation , but we have also have the issue around Telford — Telford be not include in detail as part of that inquiry — and there will be other area where detailed question be still unresolved . that be why we want Tom Crowther to be able to work with the Government and with other area on how good to ensure that victim and survivor feel that their voice will be hear , in the way that the hon . Gentleman describe . he be right that too often they do not feel that , and that be often because , frankly , we still need further police investigation into those terrible crime and the perpetrator who have still not be bring to justice . anyone who have work with survivor , as I have , know how extraordinarily painful but important it be to have the IICSA inquiry and for survivor to be hear , to be believe and , crucially , to finally see action take . I pay tribute to the thousand of survivor who participate in the inquiry . survivor should not have to repeatedly relive their trauma in order to see action finally be take , and they have tell we that now be the time for action . I refer to the recent quote from Alexis Jay , who describe the inaction of the previous Government as " weak " and " apparently disingenuous " with regard to what they do . do the Home Secretary agree that the way to protect vulnerable child be to take action and implement the recommendation as quickly as possible ? we need to take forward the work on the inquiry , with victim and survivor , on a continue basis . I would also highlight that there be some area that will need to go well beyond the independent inquiry , such as the way in which online abuse and online grooming be accelerate . gang and organised network be operate online and then draw young people offline for physical abuse , as well as for share terrible image . that be a massive and grow crime , and I be really worried about it . we be go to need much strong action . whether it be through social medium company take more responsibility or have strong measure online , we will need more action . Alexis Jay ' s independent inquiry into child sexual abuse have not be fully implement . the inquiry recommend legislate to force tech firm to take strong action on online abuse material . since then , this House have pass the Online Safety Act 2023 , and Ofcom set out its implementation plan last October , but how can the Government ensure that tech company take strong action on online abuse ? the hon . Gentleman be right to refer to the Online Safety Act , which take long to come into force than I would have wish , but it be now be implement . that mean new measure will come into place in the spring , with further measure and requirement in the summer . we will also come forward with further measure on online exploitation and abuse , and we will set they out in due course . I warmly welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement , and I look forward to the timeline she will present for implement the recommendation . in her statement , she mention support and belief for victim and survivor . one of the big supportive action she could take be to consider prevent CSE rapist from see their child bear from these crime , once they be convict , as they use access to their child to continue their abuse and to re - victimise the girl whose life they have already ruin once . my hon . friend make a really important point . this can be the most appalling way of continue this abuse , as that be what it be , with abuser use the court and other institution effectively to continue their abuse and exploitation . we will be take action in this area , and we will be put forward more measure . both the Safeguarding Minister and the Victims Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , can have further discussion with she about that . in Telford we see the systematic abuse of so many child who be rape , and we see a cover - up by the police and council official , yet not a single member of the police force or a single council official in Telford , or anywhere else in the country , have go to jail . will the Secretary of State use her power to set up a specialist unit within the National Crime Agency , as my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) say , to look at this and ensure that some of those who cover up these crime be hold to account ? I do think there need to be strong action on accountability , so I think the right hon . Gentleman make a serious point about these issue across public service , but one of the most effective way to do that be by strengthen the legal framework , include the legal requirement on those who be responsible , through have a duty to report and make it clear that block and cover up be an offence . where there be exist power , we must ensure that they be properly use and strengthen . I gently remind the right hon . Gentleman that he be a Minister , include an Education Minister , over many year when people be call for a strengthening of the law . I hope he will now support that strengthening of the law , even though he do not at the time . I warmly welcome the measure that the Home Secretary have set out to pursue perpetrator and to challenge the culture of cover - up , and I also welcome her strong statement that nobody should resist the urge to report child rape for fear of be label a racist . do she share my contempt for those who weaponise the suffering of victim , particularly through online disinformation , to pursue their own hateful agenda ? the attack by Elon Musk on the Safeguarding Minister in the last few day cross a line for I , so I deactivate my x account early . at what point do the continue presence of Government Departments on that platform legitimise a space that be now not only poisonous but dangerous ? my hon . friend be right that this have to be about show respect for victim and survivor ; it can not be about perpetuate misinformation online for the sake of click and audience . we have a responsibility to make practical change , and I hope we can stick to this House ' s core tradition of sit opposite each other , across the Dispatch Boxes and across the Chamber , to talk about what really matter to our constituent , rather than simply chase headline online . I welcome the measure that the Home Secretary have announce today on mandatory reporting , on groom be an aggravating factor , and on the well use of datum , but the fact remain that there be still widespread suspicion that there have be a cover - up because of the nature of these crime and those who perpetrate they . do she agree that there be a need for a national inquiry because it have be see that the problem be wide than be originally envisage , because there have be a disgraceful cover - up by public body , and because there be allegation that the CPS have a role in ensure that people be not prosecute ? rather than hide behind the rhetoric that this be a far - right demand , do she not accept that this would be a reasonable response from a Government who say they want to deal with the problem and restore public confidence ? the very reason why I and many of we call for an independent inquiry many year ago be because of the deep concern about the scale of the hide abuse and about the total failure of institution to respond . there be concern about information be hide , and about authority not take the action that be need . that be why we call for an inquiry in the first place , and it be why the previous Government invest over £ 150 million in that inquiry over seven year . the inquiry rightly include a two - year investigation into the grooming gang and organise child exploitation , but further work need to be do in local area — I have mention Telford , and Oldham be now take forward that work as well . ultimately , this all go back to the need for police investigation . the police be the one who have the power to get to the truth about the perpetrator who be commit crime , to gather the evidence , to get they before a court and to get they behind bar . over half a million child be sexually abuse each year , and there be about as many perpetrator , yet some Opposition Members want to focus only on a few , rather than the big case we have hear about involve tv presenter , the Catholic Church and other . this be something we have to take seriously , rather than exploit it to chase headline or look for future funder for political party . we be take action , lead by two formidable woman who will not let any abuser get away with exploit woman , man or child anywhere , particularly online . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee will tomorrow begin an inquiry into algorithm . can the Home Secretary reassure the House that action be the priority for this government , not further year of talk ? action be what survivor need . my hon . friend be right that we need action , and we need to see progress and change . further area will need investigation and inquiry . for example , I welcome the Select Committee inquiry she mention , particularly the investigation into online abuse and exploitation . as well as the expansion of online abuse , I be deeply concerned about the grow number of young people who be be draw into abuse , and especially abuse between teenager . that type of exploitation and harm of young people be extremely serious , and it be escalate . I call Dr Caroline Johnson to ask the final question . the House have agree this afternoon that cultural sensitivity should not get in the way of police investigation . however , it would appear that they have and they perhaps still be , and that victim have be let down and that current victim might be be fail even today . there be a specific problem with gang of organise man , who be systematically rape and abuse young child . within that group , there be an over - representation of man of pakistani heritage . we need to understand why , but piecemeal investigation , town by town , will not help we to do that , will not serve the interest of victim , by ensure they get the justice they deserve , and will not prevent future case . the hon . Lady rightly raise an important point that be first raise as part of the Jay inquiry , more than 10 year ago , and then by the Casey inquiry , and she be right that we need to see action . despite those issue have be raise over a decade ago , in many area — not just groom gang and exploitation , but other area of child sexual exploitation and child sexual abuse — there have still not be any action take to change thing , which be why we have to make sure that action be take . we have to look at the recommendation make , include in the two - year strand that be part of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and we have to work with the victim and survivor panel to identify further area for investigation . we have to improve ethnicity datum , which be not adequate . we publish what we have in November , but it be not strong enough . that kind of datum can inform the kind of investigation that need to take place . we need to ensure that we look into child abuse wherever it be to be find across the country , in whatever institution or community . crime be crime , and child need protect , wherever they be . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . apology to hon . member who do not get in , but we have two further item of business . Backbench Business Frozen russian Assets : Ukraine it be the intention to run each of the Backbench Business debate for just an hour and a half , give the time we be leave with . I beg to move , that this House recognise the horror of Russia ' s renew illegal invasion of Ukraine ; far recognise the necessity of a ukrainian victory over Russia ; agree that the United Kingdom must do all it can to support Ukraine in its fight against russian aggression ; acknowledge that there be approximately $ 300 billion of russian asset freeze in the G7 and EU ; and call on the Government to investigate way that these frozen asset could be legally seize and use to fund the war effort in Ukraine , and to report back to the House with its finding . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for the debate , and colleague from across the House for come together to debate this important motion . Sasha be 12 and from Mariupol . he be cook outside with his mother , because their apartment have be bomb , when they be shell . some shrapnel go into Sasha ' s eye , imperille his eyesight . luckily , they manage to get to a first aid station , where the shrapnel be remove and , thankfully , his eyesight be save . shortly after , they be capture by russian force and take to a filtration camp , where they be separate — " you go over there , and you go over there " — and not even allow to say goodbye to each other . we have echo of that in our european history . Sasha be take to a further location in occupy Ukraine . he be tell that his mother do not want he anymore , and that he would be send to live with a good russian family . Sasha be braver , cleverer and more tenacious than I , and he manage to get hold of a mobile phone . he ring his grandmother and tell she where he be . through an extraordinary series of event and organisation , his grandmother manage to get he out of that situation , and he now live with she . Sasha do not know if his mum be dead or alive , and he be still look for she . extraordinarily , Sasha be one of the lucky one . he escape his abduction , his russification and indoctrination , and be sever forever from his birth family and place — " adopt " be the term that be use — with a russian family . we can not say the same for at least 19 , 000 other ukrainian child . the ukrainian Government have verify and document 19 , 000 case of ukrainian child be take from Ukraine , place with russian family , and tell to forget Ukraine and to love Russia . that be one of the small estimate . the United Nations think 120 , 000 ukrainian child have be abduct and send to Russia . I have experience war , so I think I have a good handle on the full range of human behaviour , but extraordinarily , there be russian official who be boast about the number of ukrainian child they have abduct and place with russian family . estimate range from 300 , 000 to 700 , 000 . crime like that do not go unnoticed . in 2023 , the International Criminal Court issue arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova - Belova , who have possibly the most orwellian job title — child ' s right commissioner for the President of the Russian Federation — for the war crime of unlawful abduction , deportation and transfer of child from Ukraine to Russia . worse still , that crime amount to genocide , because the abduction of child and their indoctrination into another culture be consider genocide . there be echo here of Europe ' s past . never again , they say — never again . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on securing today ' s important debate . it have be nearly three year since Putin try to illegally invade the whole of Ukraine , lead to devastating loss of life , displacement and destruction . we must of course ensure that Ukraine have all the support it need , but surely it should not just be my Slough constituent and UK taxpayer contribute . give that Russia and Putin be no long listen to the international community , and show no sign of stop , be it not time for our government to use frozen russian asset to ensure that Putin pay directly for the damage that he be inflict on the ukrainian people ? I thank the Chair of the Defence Committee , on which I have the honour of serve . he be of course right , and that be why we have come here today . as I make progress with my speech , I will set out some of the argument . " never again " leave we with a moral question : how do we answer the genocidal abduction of child on european soil ? it also leave we with a strategic question , to which I will now turn . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure the debate , and for the wonderful way that he have start his speech . it be important to recognise that the abduction of child from Ukraine — from Crimea and the Donbas — do not start in 2022 ; it start in 2014 . it have be go on for 11 year . the figure that he give be broadly correct , I think , from meeting that I have have with Crimea Platform and other in Ukraine , but the second world war , to which he allude , last only six year . the camp exist for only three year , and we be 11 year into this child abduction . international humanitarian law effectively start with Nuremburg . do he agree that we will need to take a much long and deep look at reset international law , post the Ukraine war ? I agree . this be a war crime of stupendous scale , breadth and width . there be a question of not only justice , but get those child back to their family in Ukraine . that be part of the work that we all must do once the war be over , with Russia defeat and Ukraine victorious . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring the debate forward ; I be happy to be a signatory to the request for it to the Backbench Business Committee . do he agree that the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine since the start of the war have escalate , with thousand injure and kill , million flee for well life elsewhere — some 300 such family be work and live in my constituency of Strangford — shortage of medical supply , hospital overwhelmed , and an energy and food crisis ? the thrust of the debate be that freeze russian asset do not work ; they have to be seize . I quite agree . in Tunbridge Wells , I have be hearten by the number of family who have take in ukrainian refugee . we also have a ukrainian school , to continue the important work of enshrine and protect ukrainian culture , because when people commit genocide , one of the thing they do be destroy the culture of their enemy . move on to the strategic question , I can not state plainly enough that Ukraine be fight for we . Ukraine be fight for the United Kingdom , and for the security of Europe . Putin will not stop if he succeed in Ukraine . he seek to recreate a russian empire , or at least a sphere of influence , the territory of which be currently cover by country that wish to remain free — country , I hasten to add , that be our ally by treaty . I speak of Lithuania , Latvia , Estonia and Poland . it be important that we look to the future . in only two week , President - elect Trump will be inaugurate . we do not know how he will respond . we do not know what he will do . he may not know himself what he will do , but we know that he feel differently about Ukraine , about the security of Europe , and about Russia . why be that important ? the United Kingdom should be proud of the leadership role that we have play over Ukraine — from the first next - generation light anti - tank weapon to the £ 3 billion and then some that we give every year . we have work with ally throughout . in total , $ 380 billion of support — security , humanitarian and financial — have be give to Ukraine . of that , $ 180 billion have come from the US , so we see immediately that the US , as so often in international affair , be totally indispensable . the security of Europe rest upon american support . if that support be withdraw , we have a problem . luckily for we , we have option . when the renew invasion in February 2022 be inflict upon Ukraine , we move swiftly with ally to freeze russian asset . there be some $ 300 billion of russian state asset in G7 country . some $ 200 billion of those asset be in Euroclear in Belgium , and there be probably more than £ 20 billion - worth of asset in the United Kingdom . the Minister will have a well idea than I . perhaps he can undertake to update the House on the exact scale of russian asset currently hold in UK institution . in June last year , the G7 agree that we would use the interest from those asset to support Ukraine , and this House pass the enable legislation , cross - party , just before Christmas . it amount to about £ 50 billion with which we will support Ukraine — a very welcome first step . do my hon . friend agree that the UK , work shoulder to shoulder with our european ally , must lead the way in confiscate and repurpose frozen russian asset for Ukraine ? by ensure that Ukraine have every financial and military resource that it need , we can not only help the Ukrainians to reclaim their country but send a powerful message that Britain stand unwavere in the defence of freedom and democracy against russian aggression . my hon . friend be right : it be about not just action that lead to practical outcome but the signal that we send to our geopolitical opponent . I be listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman have to say , and I agree with much of it , include that Russia must pay for what it have do , in term of support Ukraine in its war and the reconstruction to come , whatever that look like . however , do he share my concern that be we to act unilaterally , or indeed with other , we may encourage the attractiveness of other reserve currency and system , in particular China ' s , and that capital among the $ 12 trillion or so globally invest may find its way to Beijing rather than currently safe destination in the western world ? I can answer the right hon . Gentleman directly . I be not advocate that we move unilaterally . I do not think that would be a good idea . if one country be to move , that allow capital flight to other G7 country . the problem with the chinese currency be that it be not fully convertible . it be not an international currency in which people like to keep lot of their reserve . that be why I be advocate for the G7 as a whole to move . look at the currency of the G7 : the dollar , sterling , the euro — $ 200 billion of these asset be denominate in euro — and the yen . these be the major reserve currency of the world . if the G7 country move together , I think we will be safe . the right hon . Gentleman ' s broad point be about the financial stability of international market . that be an important point , but any potential small amount of financial instability create by the G7 country move together would be minuscule compare with the financial instability of Ukraine lose the war . if we want to shift the dial on Ukraine , especially in the face of a potential drawdown in US support , we need to go far and fast and seize the $ 300 billion of frozen asset and send they to Ukraine . there be a clear legal pathway for do so . the international law doctrine of state countermeasure say that state can take countermeasure against other state if there have be grievous violation of international law , such as the genocidal abduction of child . I hear the question from the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) on co - ordinate action . while no G7 nation have yet move fully to seize russian state asset , Canada and the US have enact legislation to permit they to do so . do the hon . Member agree that legislation be an important step forward and that the threat of immediately seize $ 300 billion of immobilise asset be a tool that would add pressure on Russia ' s already wane economy ? it be as if I give the hon . member a copy of my speech , because I will come to that in my next paragraph . in April 2024 , the US pass the REPO Act , which enable the US to seize frozen russian asset and give they to Ukraine for she and , indeed , our defence . what be more , it become clear over the past month that the US have be quietly push its G7 ally — include we , one assume — to take the step to investigate how to seize those asset and send they to Ukraine . perhaps the Minister could feed back to the House what conversation have be have with the US State Department , what it have ask we to do and how we have respond . as my hon . Friend ask the Minister a question , let I highlight something . I hope this Government will have a well record on seize asset than the previous one . the former Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab suggest that Sutton Place in my woke constituency should be sell to benefit Ukraine or to house ukrainian refugee ; it be sit idle despite the fact that it have be sanction as it be own by usmanov . do my hon . friend agree that the new Government need to do much well and sell asset like Sutton Place to benefit Ukraine ? order . intervention have be far too long . I point out at the beginning that only 90 minute will be allow for the debate . perhaps the Member in charge will consider conclude his remark shortly . I be come to a conclusion , Madam Deputy Speaker . what we ask for in the motion be simple . it be not to seize the asset , although we think the time for that have come , and it be not to act unilaterally , as the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) ask about . we ask the Government to investigate with ally how we can go about seize the asset legally and then to report back to the House on those finding . if the Government agree and will do that , perhaps the Minister could let we know the timeline . this be an issue of unity . we — this House and this country — have be unite in our support for Ukraine and in our opposition to Russia ' s aggression . in the spirit of the unity that we have show on Ukraine and Russia , we humbly beseech the Government to investigate with ally how they can go about seize the asset legally . we have remain united on Ukraine throughout , and we have show exceptional leadership . now be the time to show that leadership again . rise — order . there will be an immediate five - minute time limit . I congratulate the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on secure the debate . there be a bit of a disease in british politic of reach back to the second world war to make a point , but when we walk into this Chamber , we walk through an archway of bomb damage , and when we hear the echo of history , we should listen to they — the hon . Member make that point eloquently . in a sense , it be frustrating that we be even debate whether to do what be in the motion , but it be good that we be have the debate because the fact that we care about the rule of law and the international order be what separate we from Putin and his ally . we have to prove to Putin and his ally that our belief in those thing be not a weakness , and we have to prove that we have the determination to defend our value . in this year , which mark the 80th anniversary of the defeat of fascist aggression in Europe , we have to constantly remember that the freedom we enjoy be win through strength and sacrifice , and that freedom come at a cost . the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells list the enormous price that Ukraine be pay in lose citizen , lose child and lose infrastructure for defend that freedom . the world have say clearly that Putin have to pay the price for that . the UN General Assembly have say that Russia must make " reparation for the injury , include any damage , cause by such act " . this be a debate about balance sheet and bank account , but put a monetary value on the cost of this war be , at good , partial accounting . do my hon . friend agree that Vladimir Putin ' s ally see Britain as a soft touch and a good place to put their money and investment , whether ill - get gain or legal ? be it not now time under a new Government for we to show that this have change ? this government will take it seriously and will take a more rigorous approach than the previous Government . absolutely . as well as listen to the echo of deep history , we have to learn lesson from our more recent failure . I meet a soldier call Dimitri in a ward for wounded soldier in Kyiv . he be strengthen his stump for the day when he could have prosthetic fit to both his now - miss leg . I ask what his hope for the future be , think he would say a holiday , get a job or spending time with his family . he say that it be live life without shame . listen to he , I feel ashamed because , as proud as we all be of the support we have give Ukraine , it have not be enough . we know one thing in this debate : the money that Putin owe be many time great than the money that have be seize . the legal objection to transfer the fund in whole to Ukraine seem to be that under the principle of the use of countermeasure by state the measure must , first , induce a change in policy from the target and , secondly , be reversible . on the first , seize the asset do not just induce the change in policy ; it deliver the change in policy . it pay the reparation in part . on it be reversible , we can give the Kremlin a credit note for the money pay and say it have be take off the total . with the time I have leave to speak , I want to ask the Minister two direct question , but these be really question for all western nation that hold russian state asset but be hesitant about send they in full to Ukraine . first , be there any conceivable situation in which we and our international partner would unfreeze the asset we hold and return they to Russia if Putin have not deliver the reparation he be bind to pay ? secondly , be there any conceivable situation in which Putin would voluntarily give up those reparation ? if we be honest , the answer to both those question have to be no . rather than make policy on an imaginary future that will not come and hold the fund in perpetuity , we should use they now in full — in whole — when Ukraine need they most . if we be hang up on the legal argument , as I say , we should call in a loan and give the Kremlin a credit note . the irony of the debate be that we be at risk of our commitment to the international order prevent we from enforce it . the irony be that Putin , have step outside that international order , be demand its protection . we need to listen to the echo of history as we enter this Chamber and ensure that Ukraine have everything it need to fight and win this war . I congratulate the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on secure the debate . I be sad that it have be reduce from three hour to an hour and a half , because it be an important debate , and I hope that the Minister have time to answer some of the question . in reality , we be in a peculiar position — I do not blame this government , because the previous Government be in the same position — whereby we be , as the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) just say , trap ourselves in the same argument that be mean to release we to get after those who have do egregious harm to other through an illegal invasion of another territory . that be clear , and it be why we should be permit at this stage , where necessary , to seize those frozen asset — it be very simple . there be not time to go through all the legal argument , but there be good reason why we would be able to act in that way , and I would be happy to write to the Minister about they . first , instead of claim that international law prohibit we from do those thing , it be important to remember that the basis of international law be pretty fluid , because it be hugely influence by the politic of the day — otherwise , we would still be trap in what happen in 1950 , even though thing have move on . that be another point : the british Government should not use those argument against action ; they should lead on make the necessary change where possible . my main point be that when it come to freeze and sequester asset , there be a good point at the end of it all . hopefully , we will soon face an end to this war and the brutality , execution , murder and ghastly damage that Russia have inflict on Ukraine . ultimately there must be reparation by the country that invade Ukraine , which be Russia . the trouble be we know very well that if we impose those reparation , Russia will never pay any of they , so the only hope we have be to seize state and oligarch asset and to say that they can be hold in payment of the necessary reparation , and will be release as reparation be pay in accordance with what the UN say at the end of the war . that be one way of use frozen asset : seize they and say , " you will get these back , but only when you have stand up and do what you ' ve be tell to do after this aggressive war . " if member look carefully , they will see that we be already consider take the money earn from asset in bank . that set of asset and their income can not be separate . at the moment , we be talk of separate the income from the asset , as if there be some fundamental difference between who own what . while the state have an asset bank , it also own the money earn from it . we can not just say that we might do one but not the other . if we seize what be earn , we should recognise that that allow we also to seize the asset that be earn that money in the bank . there be no reason why we should not pursue that , and I would be grateful if the Minister respond on that point in due course . I do not believe that there be in international law any obligation or block on do any of this . these argument be be have at the moment in various court case . by the way , we be not talk about the UK unilaterally seize asset . Canada , which have already be mention , and the US have already pass legislation to give they permission to seize those asset — the Anglosphere be begin to come together on this one . there be foot - drag in Germany and France , and very much in Belgium . we know why : Belgium have a huge number of russian asset and seem to be somewhat trouble by the idea of take they over . I say this in cross - party spirit . surely now be the chance for the United Kingdom Government — my Government , because they be elect — to take the lead in argue now for we to use these asset against future reparation and mend what have go on so appallingly in Ukraine . I urge the Government to step up , take that lead and give the rest of the developed world the chance to get that money into the place where it can do the most good . across the House , we agree that we must show Putin that we have the resolve and resource to defeat he . if we do not , a great power war more terrible that we can imagine will come . a century ago , politician on these Benches fail , and what follow be the most destructive war in the history of humankind . stop that horror be repeat depend on we win at war economic , as the motion rightly identify . war economic be simple : whichever side can command great resource and convert they into fighting force will win . win a single battle mean nothing if the other side can keep throw in resource to win the next one . amateur talk tactic ; professional talk logistic . win at war economic mean do three thing . first , we must limit Russia ' s earning and output ; secondly , we must limit Russia ' s ability to convert its earning into fighting force ; and thirdly , we must gain and convert our own resource into fighting force . seize the $ 300 billion will help with the third point only if we convert those resource into fighting force . first , on limit Russia ' s output and earning , Russia ' s earning from oil be still far too high : $ 150 billion a year . ural oil be trade at $ 67 above the price cap . Russia be circumvent that by pad out cost for its shadow fleet in attestation document . Maximilian Hess , the esteemed foreign policy expert , have show that we can strengthen our price cap by make London insurance for foreign port dependent on the proper verification of cost in attestation document . I be pleased that the Office of Financial Sanctions agree to look into that when it give evidence to the Treasury Committee . secondly , we must stop Russia convert its output into munition and material . too many of our western component be find their way to russian frontline . thirdly , we must do more to convert the resource that we need into fighting force . that be where our industrial defence strategy come in . seize the $ 300 billion can help with that . as an economist , I should make clear to the House that seize those asset would not damage our economy or reduce financial stability . however , we must be clear on the how and the why . on the how , we can not seize those asset unilaterally . we hold only about 10 % of they here , while around two third be hold in Europe . we must convince our european ally to do as the Canadians and Americans have do in seize those asset . on the why , seized asset be useful only if we convert they into defence production . the bit - by - bit approach that have characterise support to Ukraine must end ; a large and sustained increase be need . Putin want to rebuild a great Russia and to swallow his neighbour whole . he will attempt to take more of Europe . defeat he mean defeat our own complacency . the history of nation be a history of war . that history change only when the calculation of peace change — through military strength , through sacrosanct border and through democracy . if we do not show that we have the resolve and resource to defeat Putin , we will make the same mistake that member make from these Benches almost a century ago . one of our nation ' s great Prime Ministers stand outside this Chamber , his hand atop his hip . he warn member in this Chamber and lament the time waste without prepare . he speak of the " year which the locust hath eat " — [ Official Report , 12 November 1936 ; Vol . 317 , c . 1101 . ] but he be ignore . member on these Benches be too complacent ; let we not be complacent . member on these Benches fail ; let we not fail . member on these Benches see ocean of blood spill by the youth of this nation ; let we not be the generation that see ocean of blood wash over this continent once more . let we be the generation that keep the peace by show Putin we have the resolve and resource to defeat he . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for secure this vital debate . there be many veteran in this Chamber ; one in nine liberal Democrat mps have serve in the armed force . we know the price of freedom — many of we have see it write on the grave of a friend . there be ten of thousand of Ukrainians pay that bitter price right now , which will all be in vain if we falter in our support . with the looming Trump Administration , that risk be real . as the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) have say , if Ukraine fail , the consequence for our security would be catastrophic . in the same way that our failure to show resolve on Syria perhaps encourage Putin to attack Crimea , our failure to show resolve on Ukraine might encourage he to attack the baltic state , test NATO ' s article 5 , and shatter the peace in Europe . that do not need to be our future . if the G7 seize the $ 300 billion in russian asset , we have the opportunity not only to keep Ukraine in the fight , but to win . many be worried that seize that $ 300 billion could undermine the global financial system ; I be here to argue that that be not the case . as Lawrence Summers — the former US Treasury Secretary — and many other have point out , those fear be overblown , because when those asset be freeze in the first place , there be no observed consequence in financial market . it have be make clear to financial market that the asset of a sovereign aggressor be at risk when they be on deposit in a G7 country , as they should be . the risk that those asset will be seize should already have be substantially price in , reduce the possibility of capital flight from a negative surprise . in any case , where would that capital fly to if the G7 country act together ? the pound , dollar , euro and yen amount to almost 90 % of the world ' s reserve currency . China be not an option because of capital control , so there be no other viable reserve currency for country to deposit their reserve in . as a former hedge fund manager , I spend year invest professionally in financial market , and I can assure the House that investor will not be discourage from invest in safe and attractive G7 currency for two simple reason : fear and greed . today , the west spend $ 105 billion annually on Ukraine ' s defence , include $ 45 billion from the US . the $ 300 billion in russian asset could fund the lot for three year , or the US portion for six year if Trump withdraw his support . many think that Russia ' s resource be inexhaustible , yet accord to the Royal United Services Institute , Russia be go to run out of artillery ammunition and armoured vehicle next year . it have already suffer 700 , 000 casualty , so Russia ' s capacity to wage war will fall dramatically in one year ' s time , but only if we can keep Ukraine in the fight . if Ukraine can end this war on term that demonstrate that it be victorious , the consequence for our security will be profound . the threat from Russia will be greatly diminish , China will think twice about challenge a liberal world order , and the narrative of the decline of the free world and the rise of dictatorship will be decisively set back . imagine what the free world could then achieve in the 21st century . as such , I urge the Government to seize that $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset to keep Ukraine in the fight , and I salute the ukrainian soldier who be lay down their life , not only for their country ' s freedom but for our freedom too . I thank the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for secure this debate . I speak today as the constituency Member of Parliament for many of the asset we be discuss . it be easy to throw around the many billion of Russian - own wealth across the country ; for that reason , when reference the luxurious wealth of Putin ' s crony , all of my calculation today be go to be in the unit of Storm Shadow missile , each of which cost £ 800 , 000 . these be the weapon of war that we talk about when we discuss fund the conflict in Ukraine . in total , 28 , 375 storm Shadows ' worth of russian wealth be sanction , with profit from that wealth use to repay the extraordinary revenue acceleration fund the UK ' s support of Ukraine . to put that in perspective , the UK ' s total stock of storm Shadows be estimate in 2023 to sit between 700 and 1 , 000 . in Westminster alone , accord to research by Transparency International , 537 storm Shadows ' worth of property be own by Russians accuse of corruption or with link to the Kremlin , property that stretch from Belgravia to St James ' s and St John ' s Wood . indeed , the most valuable home in the UK , Hanover Lodge , be sell last year for 141 storm Shadows by Andrey Goncharenko , a former Gazprom executive with tie to the Kremlin . a great deal of that property be own by or connect to sanction individual , include former Deputy Prime Ministers Igor Shuvalov and Vladimir Potanin . the existence of this property be not just an economic issue ; its impact also reach into the very heart of our community . our building and neighbourhood be weaken when they be use for profit rather than purpose . a strong community be one in which neighbour can be the one who look after your kid when you have a job interview . it be those community that be undermine when we let tower of vacant investment property propagate and turn a blind eye to foreign wealth empty out british home . most recently , these community have open their arm to hundred of thousand of Ukrainians flee from Putin ' s illegal invasion . I be the constituency Member for a number of those refugee , and it be think of they that give the overwhelming majority of we in this House the resolve to use every tool at our disposal . that bring we to today ' s topic : the seizure of sanctioned asset . as we hear early , the significance of this step and the precedent it would set should not escape we as legislator . the first ever permanent seizure of frozen asset occur only last year , when the National Crime Agency confiscate the asset of Petr Aven for suspect evasion of sanction . to set out an intentional policy of seize those asset would be a bold step , and one that would doubtless lead to legal challenge . however , it must be worth we consider every option available for sanctioned asset , particularly when there be a clear argument that it would be justify to use they in support the ukrainian people . Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine be in complete contravention of international law and violate the sovereignty and self - determination of the ukrainian people . furthermore , as have be confirm by the UN ' s independent international commission of inquiry on Ukraine , it have enable a string of other war crime , include indiscriminate attack , violation of personal integrity , include execution , torture and ill treatment , and sexual and gender - base violence . as be make clear during the application of the original sanction , the sanctioned individual be play a direct part in this war . they range from propagandist spread disinformation about the conflict to garner public support , domestically and across the globe , to industrialist manufacture the chemical use in russian weapon , and military and security personnel directly contribute to the invasion . when the war in Ukraine be over , question will remain about what we do with the 28 , 000 storm Shadows of sanction wealth belong to those who fund , champion , and even fight in Putin ' s illegal invasion . we must take this opportunity to consider what sort of country we want to be when it come to that dirty money , and to ensure that we do not let our economy be complicit in the force that fund evil across the world . debate such as this , about the horror now happen in Ukraine , be always very important and very difficult to speak in . I very much appreciate listen to some of the harrowing story , to remind myself just what the Ukrainians be experience , but also why all of we must push back Putin ' s war machine . I be most proud of the leadership that our country have show over the past few year in the international response to support the Ukrainians to stand up against Putin . a key part of that be bring together the international community to multilaterally , not unilaterally , support the Ukrainians in their plight . early in this conflict we see the weaponisation of oil and gas price . we see , and continue to see , hybrid warfare , which have be go on for some time . I very much support , at every stage , the full - fat embargo of russian oil and gas . indeed , this House strongly support the sanction , which have be an important part of our support for the Ukrainians . as tempting as this motion be — and it be very tempting when we read it — I must say that , like member on both side of the House , I be cautious and have some concern and reservation about it . it be important to consider the impact on the international financial order and the rule of law . what differentiate we from Putin and the russian state be that we do consider and debate this — we have this place where we can consider the rule - base order . Putin think that make we weak , but he be wrong ; it make we strong , and it be what we stand for and what we believe in . if we be to look at seize asset , there be two important consideration . first , this focus on state asset , as oppose to those of individual and company , as there be currently no judicial process for individual and company who have have their asset frozen , and to go ahead with seize those asset be a much big step . member have mention individual and company as well as the state , but the focus have to be specifically on russian state asset , for which the legal framework be strong . secondly , as with how we lead from the beginning of the conflict , there have to be a multilateral approach . this have to be link through the G7 and our partner in Europe . it have to be do together in unison , and we have a history of do that . I say to the Minister that I be very proud of how we have do that . if we be to do this , we must do it multilaterally . we also need to look at these asset be use for military use , as oppose to just general economic support . my understanding be that the interest money that have now be free up have be restrict from use for military intervention , and this also need to be consider as part of the process . finally , we also need to ensure that our current sanction be effective . just before Christmas I mention my concern about the oil and gas embargo , particularly the idea that crude oil derivative could be find their way into the UK economy despite the embargo . I be grateful to the Minister for respond to some of my specific question on that , but I hope he will look carefully at the effectiveness of the proof of origin under the rule of origin , particularly when it come to petrochemical derivative such as plastic and other product that can be manufacture through the use of russian oil and gas . we must ensure that , in our economy , our oil and gas embargo of Russia be as effective as possible before we even start look at the next measure to take . I , too , thank the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for secure this important debate . this issue matter deeply to my constituent . Kensington and bayswater be home to a thriving ukrainian community and be a hub for ukrainian institution , from the embassy and the consulate to the social club and the school . but in Kensington , regrettably , we be also at the epicentre of Britain ' s historical addiction to corrupt , kleptocrat wealth — we be in close competition with my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) in that regard . in the wake of Putin ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 , I co - found the Kensington Against dirty Money campaign , alongside local community campaigner , to expose the vast sum of illicit capital hide in luxury property in our community . as have be say , that dirty money undermine democracy both at home and abroad , and for too long kleptocrat have be able to sidestep the rule and hoard illicit wealth through opaque corporate structure . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) so much for secure this debate . do the hon . Member agree that if the west fail to act decisively in seize russian asset , that simply signal to authoritarian regime worldwide that aggression and the violation of international law come with little consequence , which will destabilise the global order and increase the likelihood of future conflict ? the hon . member be absolutely right . there be thing the UK can do to be the trailblazer and there be thing we need to do in partnership with our international partner , and shortly I will move on to how I think we can do more on the asset specifically . I also want to take the opportunity to welcome the personal and relentless campaign by the Foreign Secretary and the Minister in relation to sanction , include the recent action on the shadow fleet . however , in order for those measure to be fully effective , we must ensure that sanction can not be evade , and there be still loophole that need to be close . my hon . friend the Minister will know that I have be follow closely the progress of our overseas territory and Crown dependency in finally follow the will of Parliament by establish public register of company ownership , allow we to follow the money and detect where sanction evasion may be take place , for example in place such as the British Virgin Islands . it also mean that we need to consider incorporate trust - own property into our register of overseas entity , ensure that trust can not be use to conceal property that could be subject to sanction . as we have say , our resident deserve well than live in these community hollow out by wealth and build on corruption , where my constituent be suffer at the sharp end of London ' s housing crisis . in the next - door constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) there be the case of Chelsea football club . over two year ago , Roman Abramovich be force to sell the club , with approximately £ 2 . 5 billion pledge to humanitarian programme for victim of the war , yet not a single penny of that money have be spend . those Chelsea fund amount to five time the UK ' s total humanitarian assistance to Ukraine since 2022 , and they remain stuck in an escrow account . that be a travesty , give that release those fund would not cost the british taxpayer a penny . it would save countless life , at a time when 15 million people require urgent assistance in eastern Ukraine alone and humanitarian agency face a shortfall of £ 1 . 3 billion . I welcome the UK ' s leadership in the G7 on secure the additional $ 50 billion of support to Ukraine use the profit from the holding of immobilised russian sovereign asset , with over £ 2 billion come from the UK ' s share . we have lead on sanction , we have lead on freeze asset and we have lead on mobilise the interest on asset , and now I believe it be time for the UK to lead a coalition of willing nation to take decisive action to seize those sovereign asset in full . I invite the hon . member to recognise that there be an international precedent for the seizure of russian asset . back in 1990 , follow the iraqi invasion of Kuwait , the US , the UK and France transfer iraqi asset to Kuwait to directly correspond with reparation to Kuwait . do he agree that should be the case with russian asset ? I agree . the moral and legal rationale for seize these asset be clear . the total cost of Russia ' s destruction of Ukraine have already far exceed the total frozen state asset . it be inconceivable that Russia will ever pay for the irreparable harm it have cause Ukraine . seize these asset would not only increase Ukraine ' s capacity to resist further destruction but help its leader rebuild the country . it would be a downpayment on the reparation Russia will almost certainly be legally liable for , and will make it face the full consequence of its action now . Britain ' s leadership on Ukraine — from military support to Homes for Ukraine to sanction — have be exemplary and cross - party , but there be always more to do , so I ask the Minister to address my point about make our sanction more effective by tackle evasion , close the loophole in our property register , release the Chelsea fund , and mobilise the international coalition to seize russian state asset , so that we can support our friend on the frontline in Ukraine right now . that bring we to the Front - Bench contributor , start with James MacCleary . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for secure this valuable and important debate . Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine be not just an assault on one nation . it be a direct challenge to the value that unite Europe : democracy , sovereignty , and the rule of law . Europe must respond with strength and unity , and the UK have a unique role to play in lead the charge . Russia ' s malign influence extend far beyond Ukraine . from interference in democratic election across Europe to spread disinformation , the Kremlin have show its commitment to undermine the democratic value that bind our continent . this be not just Ukraine ' s fight ; it be a fight for the integrity of all our democracy . our defence sector be among the large in Europe , and our international influence remain significant . when I meet european colleague , one message be clear : they want the UK to lead . this be a moment for the UK to step up and demonstrate the leadership that have long define our place in Europe — even though we be , for now , outside the European Union . seize frozen russian asset and repurpose they be one of the most effective way to support Ukraine . these fund be not just financial resource ; they be symbol of aggression that must become instrument of justice . Putin ' s grasp on power depend on corruption and control ; by seize and repurpose these asset , we can weaken his grip . our ally have show the way . Canada amend its Special Economic Measures Act to allow the seizure of russian asset for grave breach of international peace , and the United States pass the REPO — rebuild Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians — Act to transfer russian sovereign asset directly to Ukraine . these step provide clear and workable model for the UK and Europe to adopt . I agree on the legal precedent , and it would be interesting to hear the Minister comment on that . we have hear about the Iraq precedent ; the legal precedent be there . do the hon . Gentleman agree that , crucially , Russia have step outside the international norm , and that to protect the international rule - base system , we must show that there be consequence ? it be imperative that we take action to show that matter . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . it be as if I have give he a copy of my speech ; I be about to come on to that . stop the russian assault on Ukraine be part of a wide struggle for the future of democracy and liberty , in Europe and around the world . russian ruler Vladimir Putin have make this war an existential one , stake the future of his regime on it . we must be in no doubt that current and wannabe dictator be watch closely to see how european power respond to Russia ' s challenge . any wavering in our support for Ukraine could easily be interpret as a green light to other to launch grab for coveted territory . in short , the basis of the liberal world order be at stake , and Britain have a duty to protect that order , which we do so much to create . with the loom return of Donald Trump to the White House , the stake for Europe could not be high . the future of US support for Ukraine be uncertain , and Europe must be prepared to step up . this be a wake - up call for the UK ; we must lead within Europe and ensure that brave Ukrainians receive the robust support that they need from we . beyond repurpose russian asset , we must also address the systemic failure that have allow dirty money to flood into our economy . the UK have long be a destination of choice for russian wealth , much of it funnel through loophole in economic crime legislation . it be time to properly resource the National Crime Agency , close these loophole , and make it clear that kleptocrat be no long welcome here . member who , like I , be student of russian and east european history will be familiar with the word Holodomor . there have be lot of reference to history and the lesson that we should take from it . for those who be not familiar with the word , we would simply call it the ukrainian famine . in 1932 and 1933 , uncounted million of Ukrainians starve to death as a direct result of policy prosecute by another dictator in the Kremlin , Joseph Stalin . I genuinely hope that those in this Chamber in the future will not look back on we and say that we could have do more to stop another great crime against the ukrainian people . the Liberal Democrats have be clear that this be about more than military aid ; it be about hold Russia accountable and strengthen Ukraine ' s defence . Ukraine ' s fight be our fight ; by take action now , the UK can reaffirm that aggression will never be reward , that Europe will always stand firm in defence of freedom , and that Britain remain at the heart of the continent ' s security and value . I call shadow Minister Gareth Davies . I congratulate the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on secure this debate and give an incredibly move speech , in which he tell the story of Sasha — and , of course , 19 , 000 other child . what be happen in Ukraine be absolutely heartbreaking , and he be right to raise those concern in the House today . last week , many people start 2025 , just as we start every new year , with hope , optimism and determination that this year will be well than the last . it be therefore right that our first debate this year be about our united resolve to ensure that Ukraine can continue to oppose russian aggression , and about way that we in this country can continue to support our friend and ally in this task . we have hear a number of excellent speech from across the House , which have be both inform and incredibly move . for 1 , 047 day now , ukrainian man , woman and child have be suffer the consequence of the most recent stage of a war that they do not ask for and do not start , and that continue to claim the life of so many of their friend , family and fellow countryman . we conservative Members be proud of our record of support for the people of Ukraine . in government , we provide over £ 12 billion in military , humanitarian and economic support . because of this , the United Kingdom have rightly take its place as a global leader in defend Ukraine . the UK be a first mover in provide vital aid , from helmet and body armour to , yes , Storm Shadow missile and Challenger 2 battle tank . we create safe route for those flee the conflict , through the ukrainian family scheme and the Homes for Ukraine scheme , in which many member participate . we establish Operation Interflex , which have train over 50 , 000 ukrainian recruit on british soil since the illegal invasion in 2022 , and we impose the large and most severe set of sanction Russia have ever see , with 2 , 000 individual , country and group sanction . this ensure that we be target not just the sector of strategic significance to the russian Government , and that those in and around the Kremlin be leave with nowhere to hide , no matter where they be base . just as President Putin have so far sacrifice the life of hundred of thousand of his countryman on the altar of his personal imperial ambition , he seem determined to destroy the future prosperity of the russian people . as my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) say , Putin must be make to pay for his action , and a number of other member also make that clear . Ukraine must continue to be support in its fight against Putin ' s war machine , so we welcome the fact that this Government be continue much of the vital work that we start to strengthen the ukrainian response . however , british support for Ukraine be underpin by our willingness , and that of our NATO ally , to also invest in our own defence . that be why I hope that the Government will keep to their pre - election pledge of increase defence spending in this country to 2 . 5 % of gdp . as I have say before , I be pleased that there be such clear consensus on support for Ukraine in this House . on military support , humanitarian aid and indeed sanction , where the Government take responsible and sensible further step , the official Opposition will of course support they . the last Conservative Government be one of the most vocal proponent of repurpose frozen russian asset , and we drive our G7 and european ally to coalesce around the most ambitious solution . the announcement by the Treasury on 22 October that the UK would contribute £ 2 . 26 billion to the G7 ' s extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine scheme represent progress on that journey , and we very much welcome that , but we should never stop look for innovative way to legally mobilise frozen sovereign asset . it would therefore be good to hear from the Minister what far step the Government be explore . give that the House be debate frozen russian asset , it would be helpful for it to be provide with the most up - to - date information . first , can the Minister update the House on the total value today of russian asset freeze by the G7 and of the total asset freeze by UK jurisdiction ? secondly , can he give some indication of the allocation of frozen asset by type ? there have be some discussion of that today , but it would be helpful if the Government give that breakdown to colleague . today ' s debate be focus on the seizure of frozen russian asset to assist Ukraine . the Minister will be well aware — this have be discuss at length today — of the various legal consideration , internationally and domestically , relate to seizure . give recent comment by the EU ' s chief diplomat , I look forward to the Minister clarify exactly what the Government ' s position be . will he update the House on the Government ' s late discussion — many have call for this today — with our G7 partner and other ally on seizure ? we should never allow ourselves to forget what this debate be ultimately all about . many of we be return to this place after a restful and perhaps indulgent Christmas break , but I remind the House that the people of Ukraine face a very different Christmas . nothing illustrate that well than the fact that on Christmas day , as Ukrainians gather together at St Michael ' s cathedral in Kyiv , pray for peace and victory in 2025 , their prayer be cruelly interrupt by the pierce sound of air raid siren . be in no doubt that the fight continue , not just for those on the frontline , but for all those who want their country to be free again . I can hear that the shadow Minister be come to a conclusion . he be a former investment banker , so I be curious to know his Majesty ' s opposition ' s position on the seizure of frozen russian asset . I welcome the intervention . our position in government and in opposition have be that we should do whatever it take to hold Russia to account and to ensure that Russia pay , and we support Ukraine . I have set out a number of way , financial and other , in which we do that in government . whether in government or in opposition , we clearly have concern about legal obstacle , which may or may not exist , and it be right that we debate that today , as well as the impact on market , sentiment and investor confidence . the issue be not as simple as some perhaps suggest . there be a number of factor , but we should leave the option open and continue to explore all option when it come to support Ukraine , and hold Russia to account and ensure that it pay . rise — I will take one more intervention . the key point be the one make by my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) about the distinction between private asset — even such tainted one as be hold by oligarch — and state asset . the mover of this motion , the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) , will correct I if I be wrong , but the $ 300 billion - worth of asset refer to in the motion be state asset . in a publication by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in May last year , no few than 11 professor and other legal expert be unanimous in say that when it come to state asset , there be no legal obstacle for seizure by a third - party state , such as ourselves . I welcome the intervention by my right hon . friend , who be extremely diligent in his assessment of such matter . I will allow the Minister , who be actually in the Government , to provide their legal assessment of what may or may not be possible . I have set out our concern , which we be happy to continue to debate and discuss , as I have say , but it be right that throughout the House we continue in our support for Ukraine . it be right that we continue to discuss all the way we can support the Ukrainians . if there be a way , we should look at it . I thank the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) and other colleague across the House for table this important debate . he make a powerful speech , start out with the horrific story of Sasha . it make I think not only of similar story I have hear directly , but of the work do in community throughout the UK in maintain ukrainian culture and heritage — the very culture , heritage and language that Putin be try to erase from the life of those child . I visit the centre in my constituency in Cardiff just a few week before Christmas . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution and their challenge . they have make some important point and they can be assure that I have listen to they all carefully . it be important to emphasise that we have again see absolute unity in this House in our desire to support Ukraine in its fight and that Russia must pay . those be the two key message come out of the debate for I . as all of we in the Chamber know well , Russia ' s assault on Ukraine be an unprovoked , premeditated and barbaric attack against a sovereign democratic state . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) say , the Christmas day attack reinforce the shocking and barbaric nature of what Russia be do . the UK and our international partner stand united . we can not let aggressor like Putin succeed . I will attempt to respond to many of the point that have be make , which have all be important , but I will start by underline the magnitude of the UK ' s response to Putin ' s invasion . we have sanction more than 2 , 100 individual and entity . we have freeze more than £ 22 billion - worth of private asset under the Russia sanction regime . the shadow Minister ask for some allocation by type , and I will certainly try to write to he with further detail on that . alongside G7 partner , we have immobilise russian state asset in our jurisdiction , too . we have lead international shipping sanction that have disrupt the russian shadow fleet , leave oil tanker idle across the globe unable to continue their trade . we have ramp up action since July to include a further 89 tanker , bar they from our port and deny they access to maritime service . we have also sanction nine vessel involve in the shipping of liquefy natural gas from Russia , which have contribute to Russia ' s large producer suspending production . all that be alongside measure target firm supply Russia ' s military industrial complex , include chinese company send component for drone . we have sanction cyber - criminal and mercenary seek to destabilise african country , not to mention russian troop for the appalling use of chemical weapon on the battlefield . these carefully construct and wide - range package be have a significant impact on Putin ' s ability to finance his war , erode russian oil revenue and support Ukraine on the battlefield . there be a lot of talk about war economic from my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , but the fact be that Russia be pay many time more for component that be often of poor quality and in much low quantity than it need . by disrupt the russian oil industry , we be put further pressure on the Kremlin . it have all contribute to a russian economy that be in trouble , with inflation at close to 10 % , interest rate at 21 % and the rouble in decline . Putin have tell his population not to panic , but disagreement between official and industrialist be increasingly vocal , and that should serve as a reminder not only to Putin but to the wide world that there be a high price to pay for assault the democracy , sovereignty and territorial integrity of another nation . many question have rightly be ask about enforcement . since come into office I have be clear , as have the Foreign Secretary , that we must have the necessary power and tool to implement and enforce our sanction regime effectively . strengthen the system be a top priority for this Government and , with the support of ministerial colleague , I have launch a cross - Government review to examine how we can make it easy for business to comply with sanction , but also bring the full force of the law to bear on those who do not . we be work across Government Departments on that . we have introduce new power for the Office of Trade Sanctions Implementation and for the Department for Transport . in September last year , the Financial Conduct Authority fine starle bank almost £ 29 million in relation to its financial sanction control and screening . last month , the National Crime Agency disrupt multibillion - dollar russian money launder network with link to drug , ransomware and espionage , result in 84 arrest . it also seize more than £ 20 million in cash and cryptocurrency . the Foreign Secretary , who be rightly reference in the debate , have launch an important campaign on tackle illicit finance and kleptocracy , include by deal with those who enable they . we have make it clear that we will not hesitate to do what be necessary to clamp down on those who seek to evade our sanction . we want to ensure that Ukraine emerge from the war with a modernised and inclusive economy that be resilient to russian threat . that be as important as provide it with the crucial military support that it need . we will therefore continue to work across a range of donor platform to leverage private investment such as those at the Ukraine recovery conference with the work of UK Export Finance and British International Investment . we have commit £ 12 . 8 billion in military , humanitarian and economic support to Ukraine . as be rightly reference , we have often be the first mover when it have come to vital lethal assistance , whether in respect of storm Shadow missile , Challenger 2 tank or , of course , the nlaw at the start of the war . we have also recommit to £ 3 billion a year for as long as it take and sign a long - term bilateral security co - operation agreement — we be the first of 25 country to do so . as be rightly reference , the Chancellor have far announce that we will provide £ 2 . 26 billion of additional support to Ukraine as part of the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine scheme . I thank hon . member across the House for ensure the speedy passage of the legislation , which pass its Third reading unanimously , to put that in place . crucially , those fund will be repay not by Ukraine but by the extraordinary profit make on sanctioned russian state asset hold in the European Union . the fundamental question about what more we can do to use russian asset for the benefit of Ukraine be at the heart of the debate . the Government and our G7 partner have repeatedly affirm our position . Russia ' s obligation under international law be clear : it must pay for the damage it have cause to Ukraine . the ERA loan and our contribution will ensure that Ukraine can receive the financial support that it need now — it be right to focus on get that out the door , because we urgently need to support Ukraine now — with the profit generate on sanctioned russian sovereign asset provide that . I reassure colleague throughout the House who have rightly ask a lot of search and challenging question that we be commit to consider all possible lawful avenue by which Russia can be make to meet its obligation to pay for the damage it be cause to Ukraine . we continue to work with ally to that end . I confirm that I speak to Foreign Ministers from across Europe on that and other crucial aspect of our support for Ukraine just before the House rise in December . we will continue to update Parliament on the progress of that work . however , I hope hon . member will understand that it would not be appropriate to provide a running commentary on discussion , as ally have commit to keep those private , include in respect of the specific sum of russian sovereign asset that be currently frozen . I absolutely accept what the Minister say . do he appreciate that with the possibility of President Trump withdraw some , if not all , american aid to Ukraine , the substitution of a substantial volume of financial support will become essential ? that be one reason behind our concern about the asset possibly be seize . we be all concerned to get Ukraine the support that it need , and as quickly as possible . it be wrong to speculate on what the future Administration might choose to do . let we remember that the package come through from the United States with strong bipartisan support , and much of the support to Ukraine even before the 2022 invasion come from the first Trump Administration . let we be clear that there be support there and that there be unity across the Atlantic on support for Ukraine . President Trump have already say that he will continue with the payment and support . may I ask a simple question ? we know from the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill that recently pass through the House that use the profit of asset will help to bring up to $ 50 billion of support to Ukraine . a previous legal commitment have be break , which could not have be do before without prior legislation ; asset have never be separate from profit . the Minister do not have to answer the question now , but will he go back to the Foreign Office with a reminder that the asset be now leave available for seizure ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment and hope that he will write I the letter that he promise in the debate . I will read it with great interest . he be extremely well informed on these matter and he know that I have take a keen interest in they over some time . as I say , we will consider all lawful measure that we can possibly take to ensure that Ukraine get the support it need . I will listen closely to his advice and , indeed , that of many other . he would not expect I to comment on any legal advice or technical advice under consideration . I be conscious of the time and the need to move to the next debate , but I genuinely want to thank all right hon . and hon . member . hugely important point be make . it be clear that there be unity in the House that we all want to get Ukraine the support that it need , and to get that there as quickly as possible . I be convinced that we be do everything we can on both side of the equation — choke off Russia ' s ability to fund its war machine on the war economic side , which be mention , as well as get Ukraine the support that it need . we will continue to do that . our support be ironclad , and we have make that clear to President Zelensky . I be with Foreign Minister Sybiha a number of time before Christmas , and he be absolutely clear that the UK ' s support be critical and that it must continue . we be glad to give he confirmation of our resolute support . I call Mike Martin to wind up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the light of my overrunning speech early , I will not take up the full two minute allocate to I , so I can give you back some time in a congested parliamentary timetable . I will focus on two thing . one be unity . we have demonstrate that unity tonight throughout the House . this be not about party politic : this be about the moral and strategic interest of our country and our ally . the other point be about leadership . we have lead throughout on this conflict , and this will be the next stage of that leadership . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the horror of Russia ' s renew illegal invasion of Ukraine ; far recognise the necessity of a ukrainian victory over Russia ; agree that the United Kingdom must do all it can to support Ukraine in its fight against russian aggression ; acknowledge that there be approximately $ 300 billion of russian asset freeze in the G7 and EU ; and call on the Government to investigate way that these frozen asset could be legally seize and use to fund the war effort in Ukraine , and to report back to the House with its finding . NHS Backlog I beg to move , that this House have consider backlog in the NHS . happy new year to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . I apply for it because many member be interested in have the chance to discuss the problem and consult constructively on the potential solution for the NHS across the country . it have end up be a particularly timely debate give the Secretary of State ' s statement this afternoon , which we broadly welcome . the Conservatives have push the NHS to break point , leave a legacy that include the big waiting list in history and a healthcare system on the brink of collapse . we have reach a crisis point of backlog in the NHS system . they affect not only those who be in dire need of medical care , but the wonderful staff who work tirelessly in hospital , GP surgery , dental surgery , pharmacy , social care provider , hospice and so on . the situation in Shropshire right now demonstrate the scale of the crisis . the pressure be extreme on every aspect of healthcare and reflect the fact that in many case rural area be bear the brunt of a national problem . shropshire ' s NHS have declare a critical incident — one of many across the country , I know — as staff battle to cope with the huge winter spike of virus . that mean that people can not visit their love one on a regular basis , and be require to wear a mask when they go into the hospital . that be just one example of how the system be fail to cope with the pressure . understandably , talk about NHS backlog centre on the 7 . 5 million case wait for treatment . but backlog also apply to the overflowing A & E waiting room and to the long line of ambulance queue outside . they apply to the elderly people who have fall and wait many hour for an ambulance . they apply to possible heart attack and stroke patient be tell to make their own way to hospital by West Midlands ambulance service at certain time this year . outside Shrewsbury and Telford hospital last Sunday — the late day we have datum for — ambulance wait an average of three hour and 48 minute to hand over a patient . across England on the same day , 2 , 620 patient have to spend more than an hour stick in an ambulance wait for space to become available at A & E . in my constituency , our hospital face almost 700 sewage leak , which have an impact on its ability to provide service . that be another pressure . do my hon . friend agree that the soon the Government advise on what investment they will make to enhance service for our hospital across the UK , the well ? I have not put the crumble estate into my speech , but my hon . friend make a very valid point , because people can not work efficiently when they be deal with terrible hygiene and safety issue around they every single day . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward this debate , and on be so consistent and assiduous on this issue . I understand that she will come on to the Lib Dem manifesto , which a lot of we in this Chamber , whether Lib Dem or not , can agree with . in Northern Ireland we have the health and social care board , which have be work on various strategy to reduce the backlog , but the scale be truly significant . do the hon . Lady agree that , collectively , England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland should look at all the recommendation and bring they together so that this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can benefit collectively ? the hon . Gentleman always make an excellent contribution to our debate . he be right that we should look at good practice in Northern Ireland and the devolved nation , as well as in England , to get the right solution for the problem that we face . I hope colleague will forgive I as will not take any more intervention because we be tight on time and a lot of people want to speak . we have reach a point where patient suffer heart attack be be advise to find their own way to hospital . how can that be acceptable ? once patient get into A & E , they be confront with the brutal reality of the backlog . the reality mean that only half of patient arrive at A & E in Shropshire be see within four hour in November . the statistic be shocking , but individual people with serious problem suffer as a result — people such as my constituent with a pericardial effusion , who be deem fit to sit and leave in a chair for more than 24 hour before finally be take on blue light to receive the care she need . staff in this situation be so overwork that the standard of care that they give be below what they would like to provide . the patient ' s dignity be compromise , and staff be be drive from the service because they be unable to provide the care that they desperately want to . until the Government put a plan in place to solve the workforce crisis , there be a risk that these scene will continue to happen . in my local hospital trust alone , a total of 854 , 839 hour of nursing shift go unfilled in the 12 month to October . Liberal Democrats be call for a qualified clinician in every A & E waiting room to ensure that anyone whose condition be deteriorate be treat more urgently . we be also call on the Government to publish accessible localise report of ambulance response time so that the delay that blight place such as North Shropshire and other rural area can finally be address . a key reason for the emergency backlog be that every day , around 12 , 000 hospital bed be fill with patient who could leave if they have a care package in place . that be the equivalent of around 26 hospital be out of action every day . that be why Liberal Democrats have be bang the drum for social care . without capacity in the care system , bed will remain block , A & Es will stay clogged and ambulance will continue queue outside hospital . I be pleased that the Government have finally listen to our call for cross - party talk to fix a break care system , and I look forward to constructively engage with they throughout that process , but we can not afford to wait three more year for this plan to be enact . I hope that the Government will reconsider their timescale and get the review do as soon as possible , so that the care sector can see the long - term cross - party commitment to reform that it so drastically need . part of solve this issue be support preventive measure , which stop people need secondary care in the first place . I recently visit the North Shropshire charity Energize and see the work of its Elevate programme , which work to improve fitness , balance and co - ordination in elderly and frail patient . it have have some amazing achievement : I meet a gentleman suffer from Parkinson ' s who have be fall five time a week before he start his programme , and who be now fall only once a week . of course , it would be great if he do not fall at all , but I be sure everybody would agree that that be a huge improvement . it be estimate that for every £ 1 invest in that programme , £ 26 be save , so it be an area where we can really make a difference to the crisis in the NHS . few backlog have as much impact as those in cancer diagnosis and care . nationally , the target of 85 % of patient receive treatment within 62 day have be miss every month since December 2015 . at my local hospital trust , few than two third of patient begin treatment within the 62 - day target . improve this situation be integral to increase survival rate . it be also key to restore patient faith in the NHS , stop case like that of my constituent , whose family feel completely fail by the NHS after he wait almost a year for treatment after first present with bowel cancer symptom . could the Minister clarify whether the Government remain committed to meet the cancer waiting time target this Parliament , as promise in their manifesto , and whether those target will be include in their new national cancer strategy ? to achieve that improvement , we need to address key workforce issue , notably in radiology , where there be a 31 % shortfall of consultant across the country . again , in rural place such as Shropshire , it be recruitment and retention issue that have cause the sharp problem . throughout 2024 , it become normal in Shropshire to wait month for cancer test and scan result , with patient in my constituency only receive their result after their next scan be due to have happen . I be pleased to report that under new management , this backlog be now in the process of be clear . however , that be happen due to overseas outsourcing , which be not a sustainable long - term solution for this country . we need to retain , recruit , and retrain more radiologist and ensure that enough modern equipment be in place across the country so that no one have to wait too long or travel too far to get the scan that they need . will the Minister address whether that will also be part of the national cancer strategy ? we can not talk about backlog without talk about mental health . accord to the Darzi review , 1 million people be wait for mental health service by last April , over 340 , 000 of whom be child — child whom we as a nation need to protect , because they be our future . wait time for child and adolescent mental health service be shocking in every constituency in the country ; from ADHD diagnose to anxiety , depression and eat disorder , far too many people be not get the urgent support that they need . a headteacher of a school in north Shropshire tell I that in recent year , nine student at his school have lose a parent to suicide , yet there be no community mental health service in the town . along with the Government , liberal Democrats would introduce a mental health professional in every school . however , we be also call on the Government to improve early access to mental health service , and to cut mental health wait by establish mental health hub for young people in every community and introduce regular mental health check - up at key point in people ' s life when they be access the NHS , so that we can pick up those problem and intervene early . meanwhile , GP surgery be also struggle to handle the grow pressure be exert on they . More than a million patient who try to contact a GP last year could not get through . if patient can not access primary care , they seek help elsewhere , or they do not seek help at all ; in both case , this create further problem down the line . in Shropshire , we have lose 14 . 3 % of fully qualified GPs in the past eight year . a young constituent of mine have to wait seven week just for a telephone consultation — a wait that would have be even long if they have want an in - person meeting . liberal Democrats would give everyone the right to see a gp within seven day , or within 24 hour if it be urgent , use 8 , 000 more gps . if we can improve primary care , we can reduce backlog across the health and care system . yet the Government have pledge to increase national insurance charge that could cost GP surgery the equivalent of 2 million appointment a year . this hike will also hammer pharmacy , with more than a third of pharmacy owner now worry that their business may not survive the winter . if pharmacy close , backlog will simply increase elsewhere . if we can keep they open and improve service such as Pharmacy First , we can reduce pressure across the system . we would like the Government to commit to remove the increase in employer national insurance contribution to support these crucial community service , so that few people end up in hospital and more people be treat in the community , where they will get well and quick treatment . meanwhile , in dentistry , where practice will also be hit by the national insurance rise , there be not so much a backlog of care as an absence of care . some 6 million adult in the UK be not register with an NHS dentist and , in place like Shropshire , it be become almost impossible to find one , with increase number of practice hand back contract that have become unsustainable . one of my constituent have be try to register with an NHS dentist for five year , while another pull out his own tooth with a pair of plier . the Labour Government must show that they understand the problem well than the Conservative Government , whose solution be to introduce golden hello payment . they have be in place in Shropshire for year and they have not achieve the desire outcome . with that in mind , will the Minister outline the Government ' s plan in relation to the new patient premium and offer assurance to dentist that any change will be communicate , so that practice can plan and prepare to well serve their patient ? nhs contract need to be reform so that we can end the use of the term " dental desert " , end DIY dentistry and guarantee access to people who be in pain . in conclusion , the liberal Democrats believe that people should be able to take control of their own life and their own health . that mean everyone should be able to access the care they need , where and when they need it . we welcome much of today ' s announcement on elective care , and we welcome today ' s announcement on social care , but we be concerned that the decision to hike employer NICs could worsen the crisis in the NHS . hit GPs , hospice , dentist and social care provider with high taxis make no sense . the Treasury be give to the NHS with one hand , but take away with the other . we also want much fast action on social care . as I say , I look forward to engage constructively with the Minister to come up with the consensus we need , but we can not afford to wait until 2028 for improvement to be make . the Conservatives ' legacy on the NHS be that it be on its knee . the Liberal Democrats understand that there be no magic quick fix to change that , but to give people the care they need and deserve we must look at the measure need for the whole service , give equal priority to both heart attack and hip replacement . Nuneaton , too , have record high level of people on NHS waiting list — over 17 , 000 . staff tell I that they be burn out and demoralise . patient be suffer as a result : long wait on trolley in corridor , lengthy wait in ambulance , and stagnation at GP surgery where they simply can not get the appointment they need . since 2021 , the hospital have see 1 , 500 staff absence due to mental health issue , with many leave the profession . leader at our George Eliot hospital really value their staff , but they be struggle to cope with ever - increase demand and to remain resilient with sudden increase in demand , such as flu outbreak over Christmas , lead to yearly chaos that cost life , long wait time for patient , cancel appointment , and a decline in the quality of care . nationally , we have few hospital bed and scanner per capita than most other european country . our building be crumble , and our computer system be outdate . our hard - work NHS staff deserve well . they deserve a Government who will respect and value they and invest in they . the failure of the past carry a considerable human cost , but they also impact on family finance and have wide economic impact on our community . one particular case , a nurse from Arbury in Nuneaton who work for our brilliant George Eliot hospital , clearly demonstrate the damage that can be do . they be in their mid - 40 , fit , active , work and economically stable when they be diagnose with a spinal condition that compress the nerve in their leg , cause pain . a simple procedure could solve it very quickly and easily with the right referral , but they have to wait 12 month for a referral just to speak over the phone to the neurosurgeon . the doctor recommend surgery , but the patient have be leave in limbo , unable to get a follow - up appointment or any information about when surgery will actually take place . this be a simple procedure for a condition that have devastate her life over a number of year . live in constant pain , she can no long stand for more than five minute and have be force to withdraw from her vital role in the NHS — another vacancy , another specialist unit short - staffed . that be just one example from the 17 , 000 among my constituent , many of whom do not make it to the end of those waiting list . I have stand by the grave of people in my constituency who have be wait for treatment that could have stop they end up there . there be people whose life be on hold and family who be suffer grief . there be wait and more suffering . it be a crisis of political failure , a crisis of underfunding and a crisis of neglect . I fully support the Government ' s action to address it . rise — Order . I be now impose an immediate four - minute time limit , to try to get everyone in . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for secure this important and timely debate . I must begin by declare my interest : I be a non - practise NHS consultant psychiatrist and my wife be an NHS doctor . Christmas and the festive period be always a tax time for the NHS , especially for those work on call , as indeed it be for all those in the various emergency service and those outside the public sector who be on call . it be important to pay tribute to they for all their hard work over the past couple of week . much of the correspondence that I have receive from constituent over the past few year have concern the difficulty of obtain GP appointment . interestingly , the demand for GP appointment have rise since before the pandemic , follow the advent of virtual appointment and different mean of contact . patient be now find it more difficult to see someone in a general practice , although overall performance in general practice have improve since before the pandemic . it be important that we support our GP practice as much as we can , to ensure that they deliver the high - quality care that our patient expect . our local practice be fantastic : they be work very hard , in tricky circumstance , to deliver for patient . my hon . friend be , of course , absolutely right . do he agree that part of our duty be to support our general practice ? our constituent often say , " I can not see my gp " , but if we probe , we find that it be a question of whether they be prepared to accept a telephone consultation , which be probably just as good for most of they . radiology be mention early . the issue for the future , surely , be embrace technology rather than outsourcing . in many case , AI reading of film and scan be probably as good as , if not well than , a reading by a radiologist in India , Shropshire or anywhere else . I entirely agree with my right hon . friend about the use of AI to improve productivity in the NHS , and with what he have say about general practice . I generally take a neutral , honest - broker approach when people raise concern about general practice . of course it be important for we to ensure that our practice be perform well , to support they , and to respond to our constituent ' concern more broadly . however , give that the bulk of care be come through general practice — and I be interested to hear , in recent day , about the renew focus on patient choice , particularly in respect of secondary and tertiary care — I think that one of the challenge pose by our current general practice system relate to the absence of patient choice . effectively , general practice , which , as the Minister will know , be private organisation , have a monopoly in term of the patient who be in their catchment area . it be very difficult for patient to move to different practice when the one that they be currently use be not meet their need : when seek an appointment with a gp , they be stick with their own practice , or else they must go through various mechanism to obtain care elsewhere . my hon . friend be make an excellent point about something that be currently affect my own constituency . south Green surgery in Billericay have recently be tell that it be to be close down , and the integrate care board be not ensure that we retain what be essentially competition , so a single surgery will be serve one of the town in my constituency . do he agree that the Department of Health and Social Care should be lean in to ensure that we maintain that competition between GPs ' surgery , so that standard can be drive up wherever possible ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right ; it be important that patient have information and choice , and that they have the flexibility to move between different practice to suit their need . my view be that the GP list system do not work . it do not make sense as it currently stand , and it limit the ability of patient to seek the care that they need in a timely manner . as he just mention , people get stick in practice that be not perform or be not work for they , and they have no ability to move out of they . my right hon . Friend also mention the role of the ICB / ICS system , which bring I to my final point . as a constituency MP , I find it incredibly frustrating that I have no direct control , power or hard influence , as oppose to soft influence , over the local ICS / ICB system . I can write letter and campaign , and I have speak in debate in Parliament . I have lead a debate on the Weybridge health centre , which be finally go to plan after the drama of multiple consultation . my only ability to direct what be happen on the ICB be through directly ask Ministers question in Parliament , or by try to get they to intervene . when the Health and Care Act 2022 be go through in the last Parliament , I raise with the then Minister my concern about the accountability of our ics and icb . we have a real problem with what we mps can do to ensure that our icb and ics be perform for people locally , because there be a disconnect in the link of accountability . I believe that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and the Ministers on the Front Bench absolutely want to see all our local NHS service perform at their very good . I totally believe that they be in it for the right reason and want to see well performance , and I want to help they deliver that . but with all the enthusiasm and will in the world , be they go to take the same interest in my local area as I do ? we mps need the ability to cajole and to direct what our local NHS service be do in order to deliver the good possible care for patient . after all , we be the locally elect representative and , as we see in this year ' s election and will see in election go forward , there be always 24 hour to save the NHS . address backlog in the NHS , together with change the current hospital - centric system , will be of central importance in ensure the long - term sustainability of our health system . under the Conservatives and the coalition Government , we have more than a decade of under - investment , couple with a disastrous top - down reorganisation , which cause the high level of backlog that we currently see across the NHS . while work in the NHS throughout that period , I see at first hand the dire impact that the reorganisation have on our health service , and how it lead to waiting list at a record high and patient satisfaction at a record low . that be underline by the recent analysis from the Institute for Public Policy Research , which show that 25 time more people wait in A & E department last summer than in the same period in 2009 . in its analysis , the IPPR describe long wait for healthcare as the " new normal " for many NHS patient . I welcome the measure that my right hon . friend the Health and Social Care Secretary and his team of Ministers have already introduce to address this issue . I also welcome the measure that the Prime Minister announce this morning . thank to this Labour Government , the NHS in England will receive a record £ 25 billion investment , which will support the Government in meet their target of 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . I pay tribute to the dedication of my former colleague across the NHS , who be work hard to treat patient as quickly as possible and cut waiting time . there be evidence of that happen in my area of east Kent . for example , at the William Harvey hospital in Ashford , an average of 84 patient per day be medically able to be discharge in November 2023 but have nowhere to be medically discharge to ; in November 2024 , the figure be down to an average of 58 patient per day . in the hospital in east Kent in November 2023 , just over 2 , 000 patient be treat in corridor for more than 30 minute ; in the same month last year , the figure have fall to just over 1 , 600 patient . although the figure be go in the right direction , they be still far too high , and no one work in our NHS would claim otherwise . the staff in the health service will keep do their good to clear the backlog , but it will not happen until we see less of an emphasis on patient be treat in our hospital . we need to see more focus on and resource for community - base service to help reduce the pressure on overburdened hospital , as well as change the system so that people be treat close to where they live . as a former mental health nurse , I believe this must also include more timely intervention to treat those in need of mental health support . currently , not only do too many people end up be treat in hospital , but once patient be there , the absence of enough suitable community - base facility mean it be difficult to discharge they . this lead to further blockage and backlog in the system . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on adult social care , I welcome the fact that this Government recognise that without address the social care crisis , more and more people will be leave without the care they need and further pressure will fall on the NHS . I be also pleased that the Government have announce an immediate £ 86 million boost to the disabled facility grant for this financial year . that be in addition to the £ 86 million that be announce at the Budget . together , this funding mean that thousand more people will be able to make the improvement they need to their home so they can live more independently . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for secure this debate . the backlog in the NHS be a national crisis , and it be acutely feel in my constituency . patient , family and staff be bear the brunt of an overstretched and under - resource healthcare system . this morning I be delighted to see the Prime Minister and the Health Secretary at Epsom hospital in my constituency — part of the Epsom and St Helier trust — to announce this Government ' s plan to tackle the backlog of test , check and treatment . I welcome many aspect of today ' s announcement . direct access to check will cut unnecessary waiting time and , if implement well , will result in well patient outcome as health issue be find early . the location of this announcement at a hospital connect to St Helier hospital be particularly potent . over the Christmas period , St Helier hospital , which have be at the heart of healthcare in the community for generation , make the news again . its sink floor and leaky ceiling illustrate the failing of our NHS . the facility be fail . some of the building be old than the NHS itself and be plague by damp , mould and structural issue that impede patient care . the hard - work staff at St Helier hospital be do their good in impossible circumstance , but the reality be that the current infrastructure hamper their ability to provide the level of service and the quality of care that my constituent deserve . Epsom hospital , too , be struggle to cope with demand . over the winter recess I hear harrowing story from constituent who face unacceptable A & E waiting time . one mother bring her child to Epsom hospital with a suspect broken wrist and endure a seven - hour wait for an x - ray , finally leave in the early hour of the morning . while there , she encounter another mother with a nine - month - old baby who have a bump on its head . they leave after six hour without be see because they simply could not wait any long . one constituent ' s 86 - year - old mother be tell by the 111 service to go to A & E at Epsom hospital after an injury , only to be inform that there would be a 10 - hour wait , mean she would have to stay up until 2 am after a potentially serious injury . these be not isolate incident , but rather the live reality for many family . these delay stem from a combination of rise demand , staff shortage and an age infrastructure that can not keep pace . while I welcome the fact that elective care capacity will increase , hopefully reduce the waiting time for care for many patient , this must also come with a focus on improve emergency care . ring - fence elective bed while people wait for emergency care be die in corridor or leave without be check be nonsensical . we must increase the number of staff hospital bed to end degrade corridor care . far , there must be a qualified clinician in every waiting room to ensure that any deteriorate condition be pick up on . locally , it be vital that the Epsom and St Helier hospital be at the front of the queue for necessary repair and that the new specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton be at the top of the priority list for this new hospital programme . the Epsom and St Helier hospital trust cover my constituency as well , and many of our resident rely on those hospital for their care . do my hon . friend agree that it be previous Conservative Government ' s absolute failure to deliver one of the 40 new hospital promise in 2019 that lead to the degradation in care for resident across both our constituency ? in addition , do she agree that the Government must come forward with the funding that resident in both constituency need , to reassure they that their healthcare need will be meet into the future ? I absolutely agree that it be partly a failure of the previous Conservative Government that the hospital have not be build . it be vital that the Epsom and St Helier hospital trust be put at the top of the list as a priority for a new hospital . a new hospital will improve outcome by consolidate critical service under one roof , ease the strain on staff who be currently stretch across two site . moreover , it will enable the Epsom and St Helier hospital to focus on elective care , diagnostic and out - patient service , which will help they to tackle the backlog more efficiently . crucially , the new hospital will expand the overall number of bed . centralise major acute service will address estate challenge , strengthen staffing level and improve patient outcome , which will reduce the intolerable waiting time experience at Epsom and St Helier hospital . I turn to the distressing delay in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder assessment . in September 2024 , the Darzi report highlight the stark reality that demand for ADHD assessment have grow so significantly that it risk overwhelming available resource . nationally , it could take an average of eight year to clear the backlog at the current rate . my constituent Sophie have be face the brunt of this backlog . she have be wait since June 2020 for an adult ADHD assessment , and she will wait quite a bit long , as Surrey and Borders partnership NHS foundation trust have inform I that it be address referral from as far back as March 2019 . the root cause be a mismatch between demand and funding . the service be commission to support 400 assessment annually , but it receive 400 referral every two month . Sophie , like many other , have be advise to seek private assessment , an option that be financially out of reach , as she have be unemployed due to her symptom . this inefficient system should be reconsider to help reduce the enormous backlog . the situation be wholly unacceptable . a third of child with a serious eat disorder be not see within the NHS waiting time standard . do my hon . friend agree that such delay only make matter bad , lead to sicker child , more suffering and great cost to the NHS ? I absolutely agree that prevention be key . if we do not deal with issue immediately , they will just take long to deal with and be more costly in the long term . the people of Epsom and Ewell simply deserve well . they deserve a healthcare system that work for they , not against they . I urge the Government to act swiftly to address these issue , and to deliver the investment and reform that our NHS so desperately need . happy new year , Madam Deputy Speaker . before I begin , I declare an interest , in that my daughter be an NHS nurse . my Carlisle constituency include Cumbria ' s only city , but it also have a vast rural hinterland stretch from Rockcliffe in the west to the outer edge of the Northumberland national park in the east . although my constituency ' s rurality and relative geographic isolation make get to appointment challenging , get an appointment at all be by far the great challenge . as of October 2024 , NHS North Cumbria ' s waiting list stand at 43 , 000 . as for the target of 92 % of NHS patient be see for elective treatment within 18 week , the rate be just 59 % . however , in 2010 , the figure be 93 . 5 % . in 2010 , public satisfaction with the NHS stand at 70 % , the high rate ever record . by 2023 , it have hit an all - time low of 24 % . let we remind ourselves of what happen between 2010 and 2024 . first , as my hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) outline , we have the disastrous Lansley reform — reform that the King ' s Fund describe as a " major distraction " for the NHS . they cause huge , unnecessary upheaval and create an " unwieldy " structure with " fractured leadership " . on top of those reform , the Conservatives lead a decade of under - investment in our health service . spending grow by just 2 % a year in real term between 2010 and 2019 , well below the long - term average in England of 3 . 8 % , which we have see since the 1980 . that mean that when covid strike , the NHS be already severely constrain in what it could do . the result be that overall waiting list have rise to three time their 2010 level , and 18 week be now more like 18 month . that be the record after 14 year of the Conservative Government , and why I be relieved that our NHS be no long in the Conservatives ’ hand . as the Prime Minister set out today , this Government have a plan . by create million of extra appointment , we will finally get to grip with our backlog and give back million of people their life and livelihood . I be delighted that there be recognition of the importance of provide service close to people , which be vital in rural constituency like mine . that , and the injection of £ 26 billion into the NHS , will make a real difference for million of people across the country . we be already see that difference in Carlisle , with the approval of a new £ 12 million urgent treatment centre at the Cumberland infirmary , which be set to open by the end of this year . I be also delighted that north Cumbria will be one of the beneficiary of a new £ 45 million pot set aside to create health and growth accelerator . these will not just improve health outcome locally , but research the most effective approach to help people back into work and to stand on their own foot . that be Labour ' s plan in action . this government will set the shattered bone of our NHS . I welcome this debate , although we have have a number of health debate over the past few sitting day that have crystallise the real problem that we see in the NHS . it be stark that none of the Government Members have mention covid thus far and its massive impact . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) be point at herself ; she might have mention it , but she do not set out the absolute devastation that covid wreak on our service . before I come to the House , I work for the get it right First Time programme , an NHS England programme that be initially fund by my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) when he be Health Secretary , and again when he be Chancellor of the Exchequer . the programme make a significant difference in get rid of " unwarranted variation " within the NHS , because while there be some amazing service , treatment and patient care in the NHS , we have to admit that there be also some poor and inefficient patient care . the get it right First Time programme try to improve patient care and ensure that the worst - perform trust be bring up to the level of the well - perform trust ; I hope that the programme will continue to try to achieve that under the current Government . area for improvement include high - volume , low - complexity work , such as cataract , hip and knee operation . there be massive backlog of such procedure in the NHS that could be clear if some fail trust reach the level not of the top - perform trust , but of the top quartile , or the top 10 % . the hon . Gentleman work in the NHS before covid , as do I . he mention the impact of covid , but do he not recall that in December 2019 , before covid hit , standard have already fall , and only 84 % of patient be be treat within the 18 week target ? why be that allow to happen under the previous Government ? I accept that the pressure on the NHS go way beyond covid , as the hon . Gentleman will remember , but to use the Secretary of State ' s term , covid be the point at which the NHS be " broken " , and it be take a long time to recover . the Government be right to push for more localise service , and to bring service close to the patient . access to GPs be a fundamental part of that , but we know that GPs be overstretch . the previous Government really push Pharmacy First , which be a superb programme . this Government want to go far with it , but there be disincentive for general practitioner to embrace Pharmacy First . what will minister do to ensure that there be no financial disincentive to work with pharmacy ? if we be to deal with the backlog , there have to be a financial incentive . what be concern about today ' s statement from the Secretary of State be the lack of genuine reform . there be a lot of rehash of previous policy , perhaps eke they out a tad far than the previous Conservative Government do , but I think the Secretary of State himself say that if anyone be able to reform the NHS , it be a Labour Government . while I be quite interested in what he be say as shadow Secretary of State , I have be deeply disappointed by what he have say since . it appear to I that unfortunately the union paymaster and the inertia in the NHS have capture he and his Front Bench . I hope that I be wrong , and that the Minister will tell I differently this evening , but that be what I have see . locally , the reality be that there be a problem with be able to bring service close to home . my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) mention the problem of accountability for icb . I have the fortune , or misfortune , depend on how one look at it , of have three icb in my constituency . to use a previously mention term , there be a lot of unwarranted variation in how they deal with my constituent , and with I as a Member of Parliament . a big issue in Bordon be that we want a brand new surgery in the area , but there have be no conversation with the ICB about how that might go ahead . likewise , we be really keen for Haslemere hospital to move from be a district hospital to have an urgent treatment centre . it be vital that we get that move . the community hospital in Farnham could also be somewhere treatment be do close to home . I urge the Government not to sit back , but to use their majority and reform the NHS for the benefit of all our constituent . I have expect to tell the House that I have come straight to Parliament from my operating theatre in Norfolk , where I have be deal with ear , nose and throat surgery backlog this morning , but late last night I receive a call tell I that my operating list be cancel because there be no bed in the day unit that be purpose - build to avoid that issue , and which open only a few year ago . every surgeon in the country will be familiar with that situation , and in every hospital , surgical team be sit idle wait for bed . it be like a fog - bind airport where nothing can take off . there be enormous backlog across almost all of surgery , especially in gynaecology and orthopaedic . we be short of theatre , short of anaesthetist and short of scanner . our patient be suffer and deteriorate in front of our eye . some of they be die . we be short of all manner of specialist , include crucial diagnostic radiologist and pathologist . delay in diagnostic imaging and reporting be very problematic — there be more than 1 . 5 million people on the waiting list to receive a diagnosis — but the Labour Government will deal with the massive NHS backlog because we do it before . between ' 97 and 2010 , we abolish the waiting list , but in the period from 2010 to 2023 , waiting list reach record level . now we see access to GPs , dentistry and all routine surgery as the political emergency that they be . we all hear terrible account of the consequence of such delay from our constituent . we know of they first hand from our own family . my son , who be an A & E doctor , describe trollie of elderly , incontinent patient two abreast in corridor , and in car park . he be unable to admit his patient , and that be right here in London . we know that we must rebuild our hospital , and we will start with those that be actually fall down . my constituent be so pleased to hear both the Prime Minister and the Chancellor promise here in Parliament to replace West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? may I carry on , as I have very little time ? I be glad that the Prime Minister have make general practice and care in the community a central part of his plan . general practice be the front door to the NHS . patient who have a genuine connection with one or two gps be less ill and live long . there be an illuminate article entitle " close to home " in this month ' s Fabian Review by my Suffolk GP colleague Drs Reed and Havard , who reimagine GP as a comprehensive community health service close to the patient , with multiprofessional team of health worker and with mental health service and district nursing all in one place . patient know who their doctor be and know that the community health centre be the place to go . let we call they Bevan community health centre . we really can manage most clinical problem in the community , and invest in our brilliant GPs be truly the key to the crisis . community hub with diagnostic capability for large population would send to hospital only people who need to go to hospital . we must do something about productivity . I start my career with four worker in the theatre operate on eight child , only to reach a situation today of operate on four child with eight worker . as we reform and rebuild our NHS , let we bring the 1 . 5 million staff member with we on this great journey , for it be on they that we and the NHS depend . the measure announce today will surely help , but only if we find enough staff and invest in training . let we look after those who look after we , with fair pay , fair condition and a great deal of respect . that must be our mission . before Christmas , I share in this Chamber the issue impact my Guildford constituent who be struggle to access support for special educational need and disability . today , I want to highlight an aspect of the NHS that be directly link to the SEND issue that I raise : child and adolescent mental health service , well know to most of we in the Chamber as CAMHS . unlike many SEND - relate issue , CAMHS sit not within the remit of education but in health , as it require significant input from NHS specialist . the first step to get help from CAMHS be usually a referral for an assessment . however , the waiting list for some people be up to three year . that be why I be raise the matter today . a long wait for an assessment leave young people without support or a diagnosis and have wide implication . a young person ' s mental health can deteriorate during that wait , which can lead to self - harm , lash out and harm family member , and even suicide . Imagine go through that as a parent — watch , often helpless to support your child , while the system design to help do not . even if they eventually get a CAMHS assessment , there be well - document shortage in medication and problem access therapy . the son of one of my constituent be diagnose with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism spectrum disorder in April 2020 , but receive no follow - up appointment . while his family say it be manageable initially , his school performance begin to decline towards the end of 2021 - 22 , lead his family to seek a review with CAMHS in February 2023 . twenty month on , the review have not take place . his parent seek support to prepare he for his gcse , even if the medication have to be delay , but they be meet with a system unable to provide even basic support . they now face an indefinite wait with no resolution in sight . another constituent have be fight for support for her 13 - year - old daughter , who have be wait more than two year for an ADHD and pathological demand avoidance assessment , despite the mother plead for help for seven year . this single - parent family have endure systemic failure , leave they suffer to an extent that I will not detail today . the prolonged wait for an assessment have take a devastating toll on both their life . it be clear that action be desperately need to ensure that the resource be there to support young people and their family through the CAMHS system and to ensure that medication shortage be address . how will this Labour Government work to recruit and train more professional to clear the CAMHS backlog and ensure that the service can respond in good time — not year — to request for assessment and support ? too many young people and their family be be fail by the current system , and it be time that that come to an end . a happy new year to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if the House will indulge I briefly , may I begin by wish my grandmother well ? she have a fall last night and break two of her rib . she be do okay , but at 98 she may need a little long in hospital that I , her eld grandson , might have need — although that be not a given . tackle deep - root health inequality in Bury North be my priority for this Parliament . the difference there of a mile between postcode can mean a seven - year difference in life expectancy for man and a five - year difference for woman . I wish to reach across the aisle and associate myself with the remark of the good doctor , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) — who speak very well in the debate on assist dying — on what I would call the democratic deficit for mps in relation to icb and act on health inequality at a local level , well beyond what we might achieve through parliamentary question or write to and meet Ministers . I be pleased that the Government will not allow the dire record and waste year of Tory government to prevent Labour from do what we do well in power : fixing and fast - forward the NHS . in Bury North , a constituent I will call Jackie have rheumatoid arthritis . after a severe , debilitate flare - up she wait two day for a gp to call back . she spend eight hour wait in two different hospital before be admit overnight , only to be discharge the next day and tell to go to a third hospital , where no rheumatologist be in place . her emergency appointment be 11 day later . she be leave in tear and unable to speak , so her husband have to advocate for she to get the appointment she desperately need . nhs backlog take a personal and punish toll on people ' s life , include through lose income from lost job or , worse still , lose year with love one from late or miss cancer diagnosis . today ' s commitment from the Labour Government that 92 % of NHS patient will wait no long than 18 week for treatment by the end of this Parliament be an enormous , transformative ambition . if that figure , which be currently at 59 % , improve to 65 % by March next year , that will give comfort to those who rightly expect to feel the change that Labour will bring on their own doorstep . I also welcome the aim of ensure that community diagnostic centre can operate 12 hour a day , seven day a week . thank to the Chancellor ' s Budget , local doctor will be incentivise to consult specialist to explore alternative to hospital treatment . in Bury , where Fairfield general hospital have the second high average wait time for elective surgery in the country , the new national standard for elective care be welcome . incentive for trust that improve wait time be welcome , but do the Minister agree that the focus should be on average wait time — affect the maximum number of patient — rather than rewarding trust that reduce the long possible wait time for few patient ? I understand the capacity demand that will come with that , but it be a hugely important distinction . although reduce the long wait time be important , focus on that metric alone , and rewarding trust for it , risk leave many patient with painful and debilitate condition and trust duck their responsibility . this Government have make it clear that we will address that on our watch . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for secure the debate . I declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and that a family member have share in a medical company . it be a simple fact that as a result of the last Conservative Government , more patient than ever be wait for hospital treatment . in October 2024 , the national waiting list stand at 7 . 5 million . House of Commons Library datum reveal that the waiting list for hospital treatment locally be seven time bad than it be a decade ago . ten year ago , 91 . 9 % of patient in West Berkshire wait less than 18 week for elective surgery ; now that proportion have drop to 75 . 5 % , which be well below NHS target and be completely unacceptable . where be the acknowledgment and apology from the previous Government for the mess they create ? a backlog mean that people ' s condition worsen , force on they more complicated surgery and lead to slow recovery , bad outcome and reduce quality of life . many people in Wokingham receive treatment at the Royal Berkshire hospital , which be important to I as it be where my child be bear and where my cancer be discover . its dedicated staff be the pride of our community , and it employ innovative practice to try to reduce the exist backlog . for example , it have expand its virtual hospital and be now able to treat 124 patient who would normally be in hospital from the comfort of their own home . however , the hospital ' s situation be continually worsen by a crumble estate . some 95 % of its lift be beyond their end of life , and it have have to cancel operation due to infrastructure issue . today ' s announcement that extra investment will be provide to hospital that cut wait time the fast be put the cart before the horse . how do the Secretary of State expect the Royal Berkshire hospital to meaningfully cut waiting time when the Department be unable to set out the next step for its urgently require rebuild ? I and other member will continue to pursue this matter until we get Government action on it . will the Minister please set out when the new hospital programme review will be publish ? a rebuild of the Royal Berks be especially important for the cancer centre . some part of that building be 164 year old — this be where people who be perhaps in the last year of their life be be treat . urgent investment be crucial . I be delighted to secure a commitment from the Government to a national cancer strategy for England , which be a very important step forward . the Government ' s cancer strategy need to clearly set out how it will improve cancer waiting time and tackle outcome . I hope this can be do before the second reading of my private Member ' s Bill on 4 July , but I fear that today ' s announcement regard the 18 - week target pit knee replacement against radiotherapy . cancer affect one in two people in the UK and be expect to increase annually , with 30 % more patient with cancer , yet we have a staggering workforce shortage in almost every staffing group , insufficient capacity , and more than one in 10 refer patient wait more than 104 day for treatment . be the Minister still commit to meet cancer waiting time in this Parliament ? I welcome this debate . another winter and there be more severe backlog — the cause be structural and predictable . the shadow of what Lord Darzi find weigh heavy on this debate , with 14 , 000 unnecessary death in A & E each year , wait time for over - 65 in emergency care have more than double to seven hour , and over 100 , 000 under - three wait more than six hour to be see in 2023 . each one of those number be a devastated family , a patient at great risk , or a patient endure that long , nervous wait . this winter , my local hospital trust have see average bed occupancy rate hit 98 . 5 % . at one point in mid - December , only three out of 715 bed be free to use . the crisis in our NHS that my constituent in Calder Valley face be not the result of a lack of work by our NHS staff — I hope everyone in this House can join I in pay tribute to those hard - work staff . instead , this crisis have come about because of bad policy choice and warning repeatedly ignore . in his report and when he come to the Health and Social Care Committee , Lord Darzi make it absolutely clear that the root cause of the problem be the Health and Social Care Act 2012 , which be push through without precedent or preparation by the coalition Government amid repeat warning from healthcare professional . this disaster prove that to move forward , we have to learn from why bad health policy get make : because of a focus on ideology over practicality , on efficiency saving over real improvement , and on treatment over prevention and late - life care . we must also learn that to rebuild our NHS we can not be top - down , but must build on a foundation of decent social and community care that be close to home and respect the skill of those who work throughout the system . that bring I to my next point , which be about social care . the scale of the crisis in the NHS mean that it will not be fix overnight — indeed , the Secretary of State talk about a 10 - year plan — but we know that problem be solve easier and early if patient be treat close to home . yet the failure to plan health and social care together over the past 14 year mean that more than one in 10 NHS hospital bed be fill by people who simply do not have the right care . in my constituency , Bradford council ' s home FAST — first assessment support — scheme aim to get people home from hospital more quickly and to be assess for any onward care service when they be at home . since its launch , there have be a large reduction in the need for intermediate care facility after hospital care . do my hon . friend agree with I that such innovation need to be at the heart of the Government ' s 10 - year plan , ensure that we integrate health and social care , as he be say , but perhaps also look to revise the well care fund so that it deliver both rapid discharge and rehabilitation , which be obviously both critical to tackle NHS backlog ? in fact , the well care fund work well in West Yorkshire when it work to hasten people ' s journey out of hospital , and that sound like a very good example . in my own local hospital trust , the figure for people on the transfer of care list be even high : 20 % of bed be take up by people who could be treat at home . that be almost 150 patient in hospital rather than get social care where they need to be . even well - run trust be find the wait for transfer of care too great , prove again that we can not fix our health service without fix 14 year of Tory mismanagement or without fix social care . in closing , while this government face problem not of our own creation , we must still learn from what have go before . in this regard , I absolutely welcome the announcement on progress in social care today , but I gently express to the Minister , as I do to the Health Secretary at his Committee appearance , that we need to see action on the ground solve our social care crisis early than 2028 . in 2023 , the National Audit Office tell we that nearly four in 10 director of adult social service be worried about meet their statutory obligation . on top of that , we have a provider crisis because of this instability . the electorate give this Government a term of five year to take bold step to reverse the crisis in our NHS . they reject the previous government because they waste each of their term over 14 year of failure to enact a solution on social care , leave people in hospital instead of be able to receive care among family and friend . I look forward to this Government act on that mandate . order . we will start the Front - Bench the Front - Bench speech at 9 . 35 pm , so our very last Back - Bench speaker be Ellie Chowns . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for secure this debate on the vital area of NHS backlog , which be of great importance to I and my constituent . we be short of time so I will not talk , as I wish to , about the need to tackle the crisis in social care and the need to invest heavily in public health . I will focus my comment on respond to the Government ' s announcement today on elective care . I hope the Minister will be able to respond in a moment to some of the question I want to pose , because it be one thing to use spare capacity in the private sector to tackle the absolute crisis we have with waiting list and backlog — I can understand that as an emergency measure — but it be quite another to propose in effect long - term outsourcing from the NHS to private provider . to be honest , I fear that today ' s announcement could essentially be a form of creep back - door privatisation of aspect of NHS care , and specifically those in which be easy for private sector provider to make a profit . we only have to look at PFI to understand the danger of that approach . I have read today ' s partnership agreement between the NHS and the independent sector , and I be afraid I find it the opposite of reassure . I will briefly canter through some of the reason why . section 2 indicate that the Government do envisage increase private provision of both surgical and diagnostic service . there be some text in section 3 about try to seek assurance that those private provider will not essentially cherry - pick the most attractive , easy and profitable patient . however , all it say be that the independent sector will review its patient criterion ; there be no tooth there . there be nothing in section 4 about measure to protect the NHS from the risk of private provider make excessive profit from the service they provide . we have recently hear in this Chamber case of that happen in the social care sector and the child ' s social care centre . be there not a real risk that that could also happen in the healthcare sector if this be not action ? finally , there be nothing in section 5 to address the risk of transfer service to private provider lead to leaching of staff from the NHS service into the private sector . how can we be guarantee that there be not go to be excessive competition in a workforce that be already extremely stretch ? for the Green party and myself , the profit motive have no place in our NHS . I hope the Minister will provide assurance that the NHS will continue to be publicly own and publicly run for public benefit , and that the concern I have highlight will be address so that the agreement between the NHS and the independent sector have tooth . I now call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson , Jess Brown - Fuller . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for introduce this important debate on our first day back after Christmas . I also thank all hon . member from across the House who have contribute to the debate , and specifically the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , who always bring really valuable contribution because of their background and current profession ; it be very much appreciated when talk about the NHS . my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire highlight in her opening remark that backlog be not just about NHS waiting list , but that there be also problem with mental health backlog , handover delay , a & E wait , poor access to dentistry , GP appointment , cancer treatment waiting time and staff that be be drive from the NHS because they can not provide the care they want to give . our healthcare system remain the no . 1 issue that I be contact about . it be not unreasonable for my constituent and people across the country to expect to receive the care they need when and where they need it . I doubt there be many people who have not be affect or know somebody who have be affect by NHS backlog . indeed my dad struggle for month to get a face - to - face GP appointment for what he believe be a return of a hiatus hernia . by the time he see his gp and be refer , the oesophageal cancer that he have be so progress that palliative care be the only option for he and he pass away shortly after be diagnose in 2021 . when I ask my constituent to get in touch with example of personal experience of the NHS backlog , I be inundate with email from people across Chichester , and I will share some of those with the House . I have Jane , who be at high risk of bowel cancer due to live with ulcerative colitis . she be mean to see her consultant every six month but have not have an appointment since 2019 , despite her GP try on her behalf on multiple occasion . she have no idea if the polyp discover in 2017 have turn cancerous and be live in constant fear of her health deteriorate far . Ian get in touch after wait over a year to receive a scan after he experience extreme chest pain . the scan reveal heart disease , but the lack of any follow - up appointment have leave he anxious and uncertain about his health . I will also mention a good friend of mine , Rylee , who notice irregular bruising and a physical change on the back of their leg in 2021 and be find it hard to walk . after visit the GP , who send an urgent referral to the hospital , Rylee wait for month only to discover when chase the hospital that the referral have go to the wrong place . they then get add to the waiting list and be tell the wait would be between 40 and 50 week . we be four year on from the initial change to Rylee ' s leg , and they be finally be treat by lead specialist as Rylee can no long walk unaided . amputation of their leg be now be consider . if Rylee have be see within the expect window of an urgent referral , they would not be face the prospect of lose their leg in their mid - 20 . these be just a few example of what be a much large picture of the NHS , with care and compassionate staff work within it who be overstretch and overburdened and , as my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire say , who can not provide the care they desperately want to because of a system that can not meet the demand . the Liberal Democrats recognise that this be an inherit problem ; indeed , the key NHS waiting time standard have not be meet for some year . the number of patient wait long than four hour in A & E rise consistently between 2015 and 2020 . the 62 - day waiting time for standard cancer treatment have not be meet in recent year , and the consultant - lead treatment target in England of 18 week have not be meet in 2016 . the last Conservative Government leave emergency care in a deep crisis . the Darzi review state that 800 work day be lose every day to handover delay in 2024 . last winter , ambulance across England collectively spend a total of 112 year wait outside hospital to hand patient over . in 2024 , more than 1 million patient face wait of more than 12 hour in A & E . the Liberal Democrats welcome new investment in the NHS , but instead of spend money firefighting crisis after crisis , we would invest to save taxpayer ' money in the long run . we would do that by invest in the front door and the back door : in primary care , with GPs and dentist , and by reform social care . some of my constituent would like it note that they will not be count on any statistic regard backlog , because they can not get a GP appointment to even get on the backlog list . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for everyone to have the right to see their gp within seven day , or 24 hour if it be urgent , with a 24 / 7 booking system to end the 8 be phone - call lottery to get an appointment . we would also ensure that everybody over the age of 70 and those with a long - term condition have access to a name GP . we would fix the back door and address the social care crisis now , rather than spend another three year commission a report that will find out what we already know : social care be in urgent need of reform . the Darzi review show that inadequate social care account for 13 % of hospital bed occupancy , mean that people who desperately want to get home can not because of the lack of social care package available and that other deteriorate at home , because they can not access the social care they need . in the past year , more than half of all request for social care be unsuccessful . we would strengthen our emergency service to reduce excessive handover delay by increase the number of staff hospital bed and call for a qualified clinician in every A & E waiting room to ensure that any deteriorate condition be pick up on to prevent tragic avoidable incident . I once again thank the hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire for bring forward this incredibly important debate , and I thank those member who contribute to a conversation that matter to my constituent in Chichester and to people across the country . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — a very happy new year to you . may I also wish the grandmother of the hon . member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) a speedy recovery ? I should declare an interest as a consultant practise in the NHS . my brother be a gp and I be on an orthopaedic waiting list , so I be one of the statistic . I be look forward to work constructively with the Government over the next year to deliver for patient across this country . the NHS have be look after we for more than three quarter of a century . during that time , the practice of medicine have transform . cure have be find , and people be live long and healthy life . I thank all those staff who have be work in the NHS and social care across the Christmas and new year period . we all recognise that the NHS be under pressure . we have an age population , patient with more complex need and innovative , but expensive treatment . the pandemic add a huge strain to the NHS . resource be redeploy away from elective care , and much elective care be postpone to reduce the spread of covid . for example , before the pandemic , 54 woman have be wait more than 12 month for a gynaecological appointment . by the time the pandemic be over , that number have go from 54 to 40 , 000 . that be replicate across other department in hospital across the country . although the NHS now treat 25 % more patient than it do in 2010 , waiting list be sharply high . we take step as a Government to bring they down again . those measure be work , though not as quickly as we wish . for example , the 18 - month waiting list be virtually eliminate , and the 52 - week list be steadily fall , despite industrial action . meanwhile , in Wales , where Labour have be in power for more than 25 year , waiting list continue to rise . there be more to do , and no one be suggest that the issue have be resolve . waiting list be still too high , and that be why we fund the £ 3 . 5 billion NHS productivity plan in full to upgrade it , to expand the NHS app and to capitalise on the benefit of artificial intelligence . the Government be elect in July on the promise of a plan , but sadly the plan have still not yet be publish . the Government be also elect on a promise to deliver 40 , 000 more appointment per week . I wish they huge success with that , but I be not optimistic . the Secretary of State have repeatedly be ask when those additional appointment will become available , but there have be no clear answer . will the Minister please provide one , or tell we what progress have be make ? this morning we hear more about labour ' s elective reform plan . I be really pleased to hear that the Government will continue with many conservative initiative , which be work . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not , because I have a time limit . I be pleased to hear that the Government will continue many conservative initiative , such as expand the surgical hub programme and extend the work of community diagnostic centre , but some of the other part be a little confusing . patient be to have a choice of where they be treat , but they already do . they be also to receive text message to remind they of appointment time . that be great , but it be already happen . in fact , a look back through my phone reveal that the early text message I could find remind I of an appointment for my child at Peterborough city hospital be send on 28 July 2015 , so this be not a new initiative . patient be to get result online . well , again , they already do . if the Minister have not see that , I urge she to visit Addenbrooke ' s hospital , where , via the MyChart system , patient can already log on and read their mri or blood result or report . spread good practice be to be welcome , but it be not a revolution . it also face significant headwind . the Government be to direct activity to general practice , but GPs be already rather busy and face financial challenge cause by national insurance contribution . how will shift pressure improve capacity ? when will gps be able to budget ? will the funding settlement be great than their increase cost from national insurance contribution ? if resource be move to general practice , how will that deliver more secondary care appointment ? one person can only do so much work . what be the Government ' s plan for the workforce , which will be so key ? of course , it be not just GPs who be affect by the national insurance contribution . the Secretary of State talk about record investment in hospice , but before Christmas the Minister be repeatedly unable to say whether that record investment would cover the rise in national insurance contribution that those same hospice be face . can she update the House now ? patient be to have the choice on whether to have follow - up appointment , which will apparently reduce a million unnecessary appointment every year . will that be a choice for patient to have a desire follow - up appointment that be not recommend by clinical staff — in which case , that could actually increase the number of appointment require — or will it be a choice not to have an appointment that a doctor or clinician have recommend ? in that case , be that wise ? it be cold outside , Madam Deputy Speaker . in fact , this morning I wake up to blizzard condition at my window . what estimate have the Minister make of the number of extra admission that have occur this winter for elderly patient who have be cold due to the removal of their winter fuel allowance ? will the hon . Lady give way ? she have hear I . I have hear the hon . Lady but will not give way , because the Deputy Speaker have be clear about the time constraint in the debate . have the Minister make an estimate of the number of extra admission cause by elderly people who be cold due to the removal of the winter fuel allowance , what impact that be have on hospital , and how many elective appointment that would otherwise have occur have be cancel as a result ? we hear the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) talk about his cancel ENT list from this morning . we have have six month of a Labour Government . they have cancel the building of 24 hospital , they have launch a series of review , they have significantly increase cost on indirectly provide NHS service because of national insurance , and they have re - announce what have already be happen , in some case for many year . I be a doctor and I be a patient , and I really want the Government to succeed in improve the NHS ; we all do — we have hear too many troubling tale from our constituent and again this evening — but state aim do not make they happen , and launch review and press release be simply not enough . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all hon . member a happy new year . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for secure this debate . I be delighted to be able to respond . it have be a passionate and well - inform debate , and I be genuinely grateful for the opportunity to build on what the Secretary of State say in his oral statement today , because we have a great deal to say about our plan to build more capacity and give patient more power over their care . colleague across the House have set out how 14 year of failure have damage their constituent , let down the people we represent and break the NHS . that be starkly illustrate by my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , who should have be do something else this morning but be not . that be a loss to his patient . it be also highlight by the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) . the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , outline how it impact on her own father as well as her constituent . year of neglect , lack of funding and unresolved industrial action mean that this Government inherit an appalling backlog of people wait for treatment — the 7 . 5 million - strong waiting list . I gently remind the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) and the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , that that waiting list stand at 4 million people before the start of the pandemic . the Darzi investigation describe how these wait be become the new normal , with patient wait far too long for treatment . as a result , public satisfaction with one of our most beloved institution be at an all - time low . that be eloquently put by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , who highlight the figure from 2010 and now , as they affect her constituent . on average , 58 % of people do not receive treatment within 18 week of referral . the NHS constitutional standard set out that 92 % of patient should receive treatment within this timeframe , but that have not be meet consistently for almost a decade . in other word , there be people today young than I who would have no memory of the NHS work efficiently and deliver a timely service . colleague be right to point out the impact on our constituent , with people put their life on hold while they wait for a diagnosis , for a new hip or for eye surgery . if the human tragedy be not enough , the economic and social effect of waiting time be almost incalculable . that be why today the Prime Minister set out our plan to tackle hospital backlog and finally meet the NHS standard of 92 % of patient in England wait no long than 18 week for elective treatment . I confirm for my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) that that be an average . I also wish his grandmother well — that be unfortunate for her time of life , and I hope she be get good care . our elective reform plan set out a bold package of productivity measure and reform to deliver fundamental change for patient by build a health service define by patient choice and patient control . I agree with the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) and for Farnham and Bordon about local accountability . my own comment on the 2022 Act , which I think the Government at the time should have do more on , be well - make . I regularly encourage all hon . member to engage proactively with their icb . it be incumbent on icb to engage with elect representative on behalf of all our constituent . I certainly have always do with mine , and I commend everybody else to do the same . under our plan , NHS care will be increasingly personalise and digital . we will focus on improve experience and convenience , empower people with choice and control over when and where they will be treat . different model of care will be more widely and consistently adopt , follow on from the work by the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon on get it right First Time , which I also commend . we will roll out artificial intelligence and other technology to boost capacity and deliver excellent care consistently across the country . I will not have time to go into the detail of all the driver of the backlog , but we recognise the pressure on primary and community care and social care . that be why last month we be able to put forward proper proposal for a new GP contract , with extra money to slash red tape and bring back the family doctor — the big funding boost to primary care that we have see . I have be really impress by some of the fantastic work go on in woman ' s health hub . we continue to welcome the cross - party support for our proposal on social care , and I hope we build that cross - party support for Baroness Casey ' s work . social care be highlight by my hon . friend the Members for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , among other . on the key driver , in diagnostic we will reduce the wait for scanner by extend the work of community diagnostic centre to seven day a week . patient will be able to receive same - day test and consultation , direct referral from primary and community care , new consulting room and at least 10 straight - to - test pathway by March 2026 . pathway improvement will get we only so far , though . we be also set clear expectation that funding must be use responsibly to provide the good value for money for both patient and the taxpayer . that be why , under our plan , money will follow the patient and the organisation that do the good will get the most reward , so that incentive drive improvement . I will just say gently to the Opposition spokesperson that many place do offer online access — I get text regularly from my hospital , because I , too , be a patient . however , it be not universal , and that be the Conservatives ' failure in government . we want to take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . on cancer , the 62 and 31 - day cancer waiting time standard be last meet in 2015 and 2020 respectively . cancer be a priority for this government : cancer patient be wait too long for a diagnosis and for treatment , and we be determined to change that . we will get the nhs diagnosing cancer early and treat it fast so that more patient survive . I assure the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester , that we remain committed to all three target . we know that swift diagnosis be key to improve outcome and ensure that patient get a diagnosis and treatment quickly , which be why expand CDCs be a core plank of achieve those standard . we recognise that a cancer - specific approach be need to meet the challenge in cancer care , which be why , after the 10 - year plan , we will follow up with a dedicated national cancer plan , which will help we to go far for cancer patient . this government be tackle challenge beyond routine elective care , such as the crisis in emergency care . last month , a quarter of the 2 . 3 million people who attend A & E wait for more than four hour ; in November , the average ambulance response time stand at 42 minute , which be more than double the NHS constitutional standard . these figure do not come close to the safe operational standard set out in the constitution . it will take time to turn thing around , but our action to quickly end the junior doctor strike mean that , for the first time in three year , NHS leader be focus on winter preparedness and not plan for strike . NHS England have set out a national approach to winter planning and be manage extra demand , with upgrade 24 - hour live data centre , strengthen same - day emergency care and offer more service for old people . as we have hear , mental health waiting list be far too long . we want to build on our mission and ensure that we recruit 8 , 500 additional mental health worker to reduce delay . we will also provide access to specialist mental health professional at every school in England , roll out young future hub in every community and modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 . as the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) highlight , young child and young family be be particularly badly affect . the Chancellor back our plan in the Budget with an extra £ 5 . 6 million over the next two year to open new mental health crisis centre and help reduce pressure on A & E service . will the Minister give way ? I would like to , but I be afraid I need to adhere to the time limit . in closing , on Second Reading of the National Health Service Act 1946 , Nye Bevan warn we against follow abstract principle that work on paper but not in the real world . this Government be interested only in what work , and we know we must do thing differently , because the backlog begin to build before the pandemic . nhs constitutional standard have not be meet for more than a decade . whatever the last Government be do , it be not work . that be why our elective reform plan will do thing differently , give patient more choice and more control over their treatment , make great use of technology — include the NHS app — to give patient the convenience of a seven - day diagnostic service . in response to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , we will use private sector capacity to help — support patient be what matter . as the party that found the NHS , we will always be commit to a publicly fund NHS that be free at the point of use . we be go hell for leather to get waiting list down , rebuild our NHS and ensure that it be there for we when we need it once again . none of this will happen overnight , but we be not ask to be judge by our promise ; we will be judge by our result , and we be determined to succeed . I call Helen Morgan to wind up quickly . look at the time , I shall be extremely brief . I thank all colleague who have come along today to make such thoughtful and , in some case , harrowing contribution to the debate . I would like to thank the Minister , the shadow Minister and the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) for their contribution and for so effectively sum up the argument that have be make today . everybody know that the NHS be in crisis . the Government have acknowledge that , which be welcome . we all want to see thing improve for our own constituent , who be suffer the consequence of a system that be on its knee . I welcome the Government ' s announcement over the past few week . I hope they will listen to the constructive comment make by Liberal Democrats , because they be intend to deliver the NHS that our constituent deserve , and that I know the staff who work in the NHS want to be able to deliver . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider backlog in the NHS . business without Debate Human Rights ( Joint Committee ) order , that Alex Ballinger be discharge from the Joint Committee on Human Rights and Peter Swallow be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition order , that Kevin Bonavia be discharge from the Petitions Committee and Paul Davies be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs order , that John Grady be discharge from the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee and Sam Carling be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Welsh Affairs order , that Chris Evans be discharge from the Welsh Affairs Committee and Gill German be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Police funding : Cambridgeshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Tami . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this important debate on police funding in Cambridgeshire . it have take a number of attempt to secure this debate and I be extremely grateful that it will now be the first Adjournment debate of the year . I be extremely pleased to see so many of my fellow Cambridgeshire mp in attendance and I welcome their timely intervention . have speak to several of they about the subject , I know that this be a topic that concern we all and transcend party politic . Police funding continue to be an issue throughout the county . I make it a cornerstone of my election campaign and pledge to fight for a fairer funding solution . last year , Cambridgeshire experience significant political change , not only in the make - up of its member of Parliament but in the make - up of its constituency , with the necessity to add a new parliamentary constituency owe to the increase in the county ' s population . Cambridgeshire be the fast - grow county and , as such , it be vital that its grow population be properly protect . the subject of police funding in Cambridgeshire have be a grow issue in recent year . indeed , the way in which our police force be fund , via the Government core grant allocation and the police precept element of the council tax bill , have long since lead to an unequal distribution of funding across the police force of England and Wales . Cambridgeshire be the fourth worst - fund police force . the discrepancy between the funding available to Cambridgeshire constabulary and other similar - sized force become apparent when we look at their per capita allocation . in Cambridgeshire , it be only £ 217 . 80 per person , whereas in Durham it be £ 265 . 17 . the national average be £ 275 . 20 . Cambridgeshire currently receive a raw deal because the police allocation formula that underpin the funding be base on population datum that be now hopelessly out of date . the current formula be introduce in the 2013 - 14 financial year and be base on the population size of Cambridgeshire in 2012 . the county have , as we all know , grow significantly in the intervene 13 year . when the figure be break down they show that this year , 2024 - 25 , the total budget for Cambridgeshire be £ 197 . 5 million . that be split between 56 % government funding and 44 % precept . the national average be 66 % government funding and 34 % precept . why will cambridgeshire resident continue to pick up the slack next year when there be an opportunity to change the formula to well balance that split and reduce the burden by 10 % , which would have bring we in line with the national average ? indeed , that £ 197 . 5 million be Cambridgeshire ' s share of the total budget for England and Wales of £ 16 , 575 . 7 million . it represent just 1 . 2 % of total funding . that correlate with Cambridgeshire ' s share of current police number . as of 31 March 2024 , there be 147 , 746 full - time equivalent police officer in England and Wales . of those , Cambridgeshire have just 1 , 757 police officer , or 1 . 2 % . the Government have pledge to restore neighbourhood police via an uplift of 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police . the pledge be first make by the now Home Secretary in February 2023 but , as I understand it , the recruitment of those officer will not begin until the 2025 - 26 financial year , and they be set to be recruit over the remain four year of the Parliament . will the Minister clarify whether the 13 , 000 be on top of the police headcount in February 2023 , or against the project headcount in March 2029 ? if it be the latter , what be the project headcount for police in England and Wales in March 2029 ? in November , the Home Secretary confirm that those 13 , 000 neighbourhood police would be make up of only 3 , 000 FTE police , 4 , 000 police community support officer , 3 , 000 special constable and 3 , 000 officer reassign from other duty . on the basis of those number and the allocation that I establish early , Cambridgeshire would , with just 1 . 2 % of those number , receive 36 police officer , a figure which , spread over the remainder of this Parliament , amount to just nine new officer per year . give that we have eight constituency in Cambridgeshire that is , realistically , just one new officer per constituency , and assume that Peterborough and Cambridge , as our two city , have an increase requirement compare with more rural constituency , we could easily see zero new officer in some Cambridgeshire constituency . additionally , the current plan include the redistribution of 3 , 000 exist police officer . as the previous calculation show , at just one officer per constituency , it be highly unlikely that there will be any discernible difference . while I appreciate that operational decision be the responsibility of the chief constable , I gently ask the Minister where she think that those officer , in an already overstretch and under - resource force , will be redistribute from ? before Christmas , I speak to Cambridgeshire constabulary about the impact the Government ' s neighbourhood policing pledge would have . this provide a useful illustration of what the pledge look like for the force that have not be properly resource . the Government have pledge that every neighbourhood will have a name officer . as thing stand the town of St Ives — a town with a population of 17 , 000 resident — have a single name officer to cover it , who be also the name officer for the small market town of Ramsey in North West Cambridgeshire , 12 mile to the north and just outside my constituency , with a further 6 , 000 resident . that same officer be also responsible for all the village that lie between those two town : warboy , Bury , Upwood , Wistow , Broughton , Old Hurst , Woodhurst , Pidley and , I believe , even Somersham , Bluntisham , Colne , earith , Needingworth and Holywell . conversely , the same area be cover by two member of Parliament and more than a dozen councillor . how big an area should one officer be expect to cover ? my hon . friend be make an interesting point about the reality of police in a rural area . my constituency have one of the most consistently underfunde police force in the country . two misconception be that there be no crime in rural area , and that if it do exist , it do not require the same manpower as other area . both those assumption be absolutely wrong . the reality be that crime in rural area be down to county line , traffic , cyber - crime and organised crime . can my hon . friend attest to the change nature of crime in Cambridgeshire that we experience in Suffolk , and to the fact that rural crime be not easy to police ? I concur wholeheartedly with that assessment , and I will shortly go into more detail about the difficulty pose by rural crime , in term of both manpower and the specific that simply do not exist in other part of the country . no one would consider their neighbourhood to be the same as that of another town 12 mile away . when , in November , I ask the Minister for her definition of a community , I do not receive an answer ; I be simply tell that more detail would be set out in due course . I therefore hope she will now provide her definition of a community in the context of the size of community that a single officer should be expect to cover . will she also tell we what additional resource the Government will provide in Cambridgeshire to ensure that their neighbourhood policing pledge can realistically be meet by the St Ives safe neighbourhood team and , indeed , safe neighbourhood team throughout the county ? when I speak to resident in some of our rural village and community , particularly those west of the A1 in my constituency , the lack of a visible police presence be a constant theme . many resident complain that they never see a police officer in their community , and that chime with the Government ' s own finding . accord to Labour , half the public have say that they never or almost never see an officer on patrol . will the Minister explain how the Government ' s neighbourhood policing pledge will address the paucity of visible policing in rural area ? in village such as Brington and Molesworth , resident benefit from the presence of Ministry of Defence Police . nearby RAF Molesworth be operate by the United States Air Forces in Europe and , with the vast majority of United States air force personnel live in the local community rather than on base , the MOD Police patrol in the surround village to ensure the safety of US personnel . while that provide a police presence of sort , local resident should not have to rely on the nearby presence of the US military in order to see the presence of the police . as a result of the lack of confidence feel by some resident give the lack of a visible police presence and deterrence , those in some local village have turn to private security firm such as Blueline , which cover the area from Catworth to Hail Weston with monitoring and response to call or alarm activation from those who pay for the service . for local resident who know that their village will be without any sort of visible police deterrent , that be a sensible option for the peace of mind that it bring , but it should not even be a consideration . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue . one of the major issue in the rural countryside that I , he and other represent be the theft of farm machinery , often in the early hour of the morning . the Police Service of Northern Ireland work alongside the Ulster Farmers ' Union . be the hon . Gentleman aware that the police in his constituency work alongside the National Farmers Union to mark all the machinery so that if it be steal , they can trace where it go ? I know that in Northern Ireland , it go south towards the Republic and then come across to England . perhaps the police and the NFU could look at that together . I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the manner of the rural crime that take place . I will come on to talk about the rural crime action team that we have in Cambridgeshire and how they deal with the specific threat of that type of rural crime . my hon . friend highlight an important point about rural crime . he have powerfully set out how Cambridgeshire be underfunde per capita compare with other force , and he have explain how that be more acute in area such as Fenland and rural constituency . can he also see the irony in the Prime Minister launch his housing strategy in Cambridge , and in the fact that the Government say they want to see much more housing in Cambridgeshire , yet their per capita funding discriminate against Cambridgeshire as an area ? indeed ; my right hon . friend make a good point . the Prime Minister launch his housing campaign in Alconbury Weald , which be in my constituency . it currently have around 1 , 500 house , with another 4 , 000 home to be build in that location . it be indeed a great irony that we be talk about per capita funding in an area that be grow as quickly as it be . we need to address that as a matter of urgency . the hon . Gentleman be an old friend — we know each other in a previous life . we be from different party , but we go way back . I do not know what that do for his street cre and mine , but I want to be here to support he . as we be talk about irony , do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be ironic that a former Chief Secretary be take part in a debate about the lack of police officer and the lack of funding , to which the hon . Gentleman just refer ? I wonder whether he share my quizzical interest in where those officer be and where that funding be . my question on funding specifically be about the way that Cambridgeshire be short - change by the police allocation formula . I explain early that the nub of the issue in Cambridgeshire be the fact that the funding be so out of date . on the growth of Cambridgeshire , which be mention early , adjust the police allocation formula would go some way towards fill the gap . it be not just about Cambridgeshire ; I know that place such as Lincolnshire , which be even bad fund than Cambridgeshire , would also benefit from the formula be look at . as we have just have a debate on child sexual exploitation , it be worth mention that we be see the nature of crime in rural area change very quickly , and that the challenge face by police force five or 10 year ago be not the challenge that they face today . in Suffolk , the reality be that we have a massive problem with trafficking and a massive problem with prostitution . we have problem that be just not there 10 year ago . it be all very well for Labour Members to say , " what do you do about it ? " , but we be debate how to meet the challenge of today , not yesterday . will my hon . friend speak to that for a moment ? I thank my hon . friend for mention that , and he be right about the nature of the threat that be now face . aspect such as modern slavery go unseen in rural community . I can think of countless example in my own constituency , where individual have be find in isolated warehouse and barn out in the countryside , usually at somewhere like a cannabis farm . I even attend a cannabis farm right in the middle of St Ives with member of Cambridgeshire constabulary . a number of individual have be live and work there , presumably under duress . such activity go unseen , and increase the police ' s ability to reach unseen area will be hugely important . to that extent , I ask the Minister how the Government ' s neighbourhood policing pledge will restore confidence in Cambridgeshire ' s rural community , who feel that their need be not necessarily a priority . in April , the Prime Minister pledge that " Britain ' s rural community will be protect with the first ever government - back rural crime strategy . " will the Minister confirm when that rural crime strategy will be publish and how it will benefit Cambridgeshire specifically , give that we have already establish that there will be little in the way of additional resource for the county ' s police force ? rural crime be a major issue in Cambridgeshire and in my constituency . yes , we can mark big farm machinery , but people be steal part from farm machinery , and those part be much more difficult to track . hare coursing be also a major problem . the hon . Member have mention the sheer size of the area of Cambridgeshire that the tiny number of police we have be expect to cover . will he ask the Minister to ensure that when the Government be divert police , as they be talk about do , they do not divert they from the rural crime unit , and indeed look to bolster that unit ? I thank the hon . member for that contribution . I ask a local farmer a few week ago how he would tackle hare course on his land , and at what point he would feel emboldened enough to stand up to those individual . he explain to I that that be simply too dangerous , even though they be farmer and big , burly bloke . he say a friend of his be douse in petrol and have a match hold to he by those responsible for hare course . it be simply not worth people risk their life to take they on . in fact , hare coursing mean a 999 call . if you see a vehicle that you suspect be involve in hare course — a 4x4 with no plate and a couple of lurcher in the back , for example — that be a 999 call , and you will get an adequate response . that be a perfect segue to rural crime . rural crime be a specialist area , and require officer who understand how to tackle it . we see hare course and the theft of machinery , equipment , gps , fuel and livestock , with the influence of organise crime . these crime require a specialist team , and Cambridgeshire ' s rural crime action team be one of the good . have join it recently on an operation , I see at first hand how effective it be . it punch above its weight , despite be under - resource . just over a year ago , it be award the rural initiative of the year by the NFU for Operation Walrus , spearhead a national crackdown on GPS theft . in April , the now Home Secretary pledge : " labour will crack down on these criminal , establish a dedicated Rural Crime Strategy to restore order to our rural area , back up with tough power and increase rural police patrol . " I ask the Policing Minister how this pledge will apply to Cambridgeshire . how will the Government ' s pledge rural crime strategy restore order to a county that be 90 % rural ? how will the Home Secretary ' s commitment to increase rural police patrol translate into increase support for an under - resource specialist team such as the rural crime action team , as well as an increase in visible police presence ? in October last year , Cambridgeshire county council pass a motion that directly address the issue of fair police funding . the motion be bring by Councillor Alex Bulat , the labour candidate in Huntingdon during the last election , and my opponent . as I mention at the start of my speech , fight for fair police funding for Cambridgeshire be one of my election pledge to my now constituent . while Councillor Bulat never address the issue of police funding during the election campaign , I be hugely pleased to see she take up that fight now , and raise the issue at county council level . the motion call for this Labour Government to ensure that Cambridgeshire have its fair share of the new neighbourhood police officer , and that they be fully fund by the central police core grant . it ask Cambridgeshire mps to lobby for a fair funding deal for our county , through change to the Government ' s police grant allocation that well reflect population datum and local factor . the Policing Minister know well that I have be campaign for fairer funding . this debate be not the first time I have address the issue with she — I have do so in person and via write question — and I appreciate her tolerance . can she respond directly to the request in the motion from Cambridgeshire county council , and explain to the council why it have not yet receive a fair funding deal ? with that , I give the Policing Minister the opportunity to respond to these question , but lastly , will she and the Home Secretary meet I , other Cambridgeshire mp and our police and crime commissioner to discuss the step require to update the police allocation formula , so that funding for 2025 - 26 be base on Cambridgeshire ' s current and future population size , not on the population as it be nearly a decade and a half ago , and to discuss redress the imbalance that see Cambridgeshire resident contribute 10 % more than average across England and Wales to make up the Government ' s shortfall ? our constituent in Cambridgeshire deserve to feel safe . they deserve to receive the full protection that the Government can provide , and they deserve to not pay over the odd to receive that . let I begin by wish everyone a very happy new year , especially you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , who secure this important debate , and all the Cambridgeshire MPs present in the Chamber . I must also wish a happy new year to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be start the year as he finish the last one : by contribute to every Adjournment debate hold in this place . I thank all the police , police staff , police community support officer and special who be on duty over Christmas and the new year , keep we all safe . I have the privilege to see that at first hand in Birmingham city centre , when I accompany West Midlands police , and also in Bedford with Bedfordshire police , just before the Christmas recess . quite understandably , the hon . member for Huntingdon be focus on police funding for his constituency and his police force , and I will shortly come to the specific question on Cambridgeshire constabulary . however , I will start by refer to the provisional police funding settlement for England and Wales , which be lay before the House just before the Christmas recess . the headline be that overall funding for policing will rise to £ 19 . 5 billion in 2025 - 26 . that be an increase of up to £ 1 billion from this financial year , and we be invest in key area . we have listen to what the police have to say about the challenge they face , and we have secure a settlement that seek to address those concern and provide the building block for our programme of reform . include in that figure be £ 100 million to kick - start our commitment to neighbourhood police and put officer back into the heart of community . we be also cover the cost to the police of the change to employer ' national insurance contribution and the police pay award . turn to the point raise in the debate , and particularly to fund for Cambridgeshire constabulary , I remind the House that it be for police and crime commissioner to set the annual budget for their police force area , include the level of the police precept . it be for the operationally independent chief constable to decide how to use the resource to meet the police and crime commissioner ' s priority . have say that , fund for Cambridgeshire will rise by up to £ 11 . 1 million in the next financial year . this be a cash increase of up to 5 . 6 % compare to the current year , and it be a 3 . 1 % real - term increase . on funding for employer ' national insurance contribution , I confirm again that the distribution will not be base on the funding formula share . I hope that provide some reassurance to the force . we understand that compare funding between force will result in high and low . I commend Cambridgeshire ' s leadership in run an efficient force that have maintain officer number and work to keep the community safe in a very challenging financial environment . the financial shock of recent year , as well as the position that we inherit from the previous Government , have mean take some tough choice , but we believe that we have secure a balanced settlement for police while still drive forward with our key commitment . in return , we have be very clear that we expect police force to look for ambitious way to drive efficiency and productivity and to make real improvement . we be support this through our recently announce commercial efficiency and collaboration programme , which will have its early focus on procurement framework and work to use the full advantage of police buying power , alongside the potential for great cost recovery . December ' s announcement be the provisional police settlement , which be now open to consultation until 10 January , and cambridgeshire constabulary have the opportunity to make further representation during this period . on the concern raise by the hon . member for Huntingdon about the funding formula , I note that population change can vary across the country . I note what he say , and I recognise that force that have see big change will be keen to ensure that the funding that they receive keep pace with demand . in the provisional police settlement , we have deliver a real - term increase in funding for Cambridgeshire constabulary for next year . will the Minister give way ? I will just finish this point , as it be perhaps pertinent , give who wish to intervene . the £ 1 billion overall increase in the police settlement next year come at a time when the Government be have to make tough decision on budget after inherit a £ 22 billion black hole . we be work to fix the economy . the Minister be make a separate point ; my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be talk about the share of the exist pie — the proportion that Cambridgeshire get — not about whether more funding be be put in . I want to pick up on her interesting point about the consultation be open until 10 January , which be not very far away . what criterion will she apply , when it come to make adjustment to that provisional allocation ? be those criterion publish ? a lot of hon . member may not be sight on the change that may be make to the allocation , or on how the Government will reach that decision . the right hon . Gentleman be an experienced Member of the House , so he will know that this be the normal process . the provisional settlement be announce before Christmas , and then there be an opportunity for police force to make further representation or to query figure . that have always be the case ; there be nothing new about the process that we be use . however , as I say , it be important to note that we be have to make difficult decision because of the inheritance we have . government grant be not the only source of income available to police force . in 2025 - 26 , PCCs in England have the flexibility to increase the precept by up to £ 14 for a band d equivalent property , or to go far , should they wish , by hold a local referendum . I note that the Cambridgeshire PCC have choose to maximise precept in previous year , and subject to the decision for 2025 - 26 , 44 % of Cambridgeshire police ' s settlement funding will be raise locally via the police precept . I know the hon . member for Huntingdon be concerned about the additional demand that a population increase may create for Cambridgeshire police , but I ask he to consider the positive impact that such an increase may have on the council tax base and , as a result , the income that will be generate locally by the PCC . in response to his question about review the funding formula , and on the delivery of this Government ' s safe street mission , we have be clear that broad policing reform be necessary to address the challenge face by police , and to help the system deliver effective and efficient police to the public . I note the contribution that have be make about the change face of crime in this country , and the challenge that police force face . that be why we have clearly set out a reform agenda . the allocation of funding to police force remain an important consideration in that reform work . phase 2 of the spending review will give we an opportunity to consider police funding in the medium term , ensure that it align with our programme of reform and delivery of the safe street mission . I really welcome the increase in police funding for Cambridgeshire . I understand the concern be raise . a lot of growth be happen in and around Cambridgeshire . can the Minister reassure I that her Department will have the relevant conversation with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and other , to ensure that we show resident how we be support police growth as the population expand ? I be happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I will quickly address the issue of neighbourhood police . I be sure that we can all agree that public confidence in policing be always well when the police be visible , and when there be officer in the heart of community , build real relationship with the people they serve . there be many way for the public to contact the police , but we hear consistently that the public value a local , visible police presence . that be why we be commit to rebuild neighbourhood police after it be decimate over the previous 14 year . a name , contactable police officer for every community will be a key part of the neighbourhood policing guarantee . we will set out exactly what the public can expect from their neighbourhood policing team . as I say , we have kick - start our commitment with £ 100 million of funding next year to start the work of put 13 , 000 police back in our community . I congratulate the hon . member for Huntingdon again on secure the debate , and all member who contribute to it . whether we look at this through a national or local lens , police resource matter . it matter to the brave and hard - work officer and staff who work every day to keep the rest of we safe , and to the community they serve , whether in Cambridgeshire , with its rural and urban area , or anywhere else . that be why we set out in the provisional funding settlement our intention to make a very substantial investment in policing , and it be why we be work closely with force to equip they for the challenge that they face , and to deliver our safe street mission . we be already make progress , and will drive it far with our investment in neighbourhood police in this settlement . question put and agree to . House adjourn .