Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Jobcentres : economic Growth what assessment she have make of the impact of jobcentre on economic growth . what assessment she have make of the impact of jobcentre on economic growth . increase employment and help people into good work be essential to grow our economy , which be why our " get Britain work " plan set out our vision to reform jobcentre and build a new job and career service that will meet the different need of local labour market , people and business . on Friday , I visit the assessment centre at the west Ealing jobcentre , where staff tell I the assessment focus on prove that disabled people can not work , rather than identify what job they could do if they have the right support . many disabled people in my constituency be eager for a good job . what more could jobcentre and the Department do to help disabled people into work , rather than simply write they off ? I thank my hon . friend for meet with Department for Work and Pensions colleague in west Ealing and , through she , thank they for all the work they be do . I know she will have be impress by they , as I always be . disabled people have a right to work like everyone else , and it be our job to see that right realise . do so will benefit everyone , as we all win when people ' s talent and potential be maximise . it be good for business and strengthen our economy . we be do great thing to bring forward our plan for a new job and career service , which will put disabled people at its heart . I recently visit two jobcentre in my area , Thorne and Scunthorpe , and see the great work be do by the staff there . our jobcentre should be place where everyone can go for help to get they back into work . however , many blind and visually impair people need technology such as screen reader to use computer , while other might need specialist screen magnification software . research by Sense have find that no jobcentre have this specialist assistive technology , mean that some disabled jobseeker can not use the computer on site to look for work . how will the Government ensure that jobcentre be equip with essential piece of assistive technology in the future , enable more disabled people to look for work ? I apologise to my hon . friend ; I could not quite hear which jobcentre he have visit . however , I thank he for do so and for connect with DWP colleague in that way ; it be really valuable . I ask he to take all our thank back to they . as part of the new job and career service , we will radically enhance our use of technology so that people can access support through the channel that well meet their need . assistive technology can aid the accessibility and inclusiveness of the new service that we be build , so we be listen to those who already use it . on 22 January , the Minister for disabled people , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I meet colleague from across Parliament on the all - party parliamentary group on eye health and visual impairment , where we have a great opportunity to listen to expert in this field . do the Minister agree that whatever step her Department be take to get people into work be be immediately undermine by the anti - growth , anti - job and anti - business measure include in the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill ? I do not . will the Minister join I in commend the dedication and hard work of our work coach , who assist with job application and interview preparation ? on that one , I certainly will agree . our work coach be absolutely brilliant , and they be lead the way in change jobcentre . Pension Credit take - up what step she be take to increase take - up of pension credit . in recent month , the Department have run the big ever pension credit take - up campaign , across tv , radio and online . some 150 , 000 pension credit claim be make in the 16 week follow the winter fuel payment announcement , and the campaign continue . this week , new work to invite all pensioner newly receive housing benefit to claim pension credit will begin . I thank the Minister . the late figure show that at least 800 , 000 pensioner be eligible for pension credit but do not claim it , which mean they have now also lose out on the winter fuel payment that they previously would have enjoy . do the Minister think that mean - testing be work ? it be important that 1 . 5 million pensioner will receive the winter fuel payment this winter . the statistic my hon . friend refer to relate to previous year , before the recent take - up campaign . however , he be right to highlight that under the Conservative Government , three in 10 eligible pensioner be miss out . in recent day and week , household bill across my constituency have go up and up and up . many who miss out on pension credit because they be just above the cut - off will now be wonder where they will find that extra money . will the Government think again about the removal of the winter fuel payment and ensure that pension credit be roll out on a taper ? it be important that we keep drive up the take - up of pension credit , but that be not the only support available to pensioner : everyone will see the state pension rise by over 4 % this April ; the household support fund be very important and will be extend for another year ; and the warm home discount be available to the poor pensioner . government figure show that an additional 42 , 500 household have claim pension credit , yet that be only about 5 % of all those eligible who be not claim it . as constituency mp , we be have to support people who be really struggle with the cold and their financial balance . will the Minister think about set up a pensioner poverty taskforce , so we can really get underneath the issue face old people ? I be sure that all member , on both side of the House , be provide support to their constituent — pensioner , those of work age and child — to ensure they can cope follow a difficult few year for everyone because of the cost of living crisis . on pensioner poverty specifically , it be important that we update our understanding of how that have develop . if we look at the record , we see that pensioner poverty halve under the previous Labour Government , but rise by 300 , 000 under the Tory Government over the past 14 year . those on the guarantee element of pension credit receive the warm home discount , but many do not . follow the change make a couple of year ago , link the warm home discount to the age and size of a property , have the Government make any assessment of how many people have be affect the double whammy of lose the warm home discount and the winter fuel payment ? I have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s comment and will raise it with the responsible Minister in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , but it be important that all pensioner who be entitle to support get it . that be what the Government be focus on . unemployment rate what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of recent trend in the unemployment rate . thank to the dreadful inheritance leave to we by the Tory Government , we need to raise productivity , reduce economic inactivity , increase employment rate and drive up economic growth . our " get Britain work " plan set out how we will progress our ambition of an 80 % employment rate , which would place the UK among the highest - perform country in the world . there be some lovely wording in that answer , but the Government appear to be do absolutely the opposite . follow the Budget , it appear that there be not a week that go by without another employer announce significant job cut . reed recruitment have already announce that job posting be plummet . what will the Government do to support the Minister ' s Department in the situation it will find itself in — a rapidly increase number of people look for job and a rapidly decrease number of job be post because of the Government ' s policy ? I be glad the hon . Gentleman be bother by the employment rate and I hope he be bother by the record of his party , which see employment fall off a cliff after the pandemic and never recover . we be an outlier in that ; it do not happen anywhere else in the world . as it be , our jobcentre , which , as we have say , be full of brilliant staff , see just one in six employer ever consider use they to recruit . we will change that . we have a new strategy . the Secretary of State recently announce our plan to ensure that the Department of Work and Pensions serve business and that we get the good job into jobcentre so that people can take they up , improve their life and grow our economy . Benefit Fraud by Criminal Gangs what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle benefit fraud by criminal gang . I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , to his post as Pensions Minister , and to place on record my personal thank to his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , for all her hard work . our new Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill will update the Department ' s power to tackle fraud for the first time in more than 14 year , include enable our serious and organised crime investigator to apply for a warrant ; enter and search premise for evidence ; seize item such as computer and phone ; and bring criminal gang to justice . do my right hon . friend agree that tackle fraud against the taxpayer be key to set the country ' s finance on a sustainable footing and allow the investment in public service that my constituent be so desperate to see ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we have a responsibility and a duty to use every possible measure to ensure that taxpayer ' money be wisely spend , on our school , hospital and police and on support those who be in genuine need . our new Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , along with fraud measure in the Budget , will save £ 8 . 6 billion over the next five year . that be the big fraud package ever . we be elect on a mandate for change , and that be what this Government will deliver . in the press today there be a reference to a criminal gang who defraud the DWP by more than £ 1 million and be able to abscond to a certain eastern european country . without mention too many thing that be happen , can the Secretary of State tell I whether there be a way , within the law of this land , of chase those people up , get they back here and find out where all that misappropriate money have get to ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this despicable case . the new power in the Bill — the exist power have not be update for 14 year — will bring we into line with other public body and ensure that we can investigate this properly , secure the evidence and get our money back . vulnerable People : work support what step she be take to support vulnerable people into work . we be fully commit to help vulnerable people into work . it be good for they , it provide firm with great worker , it reduce the benefit bill , and it boost economic growth . connect to Work , which will be roll out this year , will greatly improve support . one of my constituent be a highly educate , high - earn civil servant who have serious care need as a result of a bad accident about 30 year ago . his need have be assess as health - relate , which mean that the NHS pay the £ 81 , 000 cost of his care . if they be reassess as social care need , he would be force to exhaust his saving . each year his disability be reassess , and during that reassessment his ability to work be unfairly treat with suspicion . the Government say that they want to help disabled people into work , which be a good thing . my constituent be work already , but fear that a huge disincentive will appear on the horizon if his status change . do minister understand his concern ? yes , I definitely do understand his concern . our view be that disabled people should have the same chance to work — the same opportunity — that everyone else take for grant , and we want to work with disabled people to reform the system to ensure that that be what they get . in the spring , we will publish a Green Paper on reform to the health condition and disability benefit system . my constituency face high level of economic vulnerability : 4 . 4 % of my constituent be not in education , employment or training , and , bad , one in 10 be either neet or unaccounte for . what action be the Minister take to ensure that they be help into both employment and skill development ? I think my hon . friend will greatly welcome the youth guarantee announce in the " get Britain work " White Paper . we want to ensure that every single young person get the same chance . we have see a dreadful increase in the number of neet young people over the past few year , and we be get to grip with that and tackle it . pension regulator : economic Growth if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the Pensions Regulator on economic growth . the Government be look across the piece at how the important work of our regulator support economic growth , and the Pensions Regulator , which oversee the third large pension system in the world , be no exception to that . the then pension Minister , Guy Opperman , say that green - lighting define benefit pension superfund be his great achievement of lockdown . the unelected Governor of the Bank of England then unhelpfully intervene and say that superfund would be a risk to financial stability , and as a result the Pensions Regulator have authorise only one pension superfund to come into existence . can the Minister be a little more specific and tell we what exactly he be go to get the Pensions Regulator to do differently in order to support the growth mission ? that be an important question . the Pensions Regulator do recognise its important role in support growth ; indeed , it have statutory duty not just to protect saver but to minimise the impact on the growth of employer . superfund have an important role to play in ensure that we have large pension fund that be able to invest in a wide range of asset . as the hon . Gentleman say , on an interim basis the Pensions Regulator have authorise one such fund , but we will take measure in the pension scheme Bill to make further progress in this regard . winter Fuel Payment : Pensioner Poverty what assessment she have make of the potential impact of means - test the winter fuel payment on level of pensioner poverty . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of means - test the winter fuel payment on level of pensioner poverty . this Government have run the big ever take - up campaign on pension credit , which be worth around £ 400 on average to those eligible . [ Official Report , 10 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) it also open the door to extra support and mean that 1 . 5 million pensioner will continue to receive the winter fuel payment . the modelled impact of the decision to target the winter fuel payment at those who need it most do not account for the measure that this Government be take to raise pension credit take - up . there be no doubt that the cut to the winter fuel payment have hit Suffolk hard . NHS Suffolk report that 97 % of bed be occupy over the Christmas period due to a spike in cold , flu and pneumonia - like symptom . Kesgrave community centre have set up warm room for impact pensioner . the only good news be that the Suffolk Community Foundation have manage to raise £ 100 , 000 to support pensioner across our community who be impact by the cut . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the Suffolk Community Foundation for be there for the most vulnerable people in our society when his government be not ? this Government and the important charity that the hon . gentleman mention be here for the most vulnerable pensioner . that be why we be target the winter fuel payment at those who need it most , and why we will uprate all the state pension element by over 4 % this April . he raise the case of the national health service and how important it be to old generation , but it be his party that drive the NHS into the ground over the last 14 year . labour - control Bridgwater town council be increase its council tax precept by 40 % . that mean that pensioner in my constituency be suffer from not only the loss of their winter fuel allowance , but an enormous tax rise . what advice do the Minister have for those of my constituent who do not qualify for pension credit , and who now face the loss of the winter fuel allowance from this Government and a huge tax rise from their Labour council ? I encourage all pensioner to consider whether they be eligible for pension credit , but also to look for the wide support that can be provide via the household support fund and the warm home discount . I say gently to the hon . member that the driving up of council tax bill be a direct result of the destruction of local government finance by the conservative party over 14 year . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the Minister to his place . I have a simple question for he : how many people be still wait for their winter fuel payment ? the large campaign to drive up pension credit take - up be now under way , and it will continue in the year ahead . what we be see at present be that anyone who make their claim for pension credit before 21 December will receive their winter fuel payment when that claim be process . so the answer be that the Minister do not know . he do not know how many people be wait for their winter fuel payment . he do not know how many people be stick in the pension credit backlog . he do not know when they will hear about their claim . he do not know who have have help from their local council . he do not know how many people who lose their winter fuel payment have end up in hospital this winter . he and his Department have dodge or refuse to answer every single one of those question in recent week . will he commit to a full review of the winter fuel payment cut so that we can get those answer ? I will commit to fight every day to avoid a repeat of the exercise under the last government whereby pensioner poverty rise by 300 , 000 , have fall by 1 million under the last Labour Government . we will make sure that we publish detail of the take - up of pension credit by the end of February . People with Disabilities and long - term Health Conditions : work support what step she be take to support people with disability and long - term health condition into work . what step she be take to support people with disability and long - term health condition into work . what step she be take to support people with disability and long - term health condition into work . we will champion disabled people and those with long - term health condition . our " get Britain Working " plan will support many more who be fail by the last Government to enter and stay in work . we will devolve power to local area for a join - up work , health and skill offer . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; prior to my election , I represent disabled member on the national executive of Unison . there be many barrier that prevent disabled people and those with long - term health condition from not only enter but stay in the workplace , from a strict and punitive approach to attendance and sickness to a failure even to consider adaptation that make work possible . it be clear that employer have to be support to make high - quality work accessible to disabled people . what work be my right hon . friend therefore do to engage employer in make work a positive and constructive experience for disabled people ? I commend my hon . friend for her previous work . she raise a very important point . we have launch the " keep Britain Working " review , which be be lead by Sir Charlie Mayfield , the ex - chair of the John Lewis Partnership . it will look at exactly the point that my hon . friend raise : how to make workplace and the wide labour market more inclusive , because we know , and employer know , that that be good for business and good for disabled people . as we all know , the last Government be far too quick to write off people who want to work but who have health condition or be suffer with disability . many people in Halesowen tell I that they want to work , and with the right help and support , they can . this will also bring huge physical and mental health benefit . how will the Government reset our relationship with people with disability , who for far too long have not be give the support that they need , but have instead be demonise by the conservative party ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the manifesto on which he and I fight the election commit we to put the view and voice of disabled people at the heart of what we do . in the " get Britain work " White Paper , we announce the establishment of a disability employment panel to enable we to work with disabled people , ensure that we provide the necessary support and give they the chance that my hon . friend rightly call for . in 2019 , my close friend and constituent Jim be at his desk , work as a web developer , when out of the blue he feel a sudden pain . Jim be have a spinal stroke . he have never since be able to walk . the pain medication that Jim must take to manage his condition limit his ability to work , but sometimes he have unpredictable burst of productivity . however , Jim ' s benefit arrangement mean that the work that he could occasionally be able to do might result in sanction to his benefit . what step will the Minister take to ensure that Jim can get back into work ? my hon . friend ' s important point , which to some extent have already be raise , show how the health and disability benefit system need to be reform . disabled people should have the same right to work and the same opportunity and chance as everybody else . many disabled people like Jim want the chance to work , but they face barrier , include in the benefit system , that make it very difficult for they to do so . we be determined to change the system to get over those barrier . I be sure that the Minister appreciate the important role of learn disability nurse in maximise the potential of people with learn disability . will he therefore have a word with his Treasury colleague about the differential effect of the rise in national insurance contribution ? learn disability nurse who work directly for the NHS be exempt ; those who work for agency contract by the NHS be not exempt . that be an anomaly , and I would be grateful if the Minister consider talk to his colleague about it . I be sure that the right hon . Member will raise that concern with the appropriate colleague of mine . he be absolutely right to draw attention to the value of the work of learn disability nurse , whoever their employer be . we be determined that they should have well support to enable people with learn disability who want to work to do so . the experience of my constituent Julie from Heaviley highlight the unfairness of the employment and support allowance application process for those with progressive condition such as multiple sclerosis . she be assess by a physiotherapist who lack any expertise in neurological disorder ; she thereby receive inaccurate report that deny her vital financial support . what step be minister take to ensure fair and timely support for those with progressive condition that do not necessarily fit neatly into a box , as other disability or condition may ? we want to improve the assessment process , and there will be proposal in the Green Paper on how to do that . if the hon . Lady would like to drop I a line about this particular case , I will be happy to have a look and comment far . for 23 year , my constituent Timothy have attend Eastbourne ' s Linden Court day centre for people with learn disability . Timothy ' s mum , who be his sole carer , have speak about how damaging it would be if Conservative - run East Sussex county council decide later this month to close the centre . will the Minister join I in urge the county council to ditch this short - sighted cut , which would leave many Eastbournians and their family without the local provision they deserve ? I very much hope that people in Eastbourne will continue to get the support that , by the sound of it , have do a very good job for a very long time . I obviously do not know the detail of this case , but it be important that we not only maintain but improve support for disabled people . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I welcome the " keep Britain work " review but , accord to last year ' s DWP account , £ 4 . 2 billion of benefit be underpaid to claimant , and the claimant most affect be disabled people . what will the Government do to ensure that disabled people who may not be able to work get the money to which they be entitle ? it be very important that disabled people get the money to which they be entitle . there will always be people who be not work , and we need to make sure there be good support for they . as I say a moment ago , we will set out our proposal on improve the assessment process in the upcoming Green Paper , but we be also very interested in hear about the Select Committee ' s proposal . People live with disability in rural area such as Glastonbury and Somerton face many barrier to find work , include lack of opportunity , poor transport and high childcare cost . how will the Minister support individual live in rural area to overcome the barrier to employment and help they to improve their overall quality of life ? we will be do a lot to support disabled people into work and to remove the barrier that be too often in their way , as the hon . Lady rightly say . I have already refer to the disability employment panel we be set up . we want to work alongside disabled people to make sure that we get this right and remove the barrier . the Connect to work programme , which be be roll out over this year , will do a lot to help . however , if there be particular problem in the hon . Lady ' s area that she would like to draw to my attention , I will be very interested to hear about they . I call the shadow Minister . the medium report that people in No . 10 be tear their hair out in frustration at the DWP take so long to come up with welfare reform . we have already be wait seven month , and now we be tell it will be March before there be a Green Paper , and presumably there will be no actual legislation until the end of the year at the early — they will be totally bald in no . 10 by then ! give the constant rise in the welfare bill , what be the financial cost so far of labour ' s inactivity ? the inactivity bequeath to we by the previous Government have a huge cost . the shadow Minister may not have notice that , the week before last , a judicial review be lose on the previous Government ' s handling of the work capability assessment change . the judge find that the consultation be , frankly , dishonest — it do not tell people what the change entail — and be too rush . People do not have a chance to give their view . we will do this exercise properly . this spring , in the Green Paper , we will set out the full detail of what we propose , and there will be a very full consultation so that everyone have a chance to have their say . the answer to my question be £ 1 . 8 billion . that be the cost of labour ' s economic inactivity and its failure to reform welfare since the election . the sum be the same as the saving from cut the winter fuel payment plus the income from tax family farm . in opposition , Labour oppose impose condition on people claim incapacity benefit . do the Minister still rule that out , or will the Green Paper face reality and require people to take action , where they can , to address the health need that mean they be sign off work ? the Green Paper will face reality square on . it will set out a very full set of clear policy , it will be frank about what they entail and we will listen to people ' s view in response . the money that the hon . Gentleman refer to as have be forgo , will probably have be forgo as a result of the judicial review the week before last , which be because of the previous Government ' s failure in consultation . maternity and Paternity Pay what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of level of maternity and paternity pay . the Government keep the rate of benefit , state pension and statutory pay under regular review . my hon . friend will be aware that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions announce to Parliament on 30 October that , subject to parliamentary approval , parental pay will increase in line with the consumer price index at the rate of 1 . 7 % from April 2025 . the Government ' s upcoming review of parental leave entitlement be really important as the UK currently have among the bad paternity leave in Europe . recent research by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation highlight not just the growth benefit of great paternity leave entitlement but the benefit to workforce involvement , so will the Minister meet I and campaigner from the Dad Shift to ensure we be make the most of the opportunity to get people back into work ? we value the vital role that father and partner play in care for child and in support their partner . we recognise that parental leave and pay entitlement , such as pay paternity leave , play a key role in their ability to do that . my hon . friend be right to cite the plan parental leave review . that be be lead by colleague in the Department for Business and Trade , and I will write to they on his behalf to suggest a meeting . employer : economic Growth what step her Department plan to take with employer to help increase economic growth . what step her Department plan to take with employer to help increase economic growth . what step her Department plan to take with employer to help increase economic growth . to get Britain grow again , we have to get Britain work again , and support employer be critical to achieve that goal . that be why last week I announce an overhaul of how the DWP help business , include the introduction of a dedicated employer ' team in the DWP , ensure that there be single account manager for business , so they do not have to have multiple conversation with different jobcentre , and the expansion of the number of training programme tailor to employer ' individual need . we be work in partnership with business : that be how we all go for growth . the last Labour Government reduce child poverty by nearly half , from 3 million to 1 . 6 million , and legislate to eradicate child poverty by 2020 . instead , under the Conservatives , the number of child in relative poverty significantly increase between 2010 and 2023 . do the Secretary of State agree that work with employer to help people , particularly parent , into decent , well - pay job , be essential not only to grow our economy , but to reduce poverty , include child poverty ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that have more parent , include lone parent and second earner in couple , in well pay job be critical to tackle child poverty . there have be a big shift in the nature of poverty since our success during the last Labour Government , when we lift over 600 , 000 child out of poverty , as there be now more child grow up in poverty in a work household , so improve the parental employment rate be critical to drive down those number . Tu Mundo , or your World , be a grow independent business that recently open its third coffee shop , in Rhyl . Tu Mundo have a distinctive style , not just with the toucan motif that grace everything , include its teapot , but with its commitment to economic growth in the local area . in partnership with the local employability service , Working Denbighshire , Tu Mundo host work - start placement for those enter or re - enter the workplace , with several graduate go on to become permanent employee . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Tu Mundo and Working Denbighshire on that work ? do she agree that that be exactly the sort of partnership work that will bring fair economic growth across the UK ? yes . I would like to say a massive thank to Tu Mundo for all the work it be do . there be a lot of evidence that work placement or work experience be a really important way to encourage more people into work . last week , I visit B & M , the fast grow retailer in the country , to look at what it be do with short work experience placement , which be a form of " try before you buy " for the company and the employee . the placement have a huge success rate and B & M now recruit 85 % of its worker through the scheme . we want to continue such success in the future . apprenticeship , training and reskille in new energy technology will be essential to deliver growth in the hard - work Humber region . can the Secretary of State tell we more about the training programme that she mention , which will support business in expand opportunity in Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? I know that my hon . friend be passionate about help more people into work . youth unemployment in her constituency be almost twice the national average , so it be essential for her constituent that we sort this out . alongside work experience , we want to expand the number of sector - base work programme , which have tailor course for employer . we will also hold summit in three key growth area — construction , health and social care , and clean energy — to bring employer together with local area so that we can really go for growth . the ambition of the Secretary of State for an 80 % employment level be bind to be make more difficult by the finding in the impact assessment of the Employment Rights Bill , which foresee a £ 5 . 4 billion increase in cost and a 53 % increase in strike action , be it not ? Government member be ambitious for people right across the country . we do not accept the situation that we inherit from the conservative party , as the only country in the G7 whose employment rate have not go back to pre - pandemic level . create more good job in every part of the country and narrow the employment gap between different area be tough , but we believe that it be achievable , and it be no less than the british people deserve . on economic growth , what do the Secretary of State say to business in my constituency that fully support fair pay and national insurance contribution for employee , but whose ability to grow , create employment , and invest be be impact by the cumulative effect of the change ? I say that in order to put the public finance on a secure footing , we have to take difficult decision . I understand the pressure that business be under , but they know that if we do not balance the book , we can not grow in future . we be take action not just to put the public finance on a secure footing but to have a genuine programme to get Britain work again . we do not accept the situation that we inherit from the Conservatives , in which so many people be lock out , deny the right to work , and deny a good , well - pay job in every part of the country . Child Maintenance Service : Efficiency what step she be take to increase efficiency in the Child Maintenance Service . the CMS modernisation programme deliver increasingly effective and efficient service . the programme have transform customer interaction with the CMS , provide customer the choice to make contact digitally . those efficiency make it easy for customer to report change and non - payment , so CMS caseworker can focus on the collection of unpaid child maintenance . I have multiple casework example from constituent in Huntingdon who have be impact by CMS inefficiency , include incorrectly calculate arrear with no explanation of how the sum have be calculate , and failure to verify the location of father who be not provide financial support , with the CMS claim that address need to be independently verify but not conduct that verification itself . such case have result in consolatory payment from the CMS for maladministration and service delay . in all instance , my constituent have be frustrate by their inability to contact the CMS over the phone . in the quarter end September 2024 , 41 % of call to the Child Maintenance Service be not answer . what be the Government do to improve contact with the CMS by telephone ? I be very sorry to hear of those specific example . I will take away the point about telephone communication and come back to the hon . Gentleman , but it may be worth our have a broad conversation about his concern . I will happily meet he to discuss any of the specific of the case he cite . in response to a number inquiry that I have have from constituent over the last couple of month , will the Minister say whether reform to the Child Maintenance Service will include consideration of the pay parent ' s capital asset and voluntary pension payment when calculate the rate at which unpaid payment should be make ? my hon . friend raise an important point . he will be aware of the recent consultation on the future administration and operation of the Child Maintenance Service . I do not want to prejudge the decision that will follow as a result of that consultation , but I can tell he that we be consider the next step at present , and I will update he and the House in due course . child Poverty Strategy what progress her Department have make on develop a child poverty strategy . it be a terrible consequence of 14 year of conservative misrule that around 4 . 3 million of our child be grow up in poverty . that be why the child poverty taskforce ' s work to complete our strategy be urgent . Taskforce Ministers have meet six time and have have extensive engagement with people across the country , include external expert , local leader and child and their family live in poverty . accord to the end Child Poverty coalition , in 2022 - 23 the child poverty rate after housing cost in my constituency of Eastleigh be 21 % . analysis by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation project that child poverty in England will rise to 31 . 5 % by 2029 . every day without action push more child into hardship , and they can not wait for the Government ' s strategy to be publish . what urgent measure will the Government take now to prevent more child from grow up in poverty ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right : this issue be urgent . that be why in the Budget the Chancellor announce the fair repayment rate , which stop family have to deal with so much debt through the universal credit system , save family over £ 400 a year , but we know we have to go far . that be why , as I mention , Ministers be work hard to bring forward our child poverty strategy . I know the Government be work hard on develop their child poverty strategy , but what discussion be the Minister have with the Welsh Government to ensure that combine effort deliver the good for our child , wherever they live ? I regularly meet representative of the Welsh Government because while we strongly believe in devolution , we know that a partnership between Governments be the good way to protect our child from the terrible consequence of the poverty that the Conservatives leave they in . I be pleased that the Minister be update we with progress . do she believe the poverty strategy will be announce quickly enough for there to be change make in , for example , the spring or autumn statement , or be we look into next year ? please could she give an idea of the timeline ? I hope the hon . Lady will understand from the tone of what I say that this matter be urgent and that we be work quickly and will bring forward proposal as soon as we can . alarmingly , there have be talk of ruthless cut to welfare . that would be utterly devastating as any cut would push more family into poverty . we will not see a reduction to child poverty by economic growth alone ; it will require targeted policy action — something that the Trussell Trust and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation agree with in their essential guarantee . do Ministers have plan to change the basic rate of universal credit so that it reflect the cost of life ' s essential — food and household bill ? as I have say several time , we be work quickly to bring forward the detail of that plan . in fact , only last week we have a parliamentary engagement session so that colleague across the House could be bring up to speed on the detail of that work . I sit on the Opposition Benches and watch for 14 year as the Conservatives put our child into poverty . we will waste no time in deal with this problem . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . child in poverty in Torbay make up 23 % of our population but 100 % of our future . Barnardo ' s recently highlight that the most powerful tool in the Government ' s toolbox to tackle child poverty be end the two - child cap . only last week , the annual poverty report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation come to the same conclusion . when will the Minister come to that same conclusion and end the two - child cap ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for come along to our parliamentary engagement session last week , which I hope he agree be a productive update for everybody . as I just mention , I watch from the Opposition Benches as various policy , include the one he mention , be introduce . we can see their consequence all around we . we can not promise to do anything that we can not pay for , but we be determined to have a child poverty strategy that work . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) , like to say , the Department for Work and Pensions be the hr department of the Government ' s growth mission , yet we inherit a situation in which only one in six employer have ever use a jobcentre to recruit . that be not good enough , which be why I announce last week five step to put it right by overhaul what we do for employer . that include a new dedicated employer team that have already bring more than 30 company on board , include Swissport , Home Bargains and KFC . soon we will host summit with business in key growth sector such as construction and clean energy , as part of our plan to get Britain work and grow again . Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly be one of 15 WorkWell pilot region , which be a core element of the Government ' s " back to work " plan to reduce economic inactivity due to ill health . I invite the Secretary of State to visit Cornwall to see how WorkWell be already make a tangible difference in help those with health condition to start , stay and succeed in work , and to confirm that the spending review will provide the multi - year funding necessary to sustain and expand that vital service . I would love to visit . that be an important programme focus on keep people in work and get those who have recently leave back into work as soon as possible . in my hon . friend ' s area , WorkWell provide advice on workplace adjustment , access to physiotherapy , and employment advice and counselling , and be work closely with the voluntary sector and employer , back by £ 2 million - worth of funding . that be critical because , with more than 15 , 000 economically inactive people in his constituency , we must start turn that situation around . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last week , the right hon . Lady describe herself as the hr manager for the Government ' s growth plan , so can Liz from hr tell I which of her colleague should be fire for the addition of 47 , 000 people to the unemployment figure in December ? I be proud to say that I want to get Britain work again after we inherit a situation in which a record 2 . 8 million people be out of work due to health problem , because the Conservatives push the NHS to its knee and fail to have a proper plan to get people back into work . our mission be to get Britain work and grow again , and that be what our plan will deliver . wishful thinking be all very well , but let we talk about the fact . those 47 , 000 people probably spend Christmas worry about how they would pay the bill without a job , and they be now look for work in an employment market decimate by labour ' s job tax . how high do the right hon . Lady forecast unemployment will get under her government ? the hon . Lady want to talk about the fact . the fact be that we inherit a situation in which we will be spend £ 20 billion more on working - age , incapacity and disability benefit because of the mess her Government make , and in which there have be a doubling of the number of young people out of work due to health condition , so people be more likely to be out of work due to poor health in their 20 than in their 40 . our radical reform will give people the right to work and the support they need , and will get the benefit bill on a sustainable footing . last month , I bring together local leader from charity and other organisation to discuss how we can well tackle child poverty in Bracknell Forest . I welcome today ' s update on the progress of the child poverty taskforce . do the Minister agree that community leader be well place to shape the support need to tackle child poverty locally ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I be so pleased to hear about that work in Bracknell Forest . that be why the fourth part of our child poverty strategy be about local support . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and his constituent to ensure that strategy be a success . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be pleased to hear that labour councillor on Hull city council have vote to condemn the Government ' s shameful decision not to compensate WASPI woman . have that give the Minister pause for thought ? I recognise the strength of feeling on this issue right across the House . we carefully consider the ombudsman ' s report , but as the hon . member know , we do not think it be fair to provide compensation cost up to £ 10 billion when 90 % of affected pensioner know that the state pension age be rise , and the evidence show that letter be send early would have make little difference . this week mark time to talk Day , the Mind campaign to destigmatise talk about mental health . in light of this , will the Secretary of State join I in call for employer up and down the country to take part in Time to talk Day and outline what more could be do to end mental health stigma in the workplace ? I absolutely will . as my hon . friend know , the Government have launch the " keep Britain Working " review lead by Charlie Mayfield , the former chair of John Lewis Partnership . he be do precisely that — look at how we can well support employer to help keep people in work and get they back to work . mental health be a real concern for I , with so many young people not in education , employment or training , primarily drive by mental health problem . this be an issue we have get to sort , because it be terrible for they and for their future , and terrible for the economy too . I call Alison Bennett . thank you , Mr Speaker . " we ' re save the government million . " those be the word of Stephanie from Burgess Hill , a full - time carer for her 89 - year - old mum . with carer ' s allowance not even cover Stephanie ' s petrol cost , what assessment have be make of the adequacy of carer ' s allowance in meet the true cost of care ? the hon . Member will know that we introduce the big ever increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance for those who be able to combine some work with caring . we be determined that carer should get the support they need — there be a premium in universal credit as well , for example — but of course , we will keep all these matter under review . as we have hear today , the Government have recently launch their " keep Britain Working " review . development in treatment for incurable cancer such as the one I have mean that many of we with incurable cancer might live , and live reasonably well , for many year . how do the Government plan to engage with people with incurable cancer as part of that review , to ensure we be enable to continue to thrive in our career and our workplace ? I commend the resilience of my hon . friend . before Christmas , I speak at a report launch with the charity work with Cancer , which focus on exactly the issue she have raise . she be right : employer have a key role in support people with cancer to continue to thrive in work , and the " keep Britain Working " review will engage with people with live experience as well as employer . it be now nine year since the Scotland Act 2016 transfer a swathe of welfare power to the Scottish Government . be Ministers in a position to give a finite date by which the Scottish Government will actually have take on all those power and responsibility ? that be still not the case . as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say , a number of benefit be currently deliver under agency agreement . it be very much for the Scottish Government to broker a conversation with we about either extend those agreement or bring they to an early conclusion . I be yet to have any such conversation , but should I have any , I will be very happy to let he know . many people with mental health condition rely heavily on personal independence payment so that they can continue in work and remain active in their community . can the Minister provide advice to the many constituent of mine who have contact I terrify by the rumour that the Government be about to scrap this vital support for those who already have mental health issue ? my hon . friend be right that there have be a particularly big increase in mental health problem among young people . give what the last Government do , I can well understand people be worried . we will continue to support people with mental health problem in the health and disability benefit system . the proposal for reform we will bring forward in the spring will make sure the system be fit for purpose and fair to the taxpayer , and they will deliver the support in work that people such as my hon . friend ' s constituent need . the Child Poverty Action Group have report that 4 . 3 million child in the UK be live in poverty . in a classroom of 30 , that be nine child live in poverty . give that the Government have rule out scrap the two - child benefit cap , will the Minister commit to publish measurable target for reduce child poverty during this Parliament ? as I have already mention in a number of response , we understand the scale and seriousness of the problem the hon . member mention . we have already publish the term of reference for the child poverty taskforce , and we will continue to keep the House update as we move forward , give the seriousness of the issue . on Friday last week , we hold our first neet — those not in education , employment or training — and youth opportunity summit in Peterborough , bring together Peterborough college , Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough and employer to see how we can tackle our youth unemployment problem . will the Secretary of State commit to work far with place such as Peterborough to ensure we can deliver decent apprenticeship and more opportunity for young people who need they ? yes , I do commit to that , and I thank my hon . friend for his tireless campaign on the issue . with almost 1 , 000 young people unemployed in his constituency , or almost one in 10 , I know what an important issue it be . his area be part of one of our youth guarantee trailblazer , mean that every young person be earn or learn . I commit that the whole Government will continue to work with he and partner in his constituency to make sure that no young person be leave behind . Jamie from my constituency be a full - time carer , but he be also in full - time education and be therefore not entitle to carer ' s allowance . will the Government confirm that they will extend car ' s allowance to those in full - time education ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . I recently meet a very impressive group of young people who have manage to navigate their way through education while also have very heavy caring responsibility . we be work closely with the Department for Education , the Department of Health and Social Care , the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute to make sure that we be provide the support young carer need . my constituent Darren , an unpaid carer , be wrongly refuse a refund for prescription charge when move from income support to universal credit . do my right hon . friend agree with I that there should be no gap in support in such circumstance ? yes , I do agree with my hon . friend , and I be grateful to he for highlight that case . we have ask the Department for Health and Social Care to review its decision in that case — I hope with a positive outcome . the Minister will have hear several reference to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report this afternoon . the report demonstrate not only that extreme poverty be rise , but that the only part of these island where child poverty will fall in the next four year be Scotland . be it not time that the Westminster Government take a leaf out of the Scottish Government ' s book ? I think it be fair to say that we have spend a great deal of time talk to people from all part of the United Kingdom , and we will continue to do so , because only a strategy that cover all of the UK will be a success . what assessment have the Minister make of recent trend in the level of fraud in the welfare system , because every £ 1 lose to fraud be £ 1 that should have go to our school , to our hospital or on the future of our resident ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the assessment I have make be of a trend that be up , up , up after 14 year of the conservative party fail to act . we lose £ 9 . 7 billion in fraud and error in the Department for Work and Pensions last year , and we have lose £ 35 billion since the pandemic . that be too much , which be why I hope colleague will support the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill on Second reading later . hundred of farmer and other small business owner in Westmorland who earn less than the minimum wage be not eligible for universal credit because of the failure of that system to take account of variability of income . will the Minister look to put that right so that we can support the people who support we ? we be commit in our manifesto to a review of universal credit and I expect to set out shortly the detail of how that review will go forward . I will be very happy to look at the particular case the hon . Gentleman raise in the course of the review . we all know that the good route out of poverty be through well - pay work , but for family in my constituency , where a third of child grow up in poverty , low - pay and insecure job be a massive barrier . what will the Department do to help more family back into work and to alleviate poverty for child grow up in Southampton Itchen ? my hon . friend eloquently make the case for our " make work pay " reform . this be not just about help our economy grow , it be also about protect people from poverty . in all we do to change jobcentre , we want to support people into good , sustainable , well - pay work because that be the good way out of poverty . a constituent come to see I last week who have not eat for four day . her state pension have increase in line with the triple lock but this take she over the threshold for pension credit , which then take away her entitlement to a range of other benefit include the winter fuel allowance . what be the Government do to ensure people do not experience such a significant cliff edge ? I thank the hon . member for raise that case and I would be happy to meet she to go into a bit more detail . that be exactly why we make sure the pension credit threshold rise in line with the basic state pension through the triple lock . during covid , assessment for personal independence payment be move either online or to over the phone . today less than 5 % of those assessment have return to face - to - face , so what assessment have Ministers make of that change and be there any link with the rise in fraud ? my hon . friend be right to identify that in the PIP space the Department have introduce a blend of phone , video and face - to - face assessment with the aim of deliver a more efficient and user - centre service . since telephone and video assessment have be introduce there have be no evidence to suggest that these delivery channel be less effective than face - to - face assessment in detect fraudulent claim . in 2023 - 24 , PIP overpayment account for just 0 . 4 % of the DWP ' s overall spend on PIP but I assure my hon . friend we will keep a close eye on that . Marie Curie research have find that 15 % of the three quarter of a million end - of - life carer be live below the poverty line , rise to 22 % a year after bereavement . give these statistic , will the Minister consider extend the time that carer can claim carer ' s allowance from two month to six month after bereavement ? we keep these matter under review . I have not look at that particular proposal before , but if the hon . Gentleman would like to drop I a line I will certainly give it a careful look . final question , Dame Meg Hillier . I applaud the Front - Bench team for its energy in drive the child poverty taskforce , but every decision have consequence and cost . will the Minister outline the cost of some of the process she be look at change , particularly the cost of lift the two - child cap , and if she do not have the figure to hand will she write to I ? I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Treasury Committee for all her work on this issue . I will happily engage with she through correspondence on the matter . AstraZeneca ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology if he will make a statement on AstraZeneca . as the large company list on the London Stock Exchange , employ more than 10 , 000 people and invest about £ 2 . 5 billion every year in the UK , AstraZeneca be a close and value partner to this Government and be critical to the UK ' s thrive life science sector . we see that in the covid - 19 pandemic , when AstraZeneca partner with the University of Oxford to create a safe and effective vaccine that be manufacture and distribute around the world , save million of life . this type of partnership for the prevention of illness be critical to achieve the Government ' s ambition of reduce the burden on the NHS . astrazeneca ' s decision not to invest in Speke , Liverpool be therefore deeply disappointing and follow intensive work and collaboration between the Government and the company . this collaboration on Speke date back to 2020 and lead to an announcement at the spring Budget 2024 when AstraZeneca set out its intention to invest £ 450 million into its flu vaccine manufacturing facility . to secure that investment , the previous Chancellor provide assurance of his Majesty ' s Government support , value at around £ 90 million , subject to successful completion of due diligence . that support be base on his Majesty ' s Government ' s initial assessment of figure provide by the company . both the previous Government and this Government have always make clear that full due diligence would be require before a final Government offer could be confirm . since the spring Budget , AstraZeneca confirm a significant change in the composition of its propose investment , result in a small level of research and development be conduct in the UK . as the shadow Minister would expect , that change in AstraZeneca ' s UK investment result in a corresponding change in Government support . our revised Government offer seek to ensure value for money for the taxpayer and follow due diligence of the investment put forward by AstraZeneca . we remain closely engage with AstraZeneca as we develop our new industrial strategy , build a health system fit for the future and drive up economic growth . in the spring , the Government will release our industrial strategy , contain a comprehensive plan for grow the life science sector . that will build on the significant momentum generate by the plan for growth , include delivery of the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , as well as the Budget announcement of the life science innovative manufacturing fund , the suite of inward investment announce at the international investment summit and the strategic partnership announce with Oxford Nanopore and Eli Lilly . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . just five day ago , in another speech about growth design to divert attention from the total lack of growth cause by Labour ' s high taxis and anti - business approach , the Chancellor specifically praise AstraZeneca : she know that the last Conservative Government have successfully negotiate a deal for Britain ' s big public company to invest £ 450 million into Britain ' s economy . under the conservative deal , AstraZeneca would have expand its flu vaccine factory on Merseyside , create new job , improve the UK ' s pandemic preparedness and send a clear message to the world that Britain ' s life science sector be open for business . instead , Labour have cut the funding that we agree and have impose a national insurance job tax . that have destroy the business case for expand the factory and the deal be now off . will the Minister explain why the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology fail to stand up to the Chancellor when she cut his funding , destroy the deal and hand high - quality job and investment to our competitor ? in the past 12 month , AstraZeneca have commit to invest more than £ 1 billion in Singapore , nearly £ 3 billion in the US and more than £ 450 million in Canada . it could have invest £ 450 million in our country , too , so what be the Government do to bring back the job and investment that they have just turn away ? by last July , all that be require be for Labour to confirm that it would proceed with our deal . AstraZeneca write to the Chancellor and the Science Secretary on 9 July , but receive no reply . it write to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade in early July too , but he fob it off . the company do not receive its answer until last October . by then , it be too late to deliver the project and now the deal be dead . will the Minister and the Science Secretary write to the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) , offer to appear before her Committee to explain what go wrong and how such failure can be avoid in the future ? deliver this deal secure by the Conservatives be a big test of Labour ' s economic credibility , and it have fail . in the same week that it talk about growth , it have botch a deal that be vital to our economy . labour promise growth , but deliver failure and let Britain down again . what utter nonsense . we endure 14 year of growth that even the shadow Minister ' s own Back Benchers use to describe as anaemic and feeble . average growth under Tory Governments be 1 . 2 % ; average growth under Labour Governments be 2 . 4 % . we be far more likely to secure growth in the british economy under a Labour Government . the shadow Minister simply do not listen to what I have to say . the Conservatives sit on this so - call deal with AstraZeneca for four year . the process start in 2020 , and it be interesting what be announce to the House and what be actually announce in the paperwork . in the House , the then Chancellor say that AstraZeneca have announce plan to invest to " fund the building of a vaccine manufacture hub in Speke in Liverpool . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 845 . ] he do not make any mention in the Chamber of the money that be need from his Department to be able to pay for it . the paperwork that attend that announcement state : " AstraZeneca ' s investment decision be contingent upon mutual agreement with the UK Government and third party , and successful completion of regulatory process . " that be absolutely typical of the previous government : they think that when they have announce something it have come to pass , but due diligence be need to ensure the good possible financial advantage for the british taxpayer . we have see clearly that AstraZeneca ' s original intention last year be to deliver £ 150 million - worth of r & D , but then it decide to cut that to something like £ 90 million - worth . that be its decision , base on its own investment decision , and we as a Government have to assess whether £ 90 million from the UK — as supposedly promise by the previous Chancellor — be the right amount of money to put into the pot , or whether it be well to offer slightly less . unfortunately , at the end of that process AstraZeneca decide that it would not proceed . let I make it absolutely clear to the hon . member that this be the good country in the world in which to invest in the private sector . some £ 63 billion of investment be secure at the growth summit last year , and £ 14 billion — [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Secretary of State for Wales , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , keep push it a little bit . I think we should hear no more of that . thank you , Mr Speaker . and £ 14 billion be secure follow the announcement of our artificial intelligence opportunity plan . we have cut the rate of corporation tax to 25 % , which be the low in the G7 . we be create a pension mega - fund to be able to invest far . accord to PricewaterhouseCoopers ' last ceo survey , we be , for the first time ever , the second - good place in the world to invest in the Government , and that be because we have a Labour Government , not a Conservative reject . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . the UK Government be commit to grow the economy through increase R & D and advanced manufacturing . AstraZeneca tell we that it be commit to invest in the UK , which be where it be headquarter and where one of its large customer — the NHS — be base . it be like hear that two people be madly in love with each other , yet the wedding be off . I look forward to the Minister of State for Science explain the background to this to the Select Committee when he appear before we next week . in the meantime , will the Minister confirm that the UK be commit to incentivise R & D investment ? will he set out the mix of R & D and manufacturing investment agree to by AstraZeneca under the last government , and to which it be commit when it drop the deal ? finally , the deal , as well as grow the economy , would have make our pandemic supply chain more resilient by reduce our dependence on mrna vaccine . will he set out how he intend to address that ? it be good to hear from the Chair of the Select Committee . I want to make it absolutely clear that AstraZeneca be not leave — people be not lose their job because of this decision . there be still 10 , 000 people employ by AstraZeneca in the UK and , for that matter , it be proceed with its nasal - base flu vaccine for child , just in a different way . all of that be important . my hon . Friend ask about the precise detail of the R & D mix that be part of the investment . as I say , it be to have be £ 150 million of investment . AstraZeneca decide to cut that to £ 90 million , which be why the contribution that the previous Chancellor have suggest of £ 90 million into that pot simply do not add up for the UK taxpayer , which be why we come to that set of decision . however , she be absolutely right that we be fundamentally committed to the life science sector for the saving of life , for make sure that we have an nhs that can really deliver for people , and because we want to have valuable job that we do well in this country than anywhere else in the world . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this news make for yet another disappointing day for the UK ' s investment landscape . we could be a global leader in innovation , but ever since the previous Conservative Government ' s scrapping of the industrial strategy business have be leave with uncertainty . the life science sector be vital not just for economic growth , but for our health and technological innovation . it contribute over £ 43 billion to the UK economy , support thousand of highly skilled job and drive breakthrough in medicine and healthcare , yet in conversation that I have have with business , I have hear time and again how the UK ' s fragmented approach to investment be hold they back . that be why I have highlight those concern in previous question to the Secretary of State . the Government have promise to publish " Invest 2035 " this spring , but right now company still have no detail on what support will be available and when . without urgent action , we risk more world - lead firm follow AstraZeneca ' s lead and take their investment elsewhere . will the Minister please confirm exactly when the final Invest 2035 strategy will be publish ? the Government say that the decision be base on value for money , so will the Minister and the Secretary of State also publish the impact assessment , so that we can see for ourselves ? I be afraid that I will have to write to the hon . Lady on that last question , as I be not sure precisely where we be with an impact assessment . she be absolutely right that the UK ' s life science sector generate something like £ 108 billion in turnover in the financial year end 2022 — a sharp 13 % increase on the previous year . we want to build on that . the sector have see year - on - year growth since the financial year end 2015 , and turnover be now 40 % high than in the financial year end 2022 . we be keen to publish , as part of our industrial strategy , our precise plan for the financial service sector . we say that will be in the spring — it certainly still feel like winter in the Rhondda at the weekend , so I be afraid she will have to wait until spring have spring . AstraZeneca be a key partner in the Liverpool city region ' s life science innovation zone , as be Maghull health park in my constituency , with its research and development plan . will my hon . friend confirm that the Government will engage with partner in the city region , include the University of Liverpool , the metro mayor Steve Rotheram , council leader and the region ' s mps , to try to recover ground on this deal , which will add to the success we have already see with AstraZeneca in the city region and across the country ? regional mayor have an important role to play in help bring investment into key area . I be happy to ensure that the meeting that my hon . friend have ask for take place . this have to be a joint venture between everyone . I want to underline that it be not the case that AstraZeneca be leave the United Kingdom , or that it do not have confidence in the United Kingdom , because it clearly do — it invest more than £ 2 . 5 billion every year into the UK economy . it be a key partner of the UK and will continue to be so . what a shame the Minister have choose to substitute aggression for what should be regret for what be , whichever way he paint it , obviously a terrible failure of negotiation . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for life science , and I can tell the House that this be a terrible blow not just for Speke and Liverpool — the city of my birth — but for our vaccination development environment generally . the lack of this production facility mean that there will be no pull for vaccination development in the UK and the various technology that come with it . what will he do to replace that ? of course we feel regretful . we would have prefer to get this over the line but that be not possible , in large measure because AstraZeneca decide that it do not add up in whatever particular way for it . the right hon . Gentleman make one very good point : we want a manufacturing provision in the country , and my colleague Lord Vallance be work on that very closely with the sector . Friday ' s announcement be deeply disappointing . the Liverpool city region be home to one of Europe ' s large pharma cluster . the Government be prepared to put million into the project with AstraZeneca , which it have now walk away from . be that money still on the table for other viable life science project in our region ? will the Government commit to meet our metro mayor , Steve Rotheram , to discuss that far ? that be the clever bid for finance that I have ever hear , so my hon . friend get an award for that . she be right that we stand ready at any point to assist key investment of this nature , especially in the life science sector . the difference between the amount of money that be theoretically make available by the previous Government and the amount that we be prepared to put forward be remarkably small . the issue be how to ensure that similar investment get over the line . someone from the Department will meet Steve Rotheram . how do lose £ 450 million of investment on Merseyside and into the wide north - west area equate with the Chancellor ' s state priority of economic growth ? the right hon . Lady put it in a particular way , but it be not a way that be consonant with the fact . the fact be that this deal have not be sign or get over the line by the previous Government , who , as I have say , would quite often announce thing and not actually deliver in the end . in spring 2024 , the then Chancellor make it very clear in the document that accompany the Budget that all of this be contingent — his word , not mine — on due diligence . the then Government have not yet do the due diligence . More than 5 , 000 people be employ at AstraZeneca ' s Macclesfield campus , produce world - class medicine and contribute £ 1 . 8 billion in GVA and 1 % of total UK export . AstraZeneca have confirm to I that the Speke decision do not impact Macclesfield , a site that it be commit to . will the Minister confirm that the Government be commit to work with AZ so it continue to have a bright future in Macclesfield ? yes , 100 % . I know that my hon . friend have visit AstraZeneca and speak to it many time . he be absolutely right to note that there be , I think , 4 , 000 work at the Macclesfield site , and will continue to do so . I be sure that AstraZeneca have a very strong future in Macclesfield . nothing in this decision change that one iota . we in this House often underestimate how many option company such as AstraZeneca have on where to invest . the Minister be not know for take no as an answer , so can I urge he to continue to make the case for this investment , be flexible on VFM and keep fight for this specific deal ? not necessarily for this specific deal , but certainly for a deal with AstraZeneca , yes . astrazeneca ' s decision to pull its £ 450 million investment in the Speke manufacture plant be a blow for the creation of job across the city region , include in my constituency . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) for her tireless effort in try to get this deal over the line . will the Minister join I in recognise the brilliant work of the scientist at the facility , and will he meet I and colleague to explain how he can guarantee investment in R & D in the city region go forward ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend know , as she know , although I think it would probably be more useful for she if she be to meet Lord Vallance , who be the Minister for life science . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; we would of course much prefer this investment to go ahead and to have be able to get this deal over the line . however , it have not be possible , and we now have to look at different way of ensure that we strengthen the relationship with AstraZeneca . however , I would point to other investment that have be make in recent month , include in life science , to quite significant effect . the Financial Times report that , during its negotiation with the Government , AstraZeneca raise concern about the vaccine plant , but also about the rejection of one of its breast cancer drug and the drug pricing mechanism . do the Minister agree that AstraZeneca ' s rejection of his Government ' s final offer be not the only concern issue for our biopharma industry , and will he assure I that he be raise issue around the regulatory and reimbursement process with the Health Secretary and the Treasury as barrier to growth in a sector already struggle with post - brexit red tape ? the hon . Lady ' s first point be on the voluntary scheme for brand medicine pricing and access , which be reduce to an acronym that be not really an acronym : VPAG . this be , as it say on the tin , a voluntary agreement between Government , the pharmaceutical industry and the NHS , which be design specifically to ensure that we protect the NHS ' s medicine budget . it be voluntary , and AstraZeneca have always be a party to it on a voluntary basis . I be not sure that be the problem the hon . Lady think it be — although , if she have further evidence , I would be happy to speak to she . I think she be also refer to the rejection by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence of a breast cancer drug . this be the first time in six year that a breast cancer drug have be reject by NICE , and it be obviously concern for everybody who want to be able to use these drug . however , we have an independent and much - respect system in the UK . I stand by that independence ; I be not go to undermine it . may I say in the gentlest possible way to my hon . friend the Minister that lose investment in Merseyside and the north - west be not compensate for by investment in the Oxford - Cambridge corridor , particularly as some year ago we lose Diamond Light Source from Daresbury ? I would also like to ask he a question on a deep issue beyond the normal party political dance : it ' s their fault . it ' s not , or whatever . when Kate Bingham , the heroine of covid and develop vaccine , finish she make excoriate comment about our civil servant and their ability to understand science and biological science . what be the Minister do to improve that situation , so that distinguish people like Kate Bingham do not say that official in the civil service treat this huge industry with suspicion and contempt ? if I might just refer to the first comment first , I be the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore , so I fully understand that investment in one part of the country be obviously great for that part of the country , but it do not necessarily mean that every part of the country be rise with everybody else . try to make sure that economic investment spread across the whole of the United Kingdom , include in the north - west , the north - east and in the south Wales valley , be a really important part of our historic mission . on my hon . friend ' s other point , AstraZeneca complain about the length of time all of this have take . as I say , it start in 2020 and it be only in 2024 that the first announcement be make — as I understand it , by a text message from the then Chancellor of the Exchequer to the chief executive of AstraZeneca . we might need to learn well way of inform our decision about science . do the Government ' s rise in national insurance contribution and the over £ 400 , 000 a year extra that AstraZeneca would have need to pay for the site contribute to its decision to withdraw ? no . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on vulnerable group to pandemic . More than 1 . 2 million clinically vulnerable people be still shield from covid because their mrna vaccine do not provide efficient protection for immunosuppressed people . will my hon . friend set out how the Department be put the UK at the forefront of international R & D in life science to support those very vulnerable people ? not only have we set aside £ 520 million precisely to be able to invest in the life science industry with an innovation fund , we be very keen to work with specific business to understand how they can make more secure , long - term investment . the single most important thing for most people make an investment in the UK be whether they believe there be political , fiscal and financial stability in the UK . that be what we be absolutely determined to deliver . my hon . friend make a very good point about those who be immunosuppresse for all sort of different reason , whether their medication or a condition . I will take that point back to the Department . the Chancellor say that economic growth be the most important thing and this be an opportunity to get some of that economic growth . this be an opportunity to get something over the line and the UK Government fail to deliver it . how can the House and the public trust anything the UK Government say ? how can they say that this be the found mission if they then fail to deliver for a region that could really do with that economic growth ? the thing be that spend taxpayer ' money have to be prove to be good value for money . that be why , whenever we be make an investment such as this , we have to make sure it deliver more return on investment than £ 1 for £ 1 . when AstraZeneca make the decision to cut the R & D part of its budget from £ 150 million to £ 90 million , it make sense for the UK Government to look again at the amount of money we could legitimately put in on behalf of the taxpayer . if the hon . Lady have be in my place , I think she would have make exactly the same decision . do the Minister agree that the Chancellor ' s announcement last week of investment in the Oxford - Cambridge corridor show very clearly that the Government see a bright future for life science in the United Kingdom , and will he forgive I for give a brief plug to a post - war new town — my constituency of Harlow — which would very much like to be part of that future ? there be all sort of bid come in now , none of which I be in charge of , but we have see significant add investment in the UK since the autumn . for instance , Iberdrola be double its investment through Scottish Power from £ 12 billion to £ 24 billion over the next four year , and Blackstone have confirm a £ 10 billion investment in Blyth in Northumberland . what be essential , however , be for we to ensure that that investment stretch across the UK , that we have the skill we need in order to deliver those investment , and that we have the economic structure in place to enable they to remain , because they be long - term investment , not just short - term one . also , sometimes , we have to tackle the over - regulation that exist in some element of the economy , particularly in relation to planning , so that we can get down to make the decision that the Tories should have make for 14 year . the chief scientific officer have previously state the importance of this investment in the UK ' s pandemic preparedness . in the light of the announcement , what assessment have the Minister make of the impact on the UK ' s ability to respond to future pandemic ? it be not entirely dependent on our AstraZeneca programme , and indeed , as I have already point out , the piece of work in which it be intend to invest — I hope I will get the science right — be change the way in which it would create the nasal flu vaccine for child from an egg - base to a cell - base system . it have now decide not to do that , but to stick to the egg - base system . I think that if the chief scientific adviser or the chief medical officer have anything on which to update the House , he and / or she will do so . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) despite AstraZeneca ' s decision , the UK biotech industry almost double last year to £ 3 . 4 billion , but it be concentrate in just a few company . will the Minister commit to look at some of the trial research rule to enable small company to work well with NHS trust so that start - up and local firm can prosper ? my hon . friend be right : not only do we need to enable small company to start up , but we need to enable they to grow to scale . otherwise , the danger be that we develop the good idea , someone else end up buy the intellectual property , and all the value disappear out the UK ' s back door . when I meet the husband - and - wife team who run BioNtech — they be amazing , not least in respect of some of the work they have do in develop immunotherapy , which be probably the stuff that save my life when I have stage 4 cancer — they speak warmly and glowingly about all the work that they want to do in the UK , alongside the work of AstraZeneca . as my hon . Friend say , we need to get small company set up , to grow they , and to enable they to be world leader like AstraZeneca . investment in highly pay industry produce good - quality research and development , and the spin - off from that , be , of course , important to the economy and to long - term growth . I agree with the Minister that when it come to use public money we have to be careful about how it be spend , and not just throw it at a company because it have threaten to walk away from investment . in fact , I should have think that those on the Opposition Front Bench would be quite happy to hear the Minister talk about the proper use of public finance like a prudent Conservative Minister . my question , however , be this . although due diligence have to be do , and it may well have be assess that this be not a good use of public money , be the investment lose because of a lack of communication between the Government and the company during the assessment process , when perhaps the company could have be convince that it could proceed , even with less support ? I will take support from wherever I can get it , so I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . it be a very simple point that when the Government invest in business of whatever kind , we have to make sure that we get value for money for the taxpayer , even when there be a very large cheque on the table . AstraZeneca decide to change the structure of its research and development , which be one of the reason why we have to change the amount of money that we be prepared to put in , but the right hon . Gentleman ' s other point be very good and well make . alongside other member represent Milton Keynes , I attend the Chancellor ' s speech last Wednesday and speak to many company , include those from the life science sector . there be two really important point that they want to make , after be reasonably pleased with what they hear from the Chancellor . the first be about the importance of talk up our world - lead university , after the previous Government continually talk they down . will the Minister commit that this Government will continue to sell our world - lead university , include Oxford and Cambridge , on the world stage ? the second point that company want to make be that invest in life science right across the country require a successful Oxford - Cambridge arc . will the Minister commit to do whatever it take to make the entire corridor successful , include by get a devolution deal for the midland and speak to his colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that that happen ? yes , and I agree with everything my hon . Friend say . the Oxford - Cambridge corridor be really important . read the newspaper over the weekend , I be intrigue by how many conservative commentator keep on say , " what I don ' t understand be why the Conservatives didn ' t do this over the last 14 year . " it be not enough simply to build the Oxford - Cambridge corridor ; we need to make sure that we build on creative and scientific innovation at all our university in the United Kingdom , and not just at Oxford and Cambridge . we receive terrible news from AstraZeneca over the weekend . it be business across the country , such as those in my constituency of Broxbourne , that create economic growth , not the Government . the Government have increase red tape and employer ' s national insurance contribution . can the Minister outline how he be promote business and encourage they to invest in the United Kingdom ? as I have already say , we have £ 63 billion of investment at the summit before Christmas , and we have have £ 14 billion of investment since Christmas . I have a specific responsibility for datum in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , and the number of datum centre invest in the UK be significant . we now have 500 , which put we third after the United States of America and Germany . we be determined to grow the economy . the hon . Gentleman be sort of right to say that it be the private sector that create growth , but it be also true to say that the Government contribute to growth . for instance , if we manage to build 1 . 5 million additional home in the UK , that will contribute to growth . if the Conservatives do not believe that , they be live in cloud cuckoo land . the wide context of the issue before we today be that this country be at the forefront of the global life science sector , of which there be cluster across the UK . in my constituency of Stevenage , which be the first post - war new town in the Oxford - Cambridge corridor , we have GlaxoSmithKline , Autolus , and the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult . will my hon . Friend tell the House how this Government be commit to spread growth in the life science sector across the whole country , and thank all our hard - work scientist ? that be precisely the job that Lord Vallance be engage in . we be try to make sure that our research and development budget across the whole of the UK be spend in a way that deliver economic growth and investment in company that be start - up , but also in one that need to scale up . we be also work with the Department for Education to make sure that we have the skill that we need in the UK — not just to come up with a good scientific idea , but to develop entrepreneurialism and to be able to take an idea to market and make a living out of it . I be grateful to the Minister for provide some insight into the way in which the Government and their Ministers look on economic matter . do he appreciate that investment per capita in R & D be very much great in America than in this country ? there be now a range of incentive at federal and state level that will act as a draw to life science , notwithstanding what have happen in Washington over the past few day . what be there to tie a company such as AstraZeneca to this country ? why would it not look more favourably on America as a destination of choice ? to be honest , that sound like a bid to send AstraZeneca to the United States of America . I do not think that be what hon . member of this House should be do ; I think they should be stand up for the UK as the good place for AstraZeneca to invest . [ interruption . ] there be no point in point at I like a child : that do nobody any favour . the honest truth be that AstraZeneca be and will remain one of the big investor in the UK economy . no matter how the Minister try to dress it up , this be a blow to the UK economy , to life science and to manufacturing . what message about the Government ' s lack of support for manufacturing do this decision send to global investor and , importantly , to the local job market ? it do not send any kind of message like that . the point be that in the UK we have secure dramatic amount of additional investment since the general election . what be interesting be that all the Conservative Members be praise something that be never deliver by the previous government ; it be only announce . it be like so many part of the DSIT budget that I discover when I become a Minister . theoretically , the previous Government have say that they be do this , that and the other , but they have not actually set aside a single penny , because they have not do a proper comprehensive spending review for many , many year . that be precisely the black hole that we have have to fill . give the protectionist policy of US President Trump , can the Minister confirm how he will seize the opportunity to make the UK the good place for pharmaceutical investment in the world ? some of what I have already point out be really important . we have already say that we will have the low corporation tax rate in the G7 , at 25 % , and we be stick with that . we have make sure that we be invest in our public service so that people can have a guarantee of proper public service in this country . one thing that affect many business in this country — I have hear it repeatedly — be that if we have 7 million people on NHS waiting list , we will not get people back into work . I would argue that the public sector and the private sector both have a role to play in enable each other to flourish . it be not a question of " private sector good , public sector bad , " or the other way around ; the two have to work hand in hand . for all the virtue of AstraZeneca , let we not forget that thousand of people suffer serious injury or death as a result of have the AstraZeneca covid - 19 vaccine . why , then , be the Government continue to waste taxpayer ' money on indemnify AstraZeneca against claim for civil liability bring by those victim of AstraZeneca vaccine ? I think the hon . Gentleman need to speak to the hon . member who speak early — oh , he ' s leave . I actually believe that the vaccine save life ; I do not believe that they lose people their life . I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman and I will never be unite on that front . a pattern be form around this not so new Government ' s ability to negotiate effectively , from their disastrous approach to Chagos to the terrible deal with train union and this late debacle with AstraZeneca . be it fair to say that when this Labour Government negotiate , Britain lose out ? it be almost sad , sometimes . I just wish the hon . Member have be here for the last 14 year . I wish he have be here when we have endless strike in every single part of every Department and we could not get the NHS waiting list deal with because we be not pay our nurse and our doctor properly . the first thing that we do be a deal to get they back to work . the hon . Member think that somehow or other that be buy off the trade union . it be not . it be make sure that the people who work in our public service be properly reward , get back to work and get this country back on its foot . the Minister say that the number no long add up for AstraZeneca , but in response to the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , he say that employer national insurance contribution increase be not a factor . how can both those thing be right ? when I speak to the local science sector and to business like Labcorp in my constituency , they say that employer nic have a massive impact . can the Minister really say in all honesty that he do not think that this Government ' s change to employer nic have an impact on the deal ? first , let I clear up a point about national insurance contribution . I know that the conservative party like to bang on about they , but many people do not know that 50 % of business and organisation in the UK will pay either exactly the same amount of national insurance or less . that fact be not often , if ever , repeat by Conservative Members . secondly , the hon . Gentleman ask whether AstraZeneca have cite national insurance contribution as a reason for withdraw . it have not , so far as I be aware . I would not tell the House anything that I do not believe to be true . I thank the Minister for his answer , and I have a respectful question . the axiom " it take money to make money " be a foundational policy for many business but , for some of we in this place , another phrase come to mind : " penny wise and pound foolish . " save a little now may help a lot in the future , so will the Minister kindly and respectfully explain how the Government intend to encourage long - term , renewable investment so that business can rely on the Government to fulfil their obligation ? how will the Minister ensure that company throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland feel that growth and investment will be support and foster ? I could read out the long list of investment make in the last few month , except I do not think that Mr Speaker would let I . I do not think we have time , and you would get bore with I , Mr Speaker . the hon . Member make an important point . at the moment , I be engage in negotiation on a significant possible investment . we must ensure that we be deliver value for money for the british taxpayer , and that we be not throw money away unnecessarily . of course , there come a moment when we have to make a judgment , and we make a judgment that come remarkably close to the £ 90 million offer by the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer , despite the fact that AstraZeneca ' s R & D contribution have go down from £ 150 million to £ 90 million . we make a significant offer , but for whatever reason , it do not get it over the line . obviously , we always want to get deal over the line if we possibly can , and there be compete demand for different kind of investment , but I assure the hon . member that our aim be always to try to make sure that we be at the forefront of all the nation seek such investment , especially in this kind of technology . the hon . member be right about Northern Ireland . I , as a Welshman , bang the drum for Wales , and he bang the drum for Northern Ireland — and quite rightly so . School Accountability and Intervention with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on this Government ' s plan to reform school accountability . before I begin , I want to say that I be devastate to hear that a boy have die after a stabbing at a school in Sheffield . my heart go out to his family , friend and the entire school community at this very distressing time . we be in contact with the school and the council to offer support , and investigation be under way . nothing be more important than the safety of our child . this Government be clear about the need to secure the very good education for our young people , and we be determined that our school be reform to deliver that ambition to enable every child to achieve and thrive . that reform begin at the very start of a child ' s journey , with an early year system that set up our child for the good start in life . that mean brilliant school , with excellent , qualified staff , drive high and rise standard in all part of our country . it reflect our determination to ensure that we break , in the generation ahead , the unfair link between background and opportunity . like so many in this House , I know the value of a brilliant school because I go to one in the west end of Newcastle , in the north - east . my school set high standard for all its pupil . it nurture my talent and love of learn , and it propel I forward to university and a career in law . so I know full well that the system can work and that a good school can be an incredible force for good . my school set high standard and expect we all to aim high . high standard and high expectation be this Government ' s vision for every child and every school in our country . we will set no ceiling on what child can achieve . we must recognise that member from all part of the House , include David Blunkett and Michael Gove , have drive forward great educational reform . reform have also be drive by the dedication and determination of teacher across the country . I benefit from the first statutory national curriculum , introduce by Lord Baker in 1988 . the arrival of Ofsted and the common inspection framework bring far great rigour to school inspection . numeracy hour and literacy hour bring a clear focus to the impact and importance of high - quality teaching , in and of itself . performance table bring new transparency for parent , and SATs show child ' s attainment across key stage for the first time . the sponsor academy programme , start by Labour and expand by the Conservatives , have be instrumental in raise standard in many school . Multi - academy trust bring diversity , innovation and a drive for improvement to our school . the focus on evidence and pragmatism be embody in the Education Endowment Foundation . there be a switch to phonic in the wake of the Rose review , and a focus on a curriculum rich in knowledge . all of those reform bring change to our system , transform the life chance of million of child . we understand , well than any previous generation , what work to drive up standard for child . we know , more clearly than ever before , that a great education for every child be not an impossible promise , but one that government can and must deliver . we be determined , more fiercely than ever before , to use that understanding and knowledge to take our school forward . however , in the past decade , the ambition for excellence which have power government from the left and the right , and the appetite for reform that deliver well life chance for our child , have fade , and the system have drift . conservative Members may not like hear that , so let I remind they about this Government ' s inheritance in July , which tell a less happy story : a third of child be finish primary school without the reading , writing and math skill they need ; child with special educational need be struggle to get the right support , after spend year in a system that be not serve they ; the attainment gap , between those from well - off background and those who be less privileged , be shamefully wide ; young people in London be 70 % more likely to enter university compare with their peer in the north - east , where I go to school ; and hundred of thousand of child be in school that be stuck , receive poor Ofsted judgment year on year . this government be impatient for our child ' s success . they get only one childhood , so we will not rest from ensure that they get the good education they can and we will not tolerate our child be let down . we will not sit back and await change in school from governance change alone . this Labour Government will stop at nothing to improve school and child ' s life chance . we can and must build on the legacy of reform , reignite the ambition for excellence and drive the change our child need , to push once more for high and rise standard in every school , and to break down the barrier to opportunity for every child . a key part of that change must be a reformed and improve approach to both inspection and accountability that champion good practice , encourage collaboration in school and , crucially , shine a light on all area of strength and weakness . today , the Department for Education and Ofsted be together set out plan for a new era of accountability , and a renew ambition for every child and every school . school that be stuck but have the capacity to improve must be support and push to do so . we will get our new rise — regional improvement for standard and excellence — team , whose member be expert school leader , in early . we will use they to facilitate fast improvement , use knowledge , experience and the report of reform , high - quality inspection to turn school around . we will work to chart a path to progress , and intervene in way that be effective , bespoke and proportionate , make a difference as early as possible . today , we be announce over £ 20 million for the new rise team over the next 15 month . our first 20 adviser be already in place . they will work with school across the country to drive improvement and share good practice , because when one school fail , we have all fail the child of that school . this new era of accountability will come with a new era of inspection . single headline grade push our system on and bring proper scrutiny to our school , but the time for change have come . they have become high stake for school but inadequate to drive the change that our child need — too blunt , too rough and too vague , leave too many school without a proper diagnosis and not clear on how to improve . we need a more diagnostic approach that be target and focus , raise the bar on what we expect from school , with the ingredient of a great education each give their own grade , new report card identify excellence and shine a light on performance , clarity for parent , and challenge back by support for school . those diagnostic will drive our approach to improvement . the bad perform school , whether local authority maintain or academy , will be move to a strong trust . we will never flinch from bring in new leadership when child ' s life chance demand it , but in this new era of accountability we want school to support each other . we will foster a self - improve system , where all seek to raise their standard . a propose new top grade of " exemplary " will signal educational practice that be simply too good for school to keep to themselves . when a school be award " exemplary " in any area , what it be do should be share across the country so that other can learn from the very good . our quest for high and rise standard be universal . we want good school to become great , and great school to become even well , share their excellence along the way . reformed accountability will underpin everything else that we do in education , whether that be deliver well special educational need and disability provision in mainstream school , or get to the bottom of the attendance crisis . inclusion and attendance will both be part of raise standard across our school . the change that we be make to accountability will draw on the wisdom of the entire sector . today , the Department and Ofsted launch 12 - week consultation , seek the view of those who know the school system good — teacher , school leader and parent — on the principle need for inspection , support and intervention . Ofsted have already draw on the finding of its Big Listen initiative to inform its approach to future inspection , but further action be need . ofsted ' s consultation will seek the view of parent , carer , professional and learner on how Ofsted conduct inspection and the way it report they . the consultation include proposal for new inspection methodology , alongside the propose inspection framework , toolkit and report card , to change how inspection look and feel for school . consultation and parental involvement be essential . neither the Government nor Ofsted can drive up standard for child alone . we have excellent school and trust across our country , which have come about thank to the hard work of school leader , teacher and other , and reform pass in this House . they have raise standard down the decade . the Government believe that the good way to celebrate success be to multiply it , because where someone be bear , their family , their city and their parent ' income should not determine their access to the life - change power of a good education . the measure for school accountability that I have outline will support and challenge every school to do well for its pupil , share its success , and bring high and rise standard to every corner of the country , so that every child can go to a good local school , and look forward to a bright future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Schools Minister for advance sight of her statement , and I echo her word : our thought and prayer be with the parent of the 15 - year - old boy whose life be so tragically cut short , and with the teacher and pupil at all Saints catholic high school . we be promise today a well and fast approach to school improvement , but what we have in front of we be a propose system that be slow and weak . the Secretary of State repeatedly talk about a new era today . it be a new era : one of regression , confusion and poorly think out policy . we have have that consistently with the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill over the last few month . the Education Secretary say that the Bill do not cut pay . it do . the Government say that the Bill would not reduce school choice , yet their own impact assessment say that it do . now we have a speech that say that academisation be a key driver of rise standard , yet the Government be take away automatic academy order in the Bill . once again with the Secretary of State , there be a gap between her rhetoric and the reality . the reality be weak accountability , weak standard and a slow response . the Minister , whom I respect , have be send out in the place of the Secretary of State , who be happy to give a speech to a think - tank but not to the House , to try to sell the nonsense that the proposal will mean fast school improvement , when the Secretary of State ' s own document release today show an 18 - month delay in turn around school . instead of immediate new management in a fail school , which be what happen at the moment , the Secretary of State propose to get a team of Department for Education bureaucrat to come in for 18 month . only after they make no improvement will the Education Secretary consent to actually get a new team in place to lead the school . what will that mean ? More child in fail school for long . as the Minister say , we know what work to turn around fail school . a good academy trust take over a fail school be the good intervention we can make to turn school around . there be no evidence whatsoever that the approach propose today , with a delay and with a rise team go in , will be any well . can the Minister confirm that she have no evidence that her approach of delay the academy order will be well ? can she point to where her propose approach have be trialle effectively ? it be unconscionable to foist a new system into place that be not evidence and that will make thing bad , not well . the loud criticism of end the automatic conversion of fail school into academy do not even come from the opposition , but from the Children ' s Commissioner , a former school commissioner , school leader and even Labour mp . a government Back Bencher have say , " make that process discretionary would result in a large increase in judicial review , pressure on council and prolonged uncertainty , which be in nobody ' s interest . " — [ Official Report , 8 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 902 . ] I agree . we have consistently see that where the academy order be not mandatory , there be endless legal delay . just last week , the Secretary of State revoke an academy order after the school threaten legal action . that be exactly what those who have raise concern say would happen — it be utterly shameful . I ask the Minister : how many cohort of child have to pass through a fail school before the Secretary of State will take action ? how many child will they fail before they do something ? academisation work — even the Government ' s own impact assessment of the Bill admit that . but what be labour ' s much - anticipate grand alternative ? new regional school improvement team . what be in the place of expert academy trust with prove leadership take over school ? the Minister talk of 20 adviser . to put that in context , the Harris academy trust alone have over 90 expert staff focus on school improvement . do the Minister really think that 20 people be sufficient ? how do that compare with the number of people in the Department ' s communication team , for example ? what be happen to all the school due to receive structural intervention from the beginning of this year ? be we replace new management with vague advice ? all this be do be create a weak system and uncertainty and delay , and it be child from the most deprived area who will suffer the most . on Ofsted , the Government claim that parent and teacher want clarity . in response , we have move from four to five rating , multiple different category , include one more for safeguarding , and no overall score . the new system be propose today be complicated and please nobody . the Association of School and College Leaders have say that the new grading system be " bewildering " . what be the Minister ' s response ? another day , another chaotic reset attempt from this Government . it be educational vandalism , however they try to dress it up . the Children ' s Commissioner say last week that the school Bill would leave child " spend long in fail school " . Minister , she be right , isn ' t she ? perhaps the right hon . Lady would recognise the legacy that her government leave behind : school crumble , standard fall , a lose - lose - lose special educational need and disability system , and a generation miss from England ' s school . it be no wonder that a shadow Minister admit that they should hang their head in shame over their record . in little over 100 day , this Labour Government have move education back to the centre of national life , with breakfast club in primary , saving for family on uniform cost , nursery for family , school be rebuild across the country , well pay for teacher , school report card , the development of a broad and rich curriculum , and a child poverty taskforce to clean up the Tories ' mess . labour be deliver a new era for school standard , overhaul school inspection and accountability , and drive high and rise standard for every child in every school . we will create a one - stop - shop for parent with our new digital school profile , and we will challenge the 600 stuck school that have receive consecutive " poor " ofsted judgment . that be the new front in the fight against low expectation , and our rise team will spearhead the strong , fast system , prioritise those school . on top of those measure , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will improve standard by get excellent qualified teacher in every classroom to teach a cutting - edge curriculum so that parent know their child will get an excellent core offer . as part of our plan for change , we be give every child the good start in life . that be the difference that a Labour Government will make . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I thank the Minister for her statement , and I associate myself with her remark about the tragic incident in Sheffield . the consultation that the Minister have announce be be launch in the context of considerable pressure in our education system , particularly the crisis in the SEND system , which have far - reach consequence for every part of the sector , and the serious problem in the recruitment and retention of teacher . the Education Committee have hear from stakeholder that accountability pressure can encourage exclusionary practice to maintain academic performance . school leader regularly raise concern that the lack of resource to meet the need of child with SEND make it hard for they to meet the need of every child . how do the Department plan to safeguard child with SEND to ensure that accountability pressure on school do not lead to exclusionary practice but instead promote inclusive approach that support the need of student with SEND ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to focus on that issue . improve the SEND system be clearly a focal point for deliver on our opportunity mission to break the link between background and opportunity . we have make a clear commitment to inclusive mainstream education . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill include measure to give local authority more lever on admission , and Ofsted have make it clear that inclusion will be a key feature of inspection — not instead of high and rise standard , but as well as . she will know that we be keep this matter under review . our reform plan be in progress , and we will make further announcement on they in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I associate myself with the Minister ' s comment about the tragic stabbing in Sheffield ? at this difficult time , our thought and prayer be with the family and friend of the boy who be stab to death . ensure that every child have the opportunity of an excellent education so that they can thrive be one of the most important job that a Government can do . school inspection and improvement have long need reform , and we Liberal Democrats have be clear in our call for the single - word ofsted judgment to go . those judgment simply do not give parent the information that they need to make well - inform decision about what be right for their child , and they have foster an adversarial culture that have fail school , teacher and , in turn , our child . however , a move away from single - word to multiple - word judgment will do little to bring about change on its own . we need a culture shift so that Ofsted , teacher , school leader and parent be partner , rather than adversary , in the process of school improvement and assessment . be the Minister confident that these proposal will achieve that culture shift so that the inspector be see as a critical friend rather than someone to be fear ? the Minister have speak a lot in recent month about the importance of mainstream inclusivity in tackle the SEND crisis . although the report card will take into account inclusivity — in the broad sense of that word — there be no dedicated assessment of how a school ' s environment and provision cater to child and young people with SEND . give how many thousand be miss out on the support that they need , and the importance of that issue to school , should that element not be assess on its own merit ? finally , I be utterly incredulous that we be get these announcement today , when we be halfway through the Committee stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which make a significant change to the school improvement regime . it can not be right that this House be be ask to legislate a new approach to school improvement — namely , repeal of the duty to make an academy order for fail school — without know the outcome of these consultation by Ofsted and the Government . the cart seem to have be put before the horse . school accountability and improvement be too important for change to be make in this vacuum . I honestly expect well from this Government , and it be disappointing that parliamentary scrutiny — order . the hon . Lady will know that she have well exceed the allotted two minute . follow the end of headline judgment in September , Ofsted undertake the big listen , and listen very carefully to feedback on the way it conduct inspection while also review the format for report on those inspection . I note the hon . Lady ' s comment in that regard . in the new system that have be design , that work have pave the way for the roll - out of school report card . subject to consultation — both the Government and Ofsted be very open to the view of the profession — they will be roll out in September . alongside a reform Ofsted , we be create the rise team , comprise of leader with a prove track record of improve school standard . those team will draw on bespoke improvement plan for stuck school , with significant investment . the previous Government make £ 6 , 000 available for stuck school ; under this government , it will be more like £ 100 , 000 per school to drive that improvement . [ Official Report , 11 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) the hon . Lady ' s comment in relation to SEND be well make . as I say to the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , that be something that Ofsted will be judge , look specifically at inclusion as well as — not instead of — high and rise attainment standard in school . the reformed accountability and improvement system very much build on the work of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will : require teacher to have , or work towards , qualified teacher status ; ensure that all school teach a cutting - edge national curriculum , follow the curriculum and assessment review ; and restore teaching as an attractive profession through a floor , but no ceiling , for pay and condition . all those reform combine will drive high and rise standard and break down the barrier to opportunity for every child . I appreciate all the work that my hon . friend be do , but the governance structure of multi - academy trust lack transparency , not least to the local community . in some area , their executive board be choose member and trustee , without the rigour of accountability . will my hon . friend ensure that mechanism be available to allow far more robust scrutiny of multi - academy trust , as well as the option to return those school to the local authority ? as part of its propose reform , Ofsted will be look at the leadership of school , include their governance , because good leadership be clearly the route map to child ' s success within they . we be legislate for all school to have a duty to co - operate with local authority on place planning and admission to ensure we have a whole school system that work together . we encourage collaboration by outstanding , excellent , exemplary school — trust in particular — that can share their expertise across the board : a collaborative school system that serve the community and , where possible , ensure that every child have access to a good local school within their community . I call the Father of the House . in my experience , parent have a pretty good instinct for what be a good school , and the great generator of progress have be the academy programme , with headteacher respond to what parent want . we should be give they more freedom , not less . be there not a danger that if we create highly complex Ofsted report with league table across 40 different area , we will replace headteacher concentrate on what parent want with a tick - box culture focus on appease the man in Whitehall ? the solution be not endless auditing but deliver what parent want . I find the notion that parent will not be able to understand more information about their child ' s school a bit insulting to parent , who care deeply about their child and their education . parent tell we they want more information , not less . a one - word judgment do not adequately sum up a school . the ofsted proposal be to report on nine different area , all of which be key ingredient of a child ' s education . that may enable school that perform in an exemplary or a very strong way on some measure to be give due credit — where they be tackle attendance or behaviour issue — so that they can share good practice . this will be a self - improve system and we will recognise good practice , but we will target — laser - focused — area that need to improve . in spite of the broken state of SEND provision in my constituency and across the country , I have have the real privilege of meet some school that be go above and beyond to support pupil with additional need , but not all school , whether it in their approach to admission , provision or exclusion , be be hold to the same standard . as well as this Government ' s welcome investment in SEND reform , how will our change to accountability ensure that every school be hold to the high possible standard on inclusion ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight inclusion , and that be one of the great opportunity present . the report card system will look at a range of practice across a school , and inclusion be a part of the proposal . we need to see a more inclusive mainstream system , and well co - operation and collaboration at a local level to ensure that every child , regardless of their special educational need or disability , have access to the excellent education that will set they up to thrive . there seem to be a lot of narrative reset around in Government at the moment , but I must say that I for one be thrill and refresh to hear the hon . Lady speak about school standard with pride . I be thrilled to hear she speak about the role of year 6 assessment , phonic and multi - academy trust in drive improvement . it be perhaps a good thing the Government Dispatch Box do not have wing mirror , because not all her colleague look quite as excited as I be . I admire her bravery , but I say to she that with word must come deed if she be serious about this . one thing she could do be excise from the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill those large element of part 2 that undermine the freedom and flexibility for academy and academy trust that have enable such improvement to take place . will she do it ? our Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a whole package of measure that will not only deliver landmark reform to child safeguarding , but unleash the ability of all school to collaborate and work together in operate under this new accountability system to drive high and rise standard . this will ensure that every child have the offer of a national curriculum , a qualified teacher in every classroom , and high and rise standard in every school in England . I thank the Minister for her statement , particularly consider the awful news she have to convey to this House . as a former teacher , I see at first hand the damage that high - stake single - word Ofsted judgment have on teacher and headteacher not just in my constituency of Harlow , but across Essex . I welcome this Government ' s focus on raise standard in our school , but do she recognise that under the previous Government there be far too much focus on stick rather than carrot when it come to support teacher ? any change to the ofsted framework need to support our hard - work teacher , whose mental health and wellbeing be rock bottom at the moment . I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I commend he for his experience in the classroom , which be clearly valuable . we always want to encourage more teacher . indeed , the whole reasoning behind these reform be to create an accountability system that recognise good practice and identifie where improvement can be make , but also diagnose how such improvement can be make and ensure there be the ability to create a self - improve system among our school , so that they can support one another to drive forward those improvement in the interest of everybody . it be not about punish school ; it be about support school to create those improvement , which we know that they want and we want to see for child . headteacher in my constituency of South Devon have express some disappointment today at the reform in the ofsted regime ; they say it offer the opportunity for fundamental reform but they do not see that . for example , there be no detail on how inclusion will be measure , which we know be absolutely crucial for address the SEND crisis . as this be such a key part of the new inspection process , can the Minister assure the House that detail of how inclusion will be measure will be make available while there be still time for meaningful consultation ? the hon . Lady raise an important point and we absolutely want to hear from school about how issue like inclusion can be successfully measure and incentivise and hold accountable as part of this system . along with the document Ofsted have produce today it have produce toolkit that set out its inspection framework , and I urge the hon . Lady and those in her constituency who be make representation to take a look . if additional issue be outstanding , of course she should get in touch . I thank the Minister for her statement and her commitment to drive up standard in all our school — and I gently invite those on the conservative Benches who seem to think that multi - academy trust be a panacea for everything to take a look at the experience of my constituent in Hastings and Rye , where we have be spectacularly fail by some particularly bad academy chain . nowhere be this rise in school standard more urgently need than my constituency , where over half of young people leave school without the equivalent of a grade c in GCSE math and English . three out of three secondary school in Hastings be currently rate as require improvement and at one of they , Ark Alexandra , 123 child leave last term because they do not feel that school be meet their need . will my hon . friend urgently meet I to discuss these issue and how we can drive up school standard in Hastings and Rye ? I will happily meet my hon . friend . I know she be commit to secure well outcome for the school and child in her area . we be make these reform so that we can go far to make improvement well and fast . we want to add to the tool in our box to help school improve . we be not take anything away ; we be only add to the ability to ensure we get the change within our school system that far too many child desperately need . how many structural intervention do the Minister expect school to get each year — not rise intervention but structural intervention ? we expect the range of structural intervention to continue as currently , at least for the next 12 month , because we will continue to intervene where school be cause concern and to mandate structural change . we will also continue to mandate it where significant improvement be require in school . we will , however , see a doubling of the number of school that need significant improvement through the rise system ; so we be not reduce the number of intervention that the previous Government undertake , but double the number of school be help and support to improve . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . in Telford there be five stuck school . the rise in investment from £ 6 , 000 to potentially £ 100 , 000 per stuck school mean that up to £ 470 , 000 of extra investment be come the way of Telford school . from speak to my wife , who be a primary school teacher in Telford , I know that it be about not just money , but peer support and tap into excellence and expertise . can my hon . friend assure I that the money , which be game change , will also be accompany by that extra support ? my hon . friend have correctly identify that we see the future of school improvement as very much drive by a whole school self - improve system , where school will support one another to drive that improvement . we be put the extra money in place and we really want to be laser - focus on those 600 school that have be stick on far too low a rating for far too long , to ensure that the more than 300 , 000 child in they be support as quickly as possible with improved outcome . as my hon . Friend say about peer support , it be important that we tap into knowledge and expertise from trust that we know be do an excellent job . I have speak to a number of headteacher in Maidenhead today , who have tell I that what Ofsted be propose be incredibly overcomplicate , make " exceptional " seem out of reach and will be a blunt tool that will not allow school ' individual identity to be take into account . they still do not believe that anybody can accurately judge a school ' s strength and area for improvement within two day . what do the Minister have to say to those headteacher , and will she meet I and Maidenhead head to discuss ? I encourage those headteacher to feed back to Ofsted as part of the consultation process . obviously , it be ofste ' s consultation process . it determine the mechanism by which it will undertake the new inspection , and it set the framework . as the Department for Education , we be responsible for implement the finding of an ofsted inspection , but we be interested in make sure that it achieve what we want it to achieve , which be to drive high and rise standard . we be confident that the new framework will do that . the Department for Education also have its consultation document out on how we see the reform work in practice . if the hon . Gentleman would like to meet and discuss that , I would be happy to do so . I welcome what my hon . friend have say today . I recently visit Mile Cross primary school in Norwich , which be a shine beacon of what a local school can provide to its resident . will she join I in pay tribute to the staff and pupil at Mile Cross ? she touch on this in her statement , but how can we ensure that lesson in good practice be share from primary school such as Mile Cross , not just across the county , but across the country ? my hon . friend be right to celebrate the good work be do by school in her local area . we recognise that many school , both in the trust sector and in the maintain sector , be work tirelessly day in , day out to deliver excellent outcome for their child . report card will clearly identify what need to improve , and it be important that they do so , but they will also encourage school to work together to identify the exemplary practice that should be spread more widely . she be right to highlight the many example in her area and to look forward to school work across the system to drive improvement across the board . how will the selection of colour - code performance area on the report card be determine by the view and need of parent as much as by Ministers and the education establishment ? how do the exceptional school that the Minister have describe differ from the beacon school that the then Labour Government create in 1998 and abolish in 2004 ? the determination of the report card be within Ofsted ' s remit . it have launch its consultation . the right hon . Gentleman be invite to contribute to the consultation , and I encourage anyone within his local area to do so , too . we be open to feedback . in term of the retro question , we be very much look forward to how these reform can support the Department for Education in its work to target reform where we know it be need . our system be not work well , and we know it need to change . that be why we have introduce the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . it be why we be design a school system that support and challenge every school to deliver for every child . between our reform and those that Ofsted be consult on — we welcome feedback and be open to it — we be confident that together we can deliver those high and rise standard for every child . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have have various role in voluntary governance , include as chair of a multi - academy trust , as well as in maintain school , pupil referral unit , a faith school and a free school — the list be quite comprehensive — and I would just comment that the argument about push school into one direction or another , whether wholly maintain or wholly academise , be bogus . I congratulate the Minister on focus on the provision of the statement about accountability and improvement and not get divert by that argument . I have participate in many ofsted inspection over the year as part of my voluntary governance role and I can attest to the hard work of all staff across all our school and academy , as well as the stress that often accompany — order . the hon . Member will have to perfect put a short question to the Minister . perhaps another sentence will do . do the Minister agree that the new school report card will need to balance the important additional information need by parent with the requirement for school improvement and protect staff wellbee ? will she listen to parent and the whole education sector — order . I thank my hon . friend for his service , which be hugely important . we often do not recognise enough the work that governor undertake and the important role they play in our school system . we thank all school governor for their service and encourage more people to sign up . in response to my hon . friend ' s initial comment , he may be interested to know that between January 2022 and December 2024 , 40 % of school in a category of concern take over a year to convert to sponsor academy . that be too long . we need to intervene more quickly , which be why we will use the opportunity of a more diagnostic ofsted report card to identify where improvement need to happen so that we can get in there with rise team much early — as soon as a school have fail its inspection — and no long focus solely on structural intervention , as he say , but on however school improvement can be well undertake . one of the most common area of casework in Mid Dorset and North Poole involve child with special need . parent often cite awful experience of child be manipulate out of school by those school be make truly hostile place for they and by failure , often at a trust level , to provide even low - cost or no - cost change , with parent completely ignore in the process . I be interested in understand why the Minister have not include full accountability and judgment at multi - academy trust level in the reform , because parent simply have nowhere to go when they need to complain and the problem be with the trust . the hon . Lady be right to highlight the issue and what she say sound very concerning . we be look at multi - academy trust level accountability and how parent can engage in the relationship with school , ensure that the proper line of accountability be available . I will continue to keep that under review and will report on it in due course . like the Minister , I be the product of a state school in the north - east , and I be tremendously proud of that fact . during the election , many teacher in Throckley , Hexham , Ponteland , Prudhoe and elsewhere tell I on the doorstep that they feel the one - word judgment do not allow sufficient room for subtlety and nuance in the evaluation of school , and parent feel the same . will the Minister assure I that this be simply the first step in deliver the high and rise standard that we all need and expect for child across the country ? my hon . Friend speak to my heart as he reference area of his constituency that I represent in this place for 14 year from 2010 . he go to an excellent school in the neighbouring constituency . he be right that this really be the first step on the journey of improve our school and make sure that every child have the good start in life and the good education possible . it be quite right that we measure the performance of school since we spend billion of pound on they every year and they affect the life chance of million of child across the country . will the Minister explain why she be introduce these new measure to improve standard in school at the same time as jettison the academy system , which be design to improve standard and disseminate change to improve school ? what be the implication for individual school in gathering , hold and present the datum require to give the information for the nine section and five different level ? how will she make all that comprehensible to parent ? I will answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s three question in reverse order . on the first , I think parent be perfectly capable of understand a more complex report card than one word . I also disagree with his characterisation of the change . we be very much about harness all the great thing that academy have achieve , include the great reform , improvement and innovation that they have pioneer . we want to spread that right across our school system . the purpose of the report card be to shine a light on all that great practice so that it can be spread more widely , and to shine a particular spotlight on where improvement be need , to deliver it as quickly as possible . how Ofsted will deliver be a matter for Ofsted , and if he wish to respond to its consultation , I be sure his view would be welcome . I thank the Minister for her remark , particularly about the funding for regional improvement team in school . two week ago , my constituent in Shinfield and Whitley receive the devastating news that their local secondary school , Oakbank , have receive its bad ever ofste report . parent and former staff at that school have ask I how the Anthem school trust , which have fail not just school in my constituency but several other in recent year , can be hold to account . will the Minister set out how the new accountability framework will put in place safeguard against fail multi - academy trust ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern . I do not know the detail of the specific school , but a school judge by Ofsted to require special measure will still receive structural intervention . if it be a maintained school , it will become an academy . if it be already an academy , which I believe this school be , it will be transfer to a new and strong trust . in the short term , while the rise team be focus on stuck school and on build their capacity , a school require significant improvement will , by default , continue to receive structural intervention . we propose that from September 2026 a school in that category will receive mandatory target intervention from rise . school will be support much more quickly to drive those improve outcome for child , without have to wait for structural intervention . my teacher in Esher and Walton have greet today ' s announcement with a degree of cynicism , which be to be expect after feel ignore for the last 10 year . one write to I say , " same system , different name . " another say , " same old thing , just different word . " will the Minister reassure they that this be not just business as usual ? might she expand on the level of collaboration that she talk of ? I encourage the teacher mention by the hon . Lady to feed into the consultation . let I allay some of their concern . although how it conduct its consultation and report on its inspection be for Ofsted , as a Department we be very focused on create a self - improve system of collaboration , use the new report card to identify exemplary practice and share that more widely . that will identify where support be require and encourage school to work in collaboratively to deliver it . rise team will bolster that target approach , particularly for stuck school , which we know have be ignore for far too long . I hope that the teacher she reference will feel more confident about the system , and I encourage they to respond to the consultation . the laser focus on stuck school will be incredibly important for the life chance of child who have be fail for too long . I be pleased that the Government be put their money where their mouth be , with up to £ 100 , 000 for each school . ofsted research make the point that in some unstuck school , the role of MATs in raise expectation and develop curriculum subject expertise have be critical , but in other that have remain stuck , the MATs have not be effective and be not provide the right quality support . will the Minister say more about how rise team can work with MATs to improve the support that they offer ? child get only one childhood , so it matter deeply that they get to go to a great school while they be still child , which be why we be determined to deliver fast improvement to the school that need it . while academisation have be successful in many place , it can be a slow process , and not all school can be match up with strong trust , which be why we will utilise the rise team to support school to work together , drive improvement and create that whole - system reform that we know child need to see . I thank the Minister for her answer and welcome the Government ' s decision to uplift accountability and transparency in the schooling sector . could the Minister clarify what help and support will be offer to struggle school to ensure that this accountability also bring about the improvement that be undoubtedly and clearly essential ? far to the question my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) ask on academy sector education , have the Minister have any discussion with her counterpart in Northern Ireland on the impact of decision make in Westminster on the academy sector back home ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome today ' s statement . we be very much strengthen the tool we can use for fast and more effective school improvement with the introduction of the new rise team . in addition , as he point out , the great transparency and diagnostic approach of Ofsted report will enable we to identify both where great practice be and where there be room for improvement . I will take away his question about the impact on other part of the UK . parent of SEND child in Gloucester will welcome today ' s statement and the word of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on SEND and inclusion in our school . will the Minister confirm that the measure set out by this Labour Government will drive up standard for all child in Gloucester , and will she meet I and parent in my city , who have for year battle the broken system leave behind by the previous Conservative Government ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . we wish to see a change in the drive towards an inclusive mainstream as part of this new ofsted accountability system , and the change in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bills will obviously support those endeavour . the curriculum and assessment review will also look at how barrier to inclusion can be remove in the curriculum and assessment system , and at how we can get high standard and expectation of great progress for all child , include those with special educational need and disability . I associate myself with the Minister ' s early comment about the tragic event in Sheffield , where another young life have sadly be lose to knife crime . do the Minister agree that these landmark reform will not only drive high and rise standard , but help in the recruitment and retention of teacher ? will she also confirm that we will engage fully with parent and teacher on the development of plan for school report card ? I absolutely agree . high - quality teaching be the most important in - school factor for improve outcome for child . we absolutely need to drive recruitment , but our great tool for recruitment be retention — we need to hold on to the fantastic teacher who be in our school . a more holistic and broad picture of school will shine a light on the great practice go on , the hard work and the context in which school operate , and will deliver on the desire , which I know every teacher have , to deliver high and rise standard for the child in their care . I have work closely with school in some of the most disadvantaged part of our country , and I have see academy trust after academy trust fail to turn around school in some of the most challenging circumstance , leave behind some of our most disadvantaged learner . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to support the turnaround with cash , with £ 100 , 000 be make available as compare with the £ 6 , 000 that be previously provide . do that not show the difference in the importance place by Labour on turn around fail school compare with the Tories ? my hon . friend put it very well . we absolutely need to be laser - focus on school that have consistently underperformed but have not receive the support , help or intervention they need to succeed . we will be laser - focused on support those school to achieve the outcome that we know they want to achieve for their child but just need the support to do so . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to overhaul Ofsted , and particularly the commitment to ensure that SEND be at the heart of every school , because a truly outstanding school be one that have inclusivity at the heart of everything it do . will the Minister commit to listen , through the consultation , to the parent and carer of SEND kid , to ensure that they be at the heart of the reform the Government be deliver ? my hon . friend advocate very powerfully for the family in his area who have be struggle with a SEND system that be clearly in need of reform . the change that Ofsted and the Department be propose be design to create a more inclusive and effective school system for all child , include those with special educational need and disability . indeed , we will continue to listen to their voice as we plan our reform . I thank my hon . friend for her statement . I recently meet headteacher in my community who detail the challenge they face : SEND , recruitment and retention , and persistent absence . will the Minister set out how the Government ' s reform will start to remedy those issue and break down the barrier to opportunity for child and young people in my constituency ? do she agree that the reform be an important step in fix the damage inflict on our education system by the Conservative party over the past 14 year ? I absolutely recognise the challenge that my hon . friend set out . many school right across the system , whether local authority maintain or academy , face similar challenge . the report card system will be a really important reflection of a whole school ' s experience , and will laser - focus on area such as attendance and inclusion , create toolkit to enable school to know the standard they need to reach , but also enable school to work together collaboratively , support one another to achieve those outcome for child . we be not in the game of punish school ; we be in the game of support they to bring about the change that we know they want to see . I have visit more than a dozen school in my constituency since be elect , and I be always overwhelm by the passion of the teacher who have to work in really try circumstance . they be often very under - resource to deal with child who be ill - prepared for school and a grow caseload of child with special educational need , so I really welcome the additional investment with the rise team . as the Minister will know , Conservative Members be fond of quote our improvement in the PISA ranking , which be the legacy of the generation who experience sure Start — where child have a Sure Start centre nearby , that generation achieve 0 . 8 grade high at GCSE . what will the Government do to ensure that we have more child come to school who be prepare for school ? my hon . friend have very much diagnose the challenge . we have a persistently and stubbornly high disadvantage gap , where we know that child be leave primary school without the fundamental of reading , writing and math . that go on to impact their outcome in secondary school , but we know that start at the very early stage . that be why we be invest in the early year , speech and language therapy , and nursery provision . we be absolutely determined to improve the early learn development goal outcome for child and give every child the good start in life . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but in my constituency GCSE result be among the low in the country and a quarter of pupil be class as persistently absent . what message do the Minister have for child , parent and teacher about plan to drive high and rise standard to provide more and well opportunity in my constituency ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for the child in her area , and she be absolutely right to champion well outcome . we know that the journey towards not achieve the grade that child should achieve start at the early stage , which be why , as I have say , we be invest in the early year . the ofsted report card will shine a light on the issue of attendance — we know that child can not get a great education if they be not at school to get it , and attendance must be a priority for school — but we recognise the challenge , so we want to support school to be able to achieve well attendance figure , and we will do so by diagnose those challenge and put in place the self - support school system that can drive those well outcome . the Harris Federation have just reveal that its chief executive ' s pay be in excess of half a million pound a year . do my hon . friend agree that we need much more transparency and accountability when it come to the excessive pay of some multi - academy trust leader ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I will take it away and look at it . under the last government , most school in my constituency suffer real - term funding cut and child poverty increase by more than 50 % . reform of the inspection system be need and be welcome , but do the Minister agree that the key to child do well and good outcome be measure be investment and support for the family of child from pre - birth onwards , as well as fair funding for all our school ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he have not only diagnose the problem , but recommend a solution . we have establish a child poverty taskforce , chair by the Secretary of State for Education along with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , to take a fundamental look at the lever that we have in Government to support child so that they no long grow up in poverty , which we know be affect their outcome both in education and in life . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 30 July I write to the Treasury on behalf of a constituent . despite have chase that up twice , I be still await a response , 130 day later . similarly , on 29 October I write to the Treasury about a budgetary matter , and be tell on 30 January that my query be be transfer to the Department for Education — a delay of 65 working day . what advice can you give I on how to elicit a response from Ministers ? I thank the right hon . member for her point of order and for advance notice of it . it be , of course , disappointing to hear of these delay , which will have be note by those on the Government Front Bench . if she require further advice , I be sure that the Table Office will be happy to provide it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . like my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , I be experience difficulty in get response from the Government . back in November , along with other right hon . and hon . member , I write to the Chancellor about budgetary measure , but we do not receive a reply . I raise that on 3 December — during Treasury question — and again on 27 December , and I chase the government far on 14 January , but we have still receive no response . a food business in my constituency want some support with export last summer . we chase the Government on 5 August , 24 September , 12 November , and 6 and 28 January , but we have receive no response . finally — this be my final example , rather than the final response that be miss ; I could give many more example — a constituent have a problem involve vehicle excise duty , so I write to the Government on 4 October . again , despite that be repeatedly chase , there have be no response . what on earth can member do ? either the Government do not know the answer , or they have complete disrespect for the House , its member and my constituent in not provide they . I thank the hon . member for her point of order . she will have hear I say early that this be not a matter for the Chair , but she have take the correct step by raise it during question and on other occasion . like the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , she could take advice from the Table Office , and those on the Government Front Bench will certainly have hear her concern . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment have not be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this Bill will help deliver the big ever crackdown on fraud against the public purse , which have now reach an astonishing £ 55 billion a year . that include fraud against our public service , such as by those who abuse the tax system ; fraud by dishonest company that use deception to win public contract and manipulate invoice ; and benefit fraud by criminal gang and individual , which now stand at a staggering £ 7 . 4 billion a year . there have always be people who commit fraud against the state — tragically , this be not a new problem — but at a time when family across the country be work so hard to pay their bill and put food on the table , when more than 7 million people be stick in pain and discomfort on NHS waiting list , and when a shameful 4 . 3 million child in Britain be grow up poor , it be simply unforgiveable that the Conservatives allow fraud to spiral out of control . during their 14 long year in government , they fail to put in place a proper plan to crack down on fraud , and there be no well symbol of this than their failure to update the power of the Department for Work and Pensions to properly crack down on benefit fraud . just let that sink in for a moment . over the last decade , fraudster have become increasingly sophisticated in the technique that they use to steal people ' s money , use datum , technology and all manner of scam . in response , bank and other company have transform their ability to spot and stop fraud , and to protect their customer ' money , but the last government completely fail to do the same for taxpayer . in all their time in power , and with all the development in technology and the ability to share datum and information , they fail to update the DWP ' s power . the Conservatives will no doubt claim that they do introduce measure , but , in truth , they put forward one poorly think - through measure that be tag on to another Bill at the tail end of the last Parliament , without any of the proper safeguard or oversight in place . today , all that change with our new fraud Bill . this Bill be tough and it be fair . it be tough on the large company and dodgy businessman who try to defraud our public service , it be tough on the criminal gang and individual who cheat the benefit system , and it be fair to claimant who make genuine mistake , by help we to spot and prevent error early . taxpayer deserve to know that every single pound of their hard - earn money be be spend wisely and that benefit be there only for those who need they , not fraudster who take advantage . the Secretary of State be absolutely correct to say that we need to pursue criminal gang that be engage in widespread organise theft . I put a write question to the Department for Work and Pensions to ask about the amount lose through personal independence payment fraud , and I be tell that only 0 . 2 % of such claim be fraudulent in 2022 - 23 . do the Secretary of State agree that as we pursue organised criminal gang , it be really important that we make it clear that there can not be a hostile approach to disabled people claim PIP or disabled people more widely who be use the benefit system as they deserve to ? People who be genuinely entitle to claim benefit have nothing to worry about from this Bill , but we believe that the £ 7 . 4 billion waste every year through benefit fraud must be crack down on . to the corrupt company with their dodgy covid contract , to the organise criminal gang and to every single individual knowingly cheat the system , our message today be clear : we will find you , we will stop you and we will get our money back . no one deny that there be those who be blatantly cheat the system , as I refer to in my oral question to the Secretary of State early today . on her point about fair play , however , can she give an assurance to I and to the House ? I be concerned that if official in the Department seek out low - hang fruit , people who have a genuine disability could be deny their right . I be concerned about the anxiety , the depression and the physical effect that that might cause . actually , the Bill will do the precise opposite . through the measure relate to the Public Sector Fraud Authority , we be say to the large company and corporation and to the individual cheat , " we will treat you equally . we do not allow fraud against the public purse . we want to stop it and get our money back . " rise — I will make a bit of progress . I want to start by set out the measure in the Bill that give the Public Sector Fraud Authority the power that it need — far to the point that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) rightly raise — to fight modern fraud across the public sector on behalf of Government Departments and public body . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will set this out first . the Bill will provide the authority with new power to obtain search warrant , to enter premise and seize evidence as part of fraud investigation , to compel business and individual to provide information where there be a suspicion of fraud , and to enable it to well detect and prevent payment make as a result of fraud or error . it will also bring in new debt recovery power , so that we can get public money back for taxpayer , and new financial penalty that the psfa can use as an alternative to often lengthy criminal prosecution . what happen during the pandemic be completely unacceptable , with billion of pound squander by the Conservatives on dodgy deal with their covid crony . this Bill will help we to get that money back . it will double from six to 12 year the time limit for civil claim to be bring in alleged case of covid fraud , give the psfa and our new covid counter - fraud commissioner more time to investigate complex case relate to those who exploit a national emergency for personal profit . I have spend more than a decade study fraud and error in the DWP . the Secretary of State be right that level of fraud have be intransigently high , but my concern be about where there be error . quite often , they be make by the Department . my constituent receive a £ 5 , 000 overpayment . will the Secretary of State make it clear to the House that people in that situation will not have money take out of their bank account , and that they will be treat properly if there be a small error on their side or a big error by the Department ? I will come on to that point in a moment , but I have the utmost respect for my hon . friend . in fact , I think that the measure in the Bill will help we to spot such error and prevent they from happen in the first place . People make genuine mistake . we do not want they to build up error and build up debt that they have to repay . I think that the Bill be part of solve that problem . I will say more about that in a moment . I turn to fraud and error specifically in our welfare system . the Bill will modernise and extend the DWP ' s anti - fraud power , bring it into line with other body such as his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , so that we can use technology and datum to find and prevent fraud more quickly and effectively ; so that our serious and organised counter - fraud investigator have the power they need to search premise and seize evidence , include from criminal gang , and bring offender to justice ; and so that we can ensure that when people owe we money and , crucially , when they can pay , we get that money back for taxpayer . that all come with strong and new safeguard and with independent oversight on the face of the Bill , as I will set out in detail . as my right hon . Friend mention , the Conservatives do not do much on this issue except tag on a Bill at the very end of their tenure . the Information Commissioner ' s Office be very critical of the approach take in that fraud Bill . can she reassure the House that she have address those concern ? I can indeed reassure the House . the Information Commissioner be rightly critical of the last measure introduce by the Conservatives — the third - party datum measure . he have write to we today , and we will make sure that his letter be publish . he say that he have review our proposal and be very clear that the current measure more tightly scope the type of information that can and can not be share ; specifie much more clearly those in the power ' s scope ; require a statutory code of practice before measure be take ; and include a requirement for the Secretary of State to appoint an independent person to carry out review of these function . I be more than happy to publish that and share it with the House , because I think it show the change this Government be make . we be serious about get these measure through . we understand people ' s concern , and we have address they . the Information Commissioner ' s letter should reassure the House . my right hon . friend have the House ' s wholehearte support in pursue the recovery of fund take by fraud and error . the National Audit Office estimate that , in the last financial year , £ 39 billion of tax revenue be not receive due to fraud and error , compare with £ 7 billion in overpay benefit class as fraud , which we want to pursue . can she reassure the House that an appropriate level of resource will be target at recover this large sum of money , which will bring well dividend back to the Treasury ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue , which he know the Chancellor and the Treasury team be look at seriously . the clear message from this Government be , " if you be get money to which you be not entitle or owe money to the taxpayer through either unpaid taxis or fraud , that be wrong . " we treat everything the same , large or small . we believe in our public service and our social security system , and we want people to know that every single penny of their money be wisely spend and go to those in the great need . as a Member of the party that introduce the state pension , I be behind the Government on this Bill because we all want to cut down on tax fraud and evasion . but I be concerned that pensioner be include under this blanket of Government scrutiny , and it seem that the only thing they have do to deserve it be to get a bit old . one of the new measure introduce by the Bill , the eligibility verification measure , explicitly exclude the state pension . I reassure the hon . Lady on that point . in place like Telford , it be a basic principle that people pay into the system and then take out of the system , or their neighbour do , when they be in need . the company and individual that be defraud national benefit be often also defraud local authority benefit and scheme . will we extend these power so that local government be able to work with national Government to pursue this fraud ? I reassure my hon . friend that local authority will be able to put example to the Public Sector Fraud Authority for scrutiny . the new power introduce by the Bill will enable the psfa to crack down on precisely those issue . will the Minister give way ? I will crack on a little , and then I will be happy to take an intervention . I will now spell out each of the Bill ' s measure in turn . first , there be power to investigate potential fraud . the Bill will mean that , for the first time , the DWP ' s serious and organised crime investigator will be able to apply to a court for a warrant to enter and search the premise of suspect fraudster and criminal gang to seize item for evidence , such as computer and phone . at the moment , our investigator have to rely on the police to do this . the Bill will enable we to act much more quickly to gather evidence , to take control of and speed up investigation , while also free up police time . these power will be use only when approve by the court , and the police will continue to be responsible for arrest suspect . secondly , the Bill will update the DWP ' s information - gather power for investigate fraud . at the moment , we have the power to require information from only a limited list of third party . this do not include key organisation and sector that could help to prove or disprove suspect fraud , such as airline . to add to that , there be limited ability to require response to request to be send electronically . instead , quite unbelievably , they have to be send in writing or physically collect , which be time consume and cumbersome , to say the least . that limitation on our power completely underline how the change in the Bill be long overdue , and the lack of action by the previous Government . the Bill widen who the DWP can compel information from , and it will enable we to require the information to be provide digitally by default . thirdly , our new eligibility verification measure will enable we to require bank or other financial institution to provide crucial datum to help identify incorrect benefit payment people might be get , include fraudulently , such as if someone have too much in saving , make they ineligible for a benefit , or if they be fraudulently claim benefit abroad when they should be live in the UK . People should not be get benefit they be not entitle to , and the alert will make the process of identify potential fraudster much simple , quick and easy . however , we know that people lead busy life and sometimes genuine mistake happen . the measure will help there too , by find and put error right quickly , prevent people from build up large debt that they then need to repay . I be absolutely determined to reduce benefit mistake by stop they from happen in the first place and to avoid debt build up , with all the worry and distress that cause . that be why I have launch the independent investigation into the overpayment of carer ' s allowance , in order to learn lesson about what go wrong and ensure that do not happen again . I want to stress to the House that , under our eligibility verification measure , the DWP will not be able to access people ' s bank account or look at what they be spend . we will not share any personal information with bank . once an alert have be issue , any final decision about someone ' s benefit will always be take by a human being and the state pension will be exclude from the measure . there will also be independent oversight of the power on the face of the Bill , with the requirement to produce report and lie they before Parliament , which I will say more about in a moment . the Minister be outline the action she intend to take to ensure that error do not happen and that human will conduct any review . however , once a decision have be make — whether the error be genuine or not , the person should not have receive the money — the Bill set out that the person be still subject to all the measure that would be impose on people who have deliberately engage in fraud . that be the real worry . despite the Secretary of State ' s assurance , error will still be make . judgment will have to be make about whether the money , give in error , be recoverable , and if it be recoverable , it will be treat as if that be fraud . no , it will not be treat in the same way . there be much more we can do to use technology to prevent genuine mistake and error build up in the first place , but we also have to use all the technology and information - share ability we have to crack down on fraudster who will use anything they can to try to defraud the system . I will come to the wide safeguard in the Bill towards the end of my speech , but my hon . friend the Minister for Transformation and I will be more than happy to talk to the right hon . gentleman in more detail about any other concern he may have . on that point , will the Secretary of State give way ? I will ; I do promise to do so . I be interested to hear about the measure in the Bill relate to local authority and public authority . have the Secretary of State consider expand remit of the Public Sector Fraud Authority to investigate case of serious mismanagement of fund by local authority , such as the recent botched sale of Newquay airport by Conservative - control Cornwall council , which reportedly cost cornish taxpayer over £ 1 million in consultancy fee and the like ? the hon . Gentleman have make his point simply and clearly . the Bill be about tackle fraud and people who have defraud the public purse . I be sure his local newspaper will write his comment up very clearly . the fourth chapter of part 2 of the Bill be about widen our ability to punish fraudster use a financial penalty as an alternative to seek prosecution . at the moment , we can issue financial penalty only in case of benefit fraud . the Bill extend our ability to use they in case of fraud against any type of DWP payment — for example , if we have any future scheme like the kickstart employment scheme . that will ensure that more fraudster commit a wide range of fraud can be deal with swiftly without go to court . last but not least , the Bill give the DWP more power to get back public money that someone owe in case where they can repay it but repeatedly refuse to do so . this power do not cover people on benefit or in payrolle employment , because money can already be recover through the social security or pay - as - you - earn system , but for people who have move off benefit and be not on paye — for example , because they be self - employ or now live off saving — the Bill will enable the DWP to request the bank statement of people we know owe we money but who have repeatedly refuse to engage with we , to verify that they have sufficient fund to repay . we can then recover the money from their bank account through either a one - off lump sum or regular deduction . that will be do in a fair and manageable way , with time for the person to make any representation and the right to appeal . as a last resort , if someone owe we more than £ 1 , 000 and continue to repeatedly refuse to engage with we and agree how they will pay the money back , we can go to court and get an order to disqualify that person from drive for up to two year . this be the same power that the Child Maintenance Service have be able to use for the last 25 year in case where a parent repeatedly refuse to make payment to support their child . in consider a disqualification order , a court will always check whether the person need a drive licence for work , because take it away would be totally counterproductive if they do , and look at other reason why a license may be essential , such as if the person be disabled or a carer . the measure be for people who have repeatedly refuse to engage with the system . it be an important power that the DWP should have to bring people to the table for a discussion about how they will repay the money that they owe . we be clear that someone keep public money to which they be not entitle be serious , and will result in serious consequence . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for outline some of the Government ' s think behind clause 91 . will she elaborate on whether the Government have consider the fact that such a disqualification would have a disproportionate impact on somebody live in a remote area , compare with those in more urban area , where there be much great access to public transport ? as I say , the court will always look at whether the person need a car for their job , but we can not say that people be allow to get away with fraud in different part of the country . this be about get money back . the measure be for people who have repeatedly refuse to engage with we , and who we know have the money to repay what they owe . we can bring they to the table and have a discussion about that repayment . I think that most member of the public would think that that be totally reasonable and fair , and that be the new power that we will have . let I turn to the strong new safeguarding measure in the Bill . first , as I have say , there will be independent oversight in the Bill for the eligibility verification measure , and new power for the DWP and the Public Sector Fraud Authority to investigate fraud . I will appoint an independent person to oversee how the evm be be use and its effectiveness . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) , will also appoint an independent person to review the use of the psfa measure . both will be require to provide report to the Government , which will be publish and lay before Parliament . his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services will oversee the investigation power of the DWP and the Public Sector Fraud Authority . any complaint about the use of the new search and seizure power in the Bill will be refer to the Independent Office for Police Conduct . this be a genuine question on the power to request information : will the DWP be able to request information from charitable organisation that be perhaps provide support to people , or from Members of Parliament , who may be provide support to constituent who come through our door ? the eligibility verification measure be for bank and financial institution . it have be tightly define , which be one of the reason the Information Commissioner have write his response now . the last Conservative Government just refer to third - party datum . that be not a serious proposal , narrowly define with proper independent oversight . we want the legislation to pass and be use proportionately and effectively . that be why we have include the proposal as draft . the second important point be that there will be a statutory code of practice on how the power can be apply , which we will consult on during the passage of the Bill , to clearly define the scope and limitation . thirdly , there will always be vulnerability check for each individual under the new debt recovery power to ensure that people be not force to pay back money that they can not afford . last , but by no mean least , final decision affect benefit entitlement will always be make by a human being . those decision will sit alongside the right to review and appeal — no ifs , no but . put together , I believe that those new safeguard will provide the reassurance that the public and some member of this House need that the Bill ' s power be proportionate , safe and fair . the Bill deliver the big upgrade to the DWP ' s anti - fraud power in more than 14 year . it bring in new power to tackle fraud right across the public sector by empower the Public Sector Fraud Authority , and not before time . our approach be tough but fair : tough on criminal who cheat the system and steal from taxpayer ; tough on people who refuse to pay back money ; fair on claimant , by spot and stop error early , help to avoid people get into debt ; fair on those who play by the rule and rely on the social security system ; and fair on taxpayer , by ensure that every pound be spend wisely , responsibly and effectively on those who need it . we be elect on a mandate for change , and that be what the Bill will deliver . I call the shadow Secretary of State . a strongly hold conservative principle be that public money must not be waste . we hold this view not because we be mean , but because the Government do not have money of their own . what they have , they raise through taxation from all of we . a tiny fraction of every penny that they spend be yours , mine and everyone else ' s who pay in . those who spend public money have a duty to spend it wisely , and ensure that it end up only with those who should have it , for the purpose for which it be intend . in a big , complex system of government in a country of nearly 70 million people , from time to time that will not happen for a range of reason — from a form that have be accidentally fill in with the wrong information , or a change of circumstance that someone forget to notify the jobcentre about , to serious organise fraud — but however taxpayer have lose out , it be incumbent on the state to do all that it can to get their money back . that be what taxpayer rightly expect . it be part of the unwritten contract for collect that money in the first place . therefore , it will be no surprise to hear that , in principle , we support the Bill ' s aim . in fact , much of the Bill continue work that we do in government , and legislation that be interrupt by the election . it be important to put what we be discuss today in context . before the pandemic , fraud and error across the DWP benefit and tax credit system be at a near record low , but then we have two national crisis — first , the pandemic , then war in Ukraine — which pile huge cost of living pressure on family across the UK . during both , we act rapidly . we set up never - see - before system of support in record time . we protect million of people ' s job . we pay half of everyone ' s energy bill for a year . we get direct payment to the people who need they the most . I be proud of what we do , and I think that history will look back kindly on how we support people through those time , but the truth be that when we do something fast at a moment of crisis , that inevitably open up new vulnerability in the system . disappointingly , against a national spirit of get through hard time together , some people see it as a chance to make a quick buck , and we see a material increase in the amount be lose to fraud within the system . any and all of we could spell out well use for that money . that be why , back in May 2022 , we publish our plan , " fight Fraud in the Welfare System " . we increase the number of frontline counter - fraud professional in the DWP , create a new Public Sector Fraud Authority and start work on new legal power to investigate and punish fraudster . it be a good start . in 2022 - 23 , fraud and error be cut by 10 % . we save £ 1 billion through the Department ' s dedicated counter - fraud activity . the next year we up that to £ 1 . 35 billion , exceed the £ 1 . 3 billion target , yet we be still not satisfied . in May last year , we publish a second fraud plan to save £ 9 billion by 2027 - 28 , which include hire more staff to check claim for accuracy , modernise information - gather power , broaden the penalty system and invest £ 70 million in advanced data analytic . in April , we announce plan for a new fraud Bill to align DWP investigation with HMRC , treat benefit fraud like tax fraud and give investigator new power to make seizure and arrest . when the general election be call , the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill have already pass through the House of Commons . the Bill include the power the Government be introduce today to require third party , such as bank , to provide relevant information to the DWP . to the extent that this Bill continue that work , I do not envisage substantial disagreement — albeit we have question on how the law will work in practice . I also have serious concern about the power that the Cabinet Office be give itself . before I deal with those , let I say that I recognise the concern that people have about the state get too much information about their finance . privacy should never be take lightly . I do not want to live in a country where the Government can access our bank account and look at what we have be spend our money on , and I would not support a Bill that would allow the Government to do that , but I believe that it be right for the DWP to learn lesson from HMRC to recoup taxpayer ' money . the fact of the matter be that if someone receive money from the state , it be not unreasonable for the state to investigate if there be sign they be take money that they should not be . as I say , I have some question about how the social security power in the Bill will be put into practice , and I expect to probe those matter far as the Bill progress . for instance , on the role of bank , how much testing have be do of the system that they expect to use ? the Horizon scandal be a recent reminder of how computer system do not always get it right . what progress have be make on the code of conduct , and when will we see it ? I also note that no impact assessment have be do on the cost to bank . have the Minister meet the sector and discuss what the change mean for it ? I know there be concern within the sector about the lack of detail bring forward by the DWP . if the maximum level of scrutiny allow under the Bill be demand by the DWP , how would that work in practice for bank and what would it cost ? on the sanction that can be mete out under the Bill , we support the Department for Work and Pensions be give further power to pursue recovery outside of benefit and PAYE , but be the measure outline in the Bill tough enough ? why be 40 % the maximum amount of someone ' s capital that can be reclaim ? allow for hardship , which the Bill do , why should someone potentially keep the majority of their ill - get gain ? it be not clear how the Bill intend to treat carer ' s allowance overpayment , which I know from my time as Care Minister be complicated and often accidental , though unfortunately not always . none the less , they be a loss to the taxpayer that should be investigate . we would like to understand in more detail how the saving we be tell to expect from the Bill will accrue . how many people do the Government think that will affect , and what proportion be it of the fraud currently be perpetrate ? I be concern the other day to see report in the medium of a number of artificial intelligence scheme be quietly shelve in the Department . it be noticeable that the plan rely heavily on human labour to root out fraud . while I know the Government have to create job somehow , I would be interested to hear what consideration have be give to automate some of the process in future . that too will help ensure that taxpayer ' money do not go to waste . I come to my main area of concern , which be the power be give to Cabinet Office Ministers and the Public Sector Fraud Authority . I know what it be like to make legislation think that I , as a good person , would only use it wisely , but I also know what it be like to be wrongly investigate by a public authority on the ground of a misleading newspaper article . look at the investigatory power bestow in chapter 2 of the Bill , how could one not be worried to see a Minister be give power , with little oversight , to compel a person to release whatever information they wish , in any format demand , within 10 day , along with the information of anyone connect to they , on any ground that the Minister deem " reasonable " — and to disclose that information to whomever they think necessary , with the sole right of appeal be only to that Minister ? it could be impossible for someone to comply within the timeframe give , yet the Bill include fine set at £ 300 a day for miss the deadline . of course the Government should go after fraudster , but I worry that some of that power could be abuse and that , in its current form , it may breach law on the state take someone ' s property without due process . I would be interested to hear if expert in the legal sector have be consult on the legislation as draft . have Ministers engage with the Law Society , the Bar Council or , for that matter , organisation like Liberty and Justice ? in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Cabinet Office , it be right to pursue fraudster with the full might of the law , but the end can not justify all mean and the process must always be fair , reasonable and proportionate . I look forward to further discussion on the detail of the Bill , and I be sure that colleague in the other place will be prepare for that , too . in the meantime , we must not let the Bill distract from the elephant in the room . for every penny the Bill will save — welcome though that be — it will do nothing about the billion of pound that will be rack up in sickness benefit under this Labour Government . it be staggering that they do not come into office with a plan . they have do nothing to halt the tide in the seven month they have be in office , and I hear that they have shelve some of the work we hand over . we have hear not a murmur about what they will actually do , just briefing after brief to the paper . why not bring an actual plan to Parliament rather than talk to the paper ? I suspect you , Madam Deputy Speaker , might agree with I on that point . we have a plan — where be theirs ? every day the Government scramble about without a plan cost taxpayer million . fraud and error in the system be a problem , and I be pleased to pledge the Opposition ' s support for tackle they , but let we not use this Bill as a distraction from the big issue . we all agree that the welfare system need reform . let we end the briefing and have some action . before I call the next speaker , I just want to make it clear that after the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , I will call the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) . it be absolutely right that fraud against the taxpayer , whoever it be by , be detect , that money be recover and that future fraud be prevent . we see fraud during covid when , for example , the abuse of the bounce back loan scheme cost the taxpayer nearly £ 5 . 5 billion . there be also covid - relate contract fraud , such as the purchasing of unusable personal protective equipment , which be outrageous . as my right hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) mention , the National Audit Office identify six area of fraud risk against the public sector , estimate to cost the taxpayer between £ 55 billion and £ 85 billion . they be grant fraud , which be the misappropriation or misuse of grant money ; service user fraud , which we have focus on today ; procurement and commercial fraud ; income evasion ; internal fraud and corruption ; and regulatory fraud . in its 2023 - 24 annual report and account , the DWP estimate that it make overpayment — include fraud and error — of £ 9 . 7 billion out of the £ 269 billion that it spend . that be 6 . 7 % of related expenditure . however , it also make underpayment of £ 4 . 2 billion — that be 1 . 6 % of related expenditure — up from £ 3 . 5 billion the previous year , because of underpayment of disability living allowance . within that , there be different level of fraud for different benefit type . for universal credit , the level of overpayment for the same period be 13 . 2 % . that be down from a peak of 21 % in early 2020 , during the covid pandemic , when some of the control be suspend to speed up the application process . in fact , by value , two third of all overpayment be on universal credit — £ 6 . 5 billion out of £ 9 . 7 billion . the DWP have try to argue that the increase in fraud in the social security system reflect an increase in fraudulent behaviour in society . however , that do not explain why the overpayment be concentrate in universal credit account , or why , for example , there be a 10 % reduction in fraud incident report in the crime survey for England and Wales between 2023 and 2024 . the National Audit Office and Public Accounts Committee agree . in its recent report on the DWP ' s annual account , the PAC say that it be not convince by the DWP ' s claim , add that that be a " dangerous mindset " . the Committee also produce the follow context , which we should all consider : " it be concern that DWP be not provide a decent service to all its customer , who include some of the most vulnerable in society and some of those with the most complex need . in particular , claimant of disability benefit , include Personal Independence Payment ( PIP ) and Employment and Support Allowance ( ESA ) , be receive an unacceptably poor service include processing time compare with those receive Universal Credit ( UC ) and State Pension . " I worry that many of those disabled claimant , make vulnerable by their circumstance , be receive less than the DWP estimate that they be entitle to . I believe that there be a genuine commitment from Ministers to change the DWP ' s culture and build trust with its service user , but the Bill will be see by many as more evidence not to trust the DWP and not to engage . I be not alone in that ; in evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee inquiry on safeguard vulnerable claimant , Citizens Advice raise concern that the failure to engage be the second large category that the DWP class as fraud , and that when the enhanced review team identify a household as have potentially make a fraudulent claim , payment may be immediately suspend . Citizens Advice recommend that the detriment cause by such a suspension should not take place while the fraud review process be ongoing . Disability Rights UK , UK Finance and other have raise concern about the lack of systemic safeguard in the Bill . to their credit , Ministers have accept that and will look at it as a whole . however , Ministers — particularly those from the last Conservative Government — will remember the housing benefit fraud allegation , in which more than 200 , 000 people be wrongly accuse of and investigate for housing benefit fraud and error last June . an AI algorithm — which the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , just say we should be use more of — incorrectly identify people as potentially behave fraudulently , and they be investigate . that be really serious . what level of investigation of innocent people do minister consider acceptable ? policy in Practice have also raise concern about underclaiming , barrier to access support , the lack of value for money of the DWP ' s fraud detection , prevention and recovery system , which address less than 5 % of the debt owe , and how the focus on fraudulent claim be " spoil the system for the 97 % of ' genuine ' benefit claim " , fuel belief about benefit cheat , and detracting from " the million of household that be rightfully and legitimately support by a social safety net design to be there for all of we when we need it . " I have question for the Ministers , some of which I have raise with they before . what risk assessment of the Bill have be undertake ? I know that there be an impact assessment and a human right assessment . what be the risk , what mitigation have be put in place , and will the Government publish they ? how be safeguard concern , include the Caldicott principle and the responsibility of the Caldicott guardian — which the DWP have , to its credit , now put in place — address in the Bill ? this Bill be too important for we to mess it up and for innocent people to become the victim . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) for lay out very concisely some of the challenge in ensure that the Bill do the right thing without go too far and break the thing that people want fix . clearly , defraud the benefit system be wrong . one need only reflect on the level of disinvestment in many of our public service by the previous Government to note how that can bleed the system dry . I reflect on my own Torbay constituency , where the hospital tower block have scaffold around it not because it be under repair , but to prevent bit of concrete from fall and kill people . I reflect on the lack of investment in our school ; the challenge with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete mean that the necessary capital programme will not happen for the next six year . I reflect on the lack of investment in our police service , which mean that the number of swear officer have massively reduce . those be serious issue that affect we follow the lack of investment under the previous Government . the Conservative Government be asleep at the wheel during the covid pandemic , as the Secretary of State allude to in clear term . Businesspeople in Torbay tell I that they feel Rishi Sunak be — order . I remind the hon . Gentleman that we refer to member not by name but by constituency . I think he be refer to the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . those businesspeople feel that the then Chancellor of the Exchequer be fill carrier bag full of £ 50 note and place they around town , expect people just to pick they up , so low be the safeguard for a number of the covid support scheme . I will move on to an item that have already be cover by a number of colleague : the carer scandal . More than 136 , 000 people — equivalent to the population of West Bromwich — have be leave with liability of £ 250 million that they be extremely worried about . the Government have quite rightly commission a review , but it be due to report not in the near future but next summer . I challenge the Minister : why not wait for that review ' s finding before we push hard on these proposal , so that we can ensure that lesson be learn ? we want fraud to be tackle , but we want it do in the right way . there have be just seven work day between this Bill ' s First Reading and its second reading . large tract of the safeguard and the rail around it be out for consultation as we speak , which we need if we be to understand what safeguard there will be to protect our community . colleague have already mention AI , and they be right to have do so , because there be real concern about a lack of transparency — [ interruption . ] sorry , Jennie be join in ; she be have a dream about rabbit . as Liberal Democrats have already highlight , we do not know what safeguard there will be around the use of AI . how can we back the Bill until we know what safeguard will exist ? I would like to reflect on how the Bill can contain those appropriate safeguard . sadly , as the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth highlight , the DWP be a broken Department . bear in mind the money that have be claim back from unpaid carer and our concern about the DWP , do the hon . Member agree that this legislation would see more unpaid carer or their like come under far hard and harsh penalty ? I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention ; he have highlight a serious issue , and he be spot on . one have only to reflect on the significant backlog , with 90 , 000 people wait for their pension to be review as part of the winter fuel allowance issue — that be a massive backlog . access to Work , which be mean to support people with disability into work , be sadly another broken system . quite often , those wish to receive support find that job offer be withdraw because their work package have not be pull together in time . an academic survey have highlight that over three year , sadly , almost 600 people commit suicide around the management of their support from the DWP . I suggest to the Secretary of State that , while one understand the aspiration of this Bill , it be far too much of a Big Brother Bill . it be far too much of a snooper charter , and I suggest to the Government that they withdraw it . I thank the Secretary of State for introduce this important Bill . Fraud be a serious issue , and we simply can not tolerate the level of fraud that the previous Government leave we with . in the year 2023 - 24 , we lose almost as much to fraud as we spend on defence . we have all hear the story of people fraudulently claim covid support and benefit to which they be not entitle . People have be claim from the safety net not for security in their time of need , but to feather their own nest on the back of british taxpayer . I be glad that this Government be serious about protect public money from fraudster , and I have no time for the whataboutery of the Liberal Democrats . this robust Bill close loophole , strengthen enforcement and prioritise financial accountability . it be a great step forward for the real change that we promise at the election . the message from I and my constituent be quite clear : those who defraud or attempt to defraud the british public in any way deserve to feel the full weight of the law . I believe in do what be right to protect taxpayer and hard - work people in business , which be why I will not stand by while fraudster take advantage of the system . the Bill say , " if you have defraud the british taxpayer , we will come for you , and we will not mess about . " that be what people in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield want . turn specifically to the strengthening of measure on covid fraud , I be proud that one of the first action take by this Government be to appoint the covid corruption commissioner , and that the Bill bolster the commissioner ' s power and double the time limit in which civil claim can be bring , among other measure . a typical example of rampant covid corruption be the bounce back loan , which have already be refer to by other member . those loan see million of pound of public money shovel out of the door of the Treasury without proper oversight . we have all read the story and hear about some of the heinous outcome — huge amount of public money go to fake company as well as people use steal identity or provide product that be either defective or just plain do not exist . meanwhile , I have have to explain to my constituent why basic public service have go to the wall . to put it into perspective , all in , the previous Government hand the equivalent of £ 20 , 000 of taxpayer ' cash to fraudster every minute of the last Parliament , and now conservative Members moan that there be no money for anything . if this Bill have become law early , much of that fraud could have be prevent by allow strong eligibility verification procedure , fast detection of fraudulent transaction and fast financial recovery power for quick action against fraudster . move on to benefit fraud and the Department for Work and Pensions , the same principle apply : those who defraud the british public will feel the full weight of the law , and will have nowhere to hide . we have a moral duty to recover every penny of public money that have be defraud , and I be glad that the Bill full - throatedly say so . benefit fraud have triple since 2019 , and since then we have lose almost £ 10 billion overall to fraud and error . as the now Leader of the opposition say while in government , fraudster be let " off the hook " by the Tories . People who work hard to pay their taxis deserve to know that every pound steal be a pound that can not be spend on public service , and they deserve to have that money return . it be simply unforgivable that the previous Government allow fraud in the benefit system to get to this level . by vote in favour of the Bill , we will allow this Government crucial investigatory and search and seizure power that be essential if we really want to tackle fraud in this country . I know that there will be concern from some quarter , but I be reassure that the Secretary of State have take into consideration the necessary safeguard that will balance the need for effective fraud prevention and recovery . indeed , if during the passage of the Bill she find a way to be tough and go far , she should do it ; I be not sure whether two year be enough for a driving ban . the power we be extend to the Public Sector Fraud Authority have already prove effective . they be use by the DWP and by HMRC , and by expand they , we will recover more fund and bring more fraudster to justice . this be the first update to those power in 20 year , as the Secretary of State say . of course , DWP investigator should be give warrant power , to save police time if nothing else . the safeguard be in the Bill to make sure we tackle fraud effectively and , as importantly , protect people ' s right , as the Secretary of State have also say . to address a point raise a second ago by the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , decision will be make by a human being in the final stage , as with any decision that affect somebody ' s benefit . I think that be right , and clearly it be something that the Secretary of State have try to stipulate . People in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield expect their money to be use effectively , and they demand accountability , with fraudster who exploit the system be hold to account and lock up if necessary . as the Secretary of State say , the Bill be tough but fair , with measure design to save an awful lot of money over the next five year . that be a promising step that I believe will restore public trust and tackle financial mismanagement . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for take the issue so seriously — more power to her elbow . I would like to echo many of the point raise by the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) . like she , I be a conditional supporter of the Bill . while I welcome its intent , I would like to raise a few question regard its implementation and its true impact on reduce fraud and error in the system . conservative Members understand three core principle : the importance of promote personal responsibility , the importance of law and order , and of course , the importance of reduce the burden of an overreach state and ensure that taxpayer ' money be spend efficiently . I be therefore pleased that by introduce this legislation , the Secretary of State appear to have accept the long - stand argument make by Conservative Members . the Bill , much like the previous Government ' s policy paper , be both necessary and overdue . it be a scandal that fraud and error in the DWP benefit system have reach such level . since the pandemic , the UK taxpayer have overpay £ 8 billion due to a lack of proper provision for the DWP to thoroughly investigate case of fraud and error . this Bill maintain the focus of the previous Government ' s policy paper on fight fraud in the system . under the previous Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , the DWP see a 10 % drop in fraud and error in the system , which lead to saving of over £ 2 billion between 2022 and 2024 . that be achieve through the Department recruit over 2 , 000 review agent and hire 1 , 400 counter - fraud professional . unfortunately , due to time constraint at the end of the last parliamentary session , my right hon . friend be unable to carry out the modernisation of information - gather power or to broaden the scope of case that could lead to civil penalty . I have no doubt that , have those conservative policy be fully implement , fraud and error level would be low than they be now . turn to the Bill , although I support its principle , I seek clarification from the Secretary of State on several key point . first , can the Secretary of State guarantee that this Bill will not distract she and the Department from much - need reform to benefit conditionality , include work on health assessment and increase incentive for people to find work ? my hon . friend be make an excellent contribution and I support what he be say . we must get benefit fraud down and I support some of the measure in the Bill . on the point he have just raise , do he agree that this be only one side of the coin in deal with benefit in this country ? of course , we must do everything we can to get benefit fraud down , but the other side of the coin be encourage people to go back to work , because the good form of welfare be have a well - pay job . I absolutely agree with all the sentiment my hon . friend have express . get a job be the good route out of poverty , and it be the good route to ensure that we have a more socially mobile society . secondly , my instinctive belief in personal liberty mean that I believe provision allow access to individual bank account must be handle with caution . can the Secretary of State therefore confirm that such measure will be use only as a last resort , and that the independent person appoint by the Cabinet Office will be give full oversight and will report transparently on the use of these power ? thirdly , the Bill propose the restriction of drive licence for those commit fraud against the DWP , but what alternative deterrent do the Secretary of State propose for those who do not drive ? his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the Child Maintenance Service already have these power . I would like to see the independent person assess whether these measure be as impactful at the DWP . fourthly , Gareth Davies , the Comptroller and Auditor General at the National Audit Office , write last year that the forecast " show that DWP no long expect Universal Credit fraud and error to return to the level see before … the COVID - 19 pandemic " . in response , the DWP explain that this be because there have be an " increase propensity " for deceit across british society . I do hope that the Secretary of State will push back against this defeatist culture in the DWP and that my constituent in Mid Leicestershire do not continue to foot an astronomical bill for people commit fraud in the Department . finally , to gauge the correct path when deal with fraud and error in the system , will the independent person conduct a review to determine whether the provision in this Bill be just as effective as the conservative policy of the previous Government ? in conclusion , as a Conservative , I support the intent of this Bill . it be shock that fraud and error be at current level . however , I urge the Secretary of State to work collaboratively with member across the House to ensure that individual freedom be respect , that the Bill do not distract from wide welfare reform and that its measure deliver a long - term reduction in the welfare bill . this Bill be crucial for deliver on this Government ' s manifesto commitment to safeguard taxpayer ' money . as the Secretary of State have rightly state , we must be " turn off the tap to criminal who cheat the system and steal law - abide taxpayer ' money . " in Wales alone , the national fraud initiative find £ 7 . 1 million of fraud and payment error in 2022 - 23 , up by £ 0 . 6 million since the previous year . figure such as this show just how much a blight on the economy fraud and error continue to be . I have hear at first hand from constituent about instance of benefit fraud that they be well aware of , such as individual use past address to make claim to which they be not entitle . they know that this be not right , and they expect we to take action . it be also essential that we crack down on organise crime gang and streamline the process through which DWP investigator can act to bring these serious offender to justice more swiftly . I welcome this Government ' s crackdown on fraud , because every £ 1 lose to fraudulent claim be £ 1 that could be spend on vital public service — service that my constituent in Clwyd North rely on to strengthen our community and improve life . however , it be crucial that we make a clear distinction between intentional fraud and accidental individual error . error lead to overpayment may be the result not of deliberate wrongdoing , but of the inherent complexity of the social security system itself . many of my constituent have share their struggle with the complexity of apply for benefit , and know what to apply for and how . this cause significant stress , and it exemplify the risk of penalise individual who may simply have be unable to navigate the system , far entrench the fear of make a mistake . the Bill must therefore go hand in hand with reform to make this navigation far more straightforward . a YouGov survey for turn2us in 2024 find that 77 % of respondent believe they would struggle when they need to claim benefit if their circumstance change . this highlight the real challenge that people face in navigate a system that be often confusing and difficult to understand . the Government must ensure that their power to recover overpayment differentiate between fraudulent criminal activity and genuine mistake . without this distinction , there be a risk of penalise individual who have simply struggle to navigate the system , and those people may already be in vulnerable situation . get this Bill right , however , will mean that £ 1 . 5 billion of taxpayer ' money over five year will be save . that money can be invest in the service that people in my constituency and across the country rely on , from public transport to local infrastructure . with fraud and error cost nearly £ 10 billion a year , we must act decisively to drive down this fraud and error and protect public fund . at a time when family be struggle and public service be under pressure , ensure that taxpayer ' money be spend where it be truly need be not just responsible , but essential . this Bill must tackle fraud and error in a way that be fair and proportionate and do not punish those who have make an honest mistake . I know that the Government have work hard to include measure that will ensure that these critical distinction be make as the Bill progress . however , it be crucial that we do not shy away from come down on this issue , and that we ensure constituent see their hard - earn contribution go directly to the service that strengthen our community . this Bill be , at heart , conservative legislation leave over from the most dark corner of the last Administration , and I have no qualm about oppose it . I will speak against give it a second reading and , alongside my fellow Green Members , will vote against it later . one of the change that people want to see when they vote out the last Government be a welfare system that treat people with dignity and respect . sadly , this Bill be instead base on blame and suspicion of people in need of help . it have a focus on fraud when a far big issue be unclaimed and under - claim benefit due to a lack of awareness , complexity in the system and stigma . the people lose out be not help by this legislation . the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , set out the risk of damage trust in and engagement with the DWP . we also have the risk of reignite damaging and unfair stereotype from some people involve in wide debate on these issue on social medium , in newspaper and in broadcast medium . all in all , this Bill be deeply concern and disappointing , and I have hope well of this Government on this issue . I sincerely hope that Ministers will go back to the drawing board and come up with a new , fair and humane policy for deal with what be a very small proportion of fraud in our benefit system . I have have so much correspondence on this from constituent who be very concerned about the Bill ' s sweep power to invade their privacy and treat they as suspect , not citizen . I be talk about pensioner who need pension credit , people who be permanently disabled and whose entitlement to employment and support allowance be clear and settle , people who be precariously underemployed or unemployed who need universal credit , family carer , and people who be simply on low wage and can not make end meet . these be citizen , not suspect . the clause about what appear to be routine and regular Government access to information from bank account for eligibility verification — not link to serious crime — most concern I . I be also opposed to the clause that increase power of search and access to home for more serious matter , and those that would remove drive licence from people who be have difficulty pay back to the DWP overpay money due to what may simply be human error at a difficult time in their life , not fraud at all . I therefore suggest that the Government come back to this House with the part relate to covid fraud and to contractor and business , and maybe add something on the much big problem of tax fraud . on the rest , I suggest that they start again with a process of genuine listening and co - production , with those who claim social security , about appropriate , fair , respectful and secure way of ensure that people in need of support can receive what they be entitle to , and to protect in a proportionate way against those who may seek to defraud the Government or local authority . this process would fit together very well with the recent proposal from the charity mind in response to other upcoming change to benefit process , which ask for a new approach to the benefit system and a commission lead by disabled people to redesign benefit assessment . Mind say that this kind of process would help to rebuild trust between disabled people and the DWP . I agree , and my personal view be that this Bill will do the absolute opposite . in summary , I believe that this Bill should go no far , and I and my Green colleague will be vote accordingly today , to stand up for our constituent ' right and dignity and for social security base not on intrusion and suspicion , but on support . I wish to make a few point . first , it would have be impossible not to note the zeal of the Secretary of State when she be bang on the Dispatch Box and talk about fraud and loss to the taxpayer , and she be right to do that . we , on this side of the House at least , believe in public expenditure , and therefore there be a duty on we to ensure that every single penny be spend in an appropriate manner . so where it be waste or steal or fraud be go on , we should bear down on it . however , although the Secretary of State start off with that zeal and passion in talk about the gang and other , she talk most about benefit claimant . although the Bill set up power for the fraud authority , it deal largely with the question of fraud in the benefit system . but the title of the Bill mention both fraud and error , and not enough time have be spend in this debate on the nature of error , which be far big than can be easily acknowledge . I look at the figure for PIP . between 2019 and 2024 some one in four case for alleged fraud by PIP recipient be drop before reach appeal , indicate the decision have lapse because the Department have decide in favour of the appellant . that indicate the scale of the error that this Bill also want to address . I be go to refer to a couple of case in a moment or two , but at the core of this Bill be the creation , effectively , of a partnership between the state and the private bank , and the Bill do not make clear what that partnership will look like . I hope that we get some clarity on that before the Bill reach Committee . the bank themselves have say that they be very worried about this Bill , because they have a statutory duty , impose by this House , to make sure that they deal properly with vulnerable client . the bank have say there be a contradiction between the content of this Bill and the obligation that fall on they and their duty to treat people who be vulnerable in a proper way . I want to reflect on that briefly . let I give the House a case from my own constituency that be symptomatic of a wide problem . a couple be refer to my office . they both have learn difficulty , both be illiterate and innumerate , and they find it impossible on their own to fill in the dozen and dozen of question which the form require people to fill in to get access to the benefit . so they be help to put the form together by people employ to look after such people . the DWP then decide , year later , that it have make an error and have overpay the couple by a large amount . this error come to light as a result of a review of some kind in the Department . so here be a very poor and vulnerable couple who be unable to fill in the form on their own and who have be help by professional , and what do the state do ? it send they a bill for £ 20 , 000 . all Members will have a great deal of empathy — they would not be in this job otherwise — so we can imagine the state that couple be in when they receive a bill from the state to repay £ 20 , 000 . it be discover after they come to my office that they have in fact fill in all the form correctly ; this be a computer error cause by someone fail to key in some of the information that have be provide to the DWP . neither the council which be help they nor their support worker spot the fact they be be overpay ; nobody spot it , so this go on for a number of year and the sum reach £ 20 , 000 . a deeply vulnerable couple be leave in that situation . eventually they encounter a local councillor in my constituency who refer they to I . we go through the whole thing and manage to make an appeal on their behalf . but this Bill give people only 28 day once they have receive an order to pay . it take we long than 28 day to resolve this once it have get into my office . I just say to the Secretary of State that 28 day be not long enough in these complicated case for people to produce the evidence to show they be a victim of error rather than they have commit a fraud . there be a presumption by the state that they have commit a fraud of £ 20 , 000 , totally incorrectly , it turn out . I worry that the Bill will put people like my constituent , and I imagine constituent of every Member in this House , in the same position . my constituent be fortunate to find an MP , but many people in that situation would not know how to find their way through the system . that raise the question I have refer to about the bank . the bank have a statutory duty to protect vulnerable customer . how will they exercise that duty when they be be require to provide information to the DWP about the financial activity of various individual bank with they ? on the subject of vulnerability , Disability Rights UK tell we that one third of all claimant of legacy benefit have mental health problem . I imagine that most of those people would be regard as vulnerable by the bank and by every humane person in this House . one therefore wonder just exactly how we will reconcile the statutory duty on the bank with what they be require to do in relation to this Bill . we be give power to this fraud authority . I personally be in favour of tackling fraud , as I have say — I be a Yorkshireman , and I do not like spend money . I do not like money be spend wastefully by the state either , and when I be the leader of Leeds city council , everyone know I be strong on waste . finally on vulnerability , have the Government commission and receive an equality impact assessment ? if they have , can that be place in the Commons Library , because the Bill will clearly have an impact on people who be extremely vulnerable ? I think something somewhere in the Department will refer to that impact assessment . I will make a couple of final point . it be suggest that the Bill will save £ 300 million a year by tackle benefit fraud . that be a large amount of money , but we can compare it with the £ 10 billion of fraud on personal protective equipment provide during covid , the £ 16 billion lose to the taxpayer in fraudulent covid scheme , the £ 5 . 5 billion a year of tax evasion , or the £ 6 billion of other illegal activity against HMRC . the £ 300 million be important , but it be not the large amount of fraud that be take place . the fraud authority be get new power and will be staff up . how will it choose among the disproportionate amount by which the state be be defraud by various different agency , by private individual and , frankly , by some gangster , too ? will the staffing be allocate accord to the prejudice of politician — whichever politician be then in charge — or will it be allocate proportionately to the loss to the taxpayer incur through different form of fraud ? my final point be on the Information Commissioner . the Secretary of State suddenly announce that she receive a letter today — it would be interesting to read it — but the Information Commissioner have be suggest that the power be disproportionate . we need to see the letter , and hopefully it will go into the Library or somewhere . clause 74 , which empower schedule 3 to the Bill , go right to the kernel of the problem with this Bill , which could not be clear . I be worried that it be not apparent how the intervention of bank will be invoke . schedule 3 allow the bank to be invoke and then for action to take place . will the bank account of every single citizen in the UK be look at ? that be the view of some campaign group in society . if so , that be a massive incursion into the liberty that the british people hold dear . if not , how will the bank be ask to identify particular individual ? what process will be go through ? that be not clear , and the Bill do not explain it . I have read clause 74 two or three time , as have many other people . finally , can we be assure — not necessarily now , but as the Bill progress through its various stage — exactly how that right of appeal will work ? I have just refer to the 28 - day cut - off , but will the Secretary of State look again at that ? it seem to I that it be slightly too tight . it be an honour to follow such an excellent speech from the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) . as a Welsh Liberal Democrat , I find myself concerned with the civil liberty aspect of this Bill , particularly the influence and power it give to the big bank . I spend seven year work in datum privacy as a data protection consultant , and read this Bill create more question than it answer . I work on dataset involve different business , government and organisation from across the world . in particular , I want to speak to the point around the bank , because as we speak , customer from Lloyds and Halifax can not access their bank account because of an outage . we should be concern about make bank the judge , jury and executioner of social policy , particularly with something as important as welfare policy . the UK have strong datum protection law that have be carefully negotiate over time and inherit from the European Union , and this Bill threaten to erode some of those protection and implicate treaty that we have already sign , such as the data adequacy agreement we have with the European Union . if the EU be to turn around and say that it be unhappy with the Government ' s decision to monitor their subject and citizen in this way , that would create many more problem for organisation across the UK . citizen should have the right to object to automated decision making , and I struggle to see how ask bank to scan their dataset for potential fraud could not be regard as decision making . let we give citizen the right to be able to object to these decision be make about they . if we do not , we might be violate the data privacy agreement that be already in place . what do the Government expect the process to look like , when they be ask the bank to provide this information ? the Secretary of State say that the information would be provide in a digital format , but what will that actually look like in practice ? what could go wrong if , as have be mention , the bank be have to relay huge dataset to the Government and to the DWP in particular ? that could create honeypot of datum that might be easy for hacker to intercept and interfere with . in data protection , if there be not datum integrity , availability and confidentiality , essentially all of the agreement that exist with the data subject and the data processor can be say not to be valid . I therefore wonder what the Government see as the perfect framework for this datum to be provide . do it mean that the bank will have to export the name of everyone who have more than £ 16 , 000 in saving and send that to the Government to see whether they be in receipt of welfare payment ? one of the core principle of a free society be the right to privacy , yet in its current form , this Bill represent an intrusion by the state into the privacy of individual citizen . under the Bill , the Government would be grant sweeping power to access and monitor the personal financial record of citizen , even without any evidence of suspicious activity to justify such action . many people be in receipt of welfare payment through no fault of their own , and this Bill could result in the mass surveillance of private financial information , potentially affect 9 . 4 million citizen . the presumption of innocence be a cornerstone of our justice system , yet the Bill would fundamentally alter that principle . under the Bill , individual could be presume guilty until prove innocent , with their personal datum share , investigate and scrutinise without sufficient cause or due process . that set a dangerous precedent , where the burden of proof fall on citizen , not the state . we have all see the devastating impact of error make by the Department for Work and Pensions on individual . such a system could lead to disastrous consequence , where it falsely flag someone as fraudulent due to simple administrative error or unintentional mistake . the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth acknowledge that the bank have raise concern about whether they be the right organisation to do this . the Bill risk create a two - tier society where certain group be subject to intrusive financial monitoring by the state while other be not , which would undermine the principle of equality and fairness that our society be build on . in the current climate where bank be close branch leave , right and centre — Lloyds bank have announce that it will close its branch in Pontardawe — the Government should not be ask bank to act as judge , jury and executioner in social welfare policy while grant themselves access to people ' s bank account but not require those bank to ensure that citizen have access to their bank account . that do not sit well with the liberal society that I want to live in , and I do not believe that my citizen want to live in such a society , either . I call on the Government to rethink their proposal and to assure we that the Bill will not undermine our data protection adequacy agreement with the European Union . we have hear lot of statistic and detailed policy question , but I want to start by share two story . the first be of Antonia Foods in Wood Green , north London . from the outside , it look like a normal neighbourhood corner shop selling fruit , veg and grocery , but from its back room Galina Nikolova and Gyunesh Ali run a vast fraud operation , make use of transnational network to file hundred of illegal UC claim . by the time they be catch , they have defraud the DWP of over £ 50 million . when the police finally raid their address , they find case stuff with cash . Nikolova and Ali receive prison sentence , as do many of their associate , but the reality be that most of the money they claim have long since disappear , likely spirit out of the country . they have successfully steal from we all . the second story be of Yvonne , a disabled woman who be pay thousand of pound more in benefit than she be entitle to over a number of year as a result of an innocent mistake and be now struggle to make end meet as the DWP deduct overpayment from her current entitlement . both those story illustrate why we so desperately need the Bill . the extent to which fraud against the public purse spread under the last Government be breathtake . the proportion be simply staggering . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , public sector loss amount to £ 55 billion last year — as much as the defence budget , and three time what we spend on police in England and Wales . that loss cost every man , woman and child £ 800 a year and be the equivalent of a third of the entire national vat take . this be not a victimless crime or some technical infringement . it rob every family in Britain , erode our public service and take money that could be use to help those most in need , deprive the most vulnerable of support . my constituent in Hendon and people across the country rightly expect it to be tackle . this be a crime that feed on the most disadvantaged and weaken not only public service but the public ' s faith in those service and their fairness . I say gently to those who have criticise the Bill that there be nothing progressive and nothing compassionate about allow fraud to fester . it be a scourge that must be tackle . it be a scourge that grow out of control and be professionalise under the last government . perhaps no area illustrate the challenge that we face , how it evolve and the last government ' s catastrophic failure to kerb fraud well than benefit . the DWP ' s net bill for fraud and error , even after deduct underpayment , be £ 8 . 6 billion . that be £ 272 a second , £ 16 , 300 a minute and almost £ 1 million an hour . in the time that it will take for we to have the debate , the DWP will have lose more than £ 3 million . the bill for fraud and error be roughly the same as the Department ' s entire programme budget . the DWP lose as much to fraud and error as it spend on every active programme it have to help the unemployed , the long term - sick , those with disability and the elderly . the picture be shocking , and it get much bad under the conservative party . the headline figure for fraud and error exclude underpayment triple in cash term between 2010 and 2024 from £ 3 . 3 billion to £ 9 . 7 billion . as bad as those figure be , they actually understate how badly thing deteriorate under the Conservatives . claimant error rise only slightly in cash term , while official error remain flat . in contrast , fraud rise a stunning sevenfold in cash term and more than fourfold as a proportion of the total benefit budget . that be not some act of God ; it be the result of serial failure by the Conservatives , who fail to understand that fraud be evolve and fail to modernise the DWP ' s power to allow it to keep up in the arm race with the fraudster . they also make truly terrible policy and design choice that actively fuel the fraud crisis . that can be see nowhere well than in how the Conservatives set up universal credit . because of their failure in properly establish and police its gateway , it become a magnet for fraud . universal credit account for just 22 % of benefit spending but contribute over 76 % of all benefit fraud . almost £ 1 in every £ 9 claim through UC in the Conservatives ' last year in power be claim fraudulently , compare with just £ 1 in £ 25 for housing benefit , £ 1 in £ 300 for PIP and just £ 1 in £ 1 , 000 for pension . the reality be that the Conservatives fail to take the threat of fraud seriously and fail to understand how it be be professionalise and industrialise , as my early story show . they leave we all to pick up the bill . they say that they act , but the truth be they do nothing for year . even when they finally get their act together at the end of their term in office , it be too little , too late . once again , we be have to step in to clear up their mess . they owe everyone in the House and everyone in the country an apology . it be strike that in all their bluster during the debate , we have not hear the only word that they should be uttering : sorry . Fraud explode on the Conservatives ' watch because of their failing , but the pattern of fraud also tell we much about why the power outline in the Bill be so desperately need . the DWP ' s own statistic show that of the £ 7 . 4 billion lose to fraud last year , about £ 1 billion be lose to people who hold too much capital to be eligible , £ 1 . 3 billion be lose to those who have fail to report their self - employment earning , and a furth £ 1 . 3 billion be lose to those who have fail to provide sufficient evidence . a furth £ 250 million be lose to those who be abroad . those fraud could have be catch with well datum and well investigatory power . it would have be possible for bank to spot people with too much capital to claim , or those with considerable earning , yet today , because of the last government ' s failure to update their legislation , the DWP can not compel information digitally . virtually all banking be now do online , and yet while fraud be propagate through digital channel and move at lightning speed , the DWP be still force to rely on analogue tool . in other field , we already integrate information and get institution to work together to prevent fraud . bank regularly scan pattern that indicate fraud ; benefit should be no different . we need digital tool and access to digital datum to fight fraud . as with tax , investigator should have the power they need to recover fund from those who be no long on benefit . that be why the power that the Secretary of State be propose to take be so important as they will allow we to well identify those commit fraud and take more effective recovery action to get taxpayer ' money back . that bring I back to my second story . along with the measure that the Chancellor bring forward in the Budget , these measure will help we protect legitimate claimant by help to pick up overpayment early . last year , 480 , 000 people have deduction average £ 500 take from their universal credit payment because of overpayment . underpayment can be a source of huge anxiety and hardship . prevent they and catch they early will help protect the most vulnerable claimant . that will be possible only because of the well datum and the well process that the Bill will help support . as we hear from the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , some have voice concern about whether the power propose in the Bill will impinge on people ' s right . I be strongly reassure by the powerful raft of safeguard that the Secretary of State have include in the Bill . those safeguard mean that new debt recovery power will be focus not on those on benefit , but rather on those who be neither on benefit or paye , and the DWP will not have access to people ' s bank account , contrary to what some have imply during the debate . those safeguard will include independent oversight and option for appeal . I be pleased to hear that , on top of that , the ICO believe that the safeguard address the concern that it have with the conservative party ' s proposal . this be a fair and balanced package , which modernise our approach and give we the digital tool to fight a digital scourge , and the enforcement power to take on organise crime while protect the vulnerable . this government and this ministerial team be modernise our system to protect public money , help the vulnerable and , critically , get Britain work . I be proud to support the Bill . I want to comment on a number of speech that have be make . as the Scottish National party table a reasoned amendment , which unfortunately do not get select , it will not surprise anyone that we have a number of significant problem with the Bill . part 1 of the Bill relate to recover the covid money and the service and good that the Government receive that be substandard , for which organisation need to pay the Government back . since its scope do not extend to Scotland , I will not add many comment , except to note that I have a long track record of bring up covid fraud , particularly PPE fraud , in this Chamber . I will support the Government ' s work to recoup the money that be fraudulently take in Government contract that do not deliver . I oppose the DWP element of the Bill , which be not what social security should be about . as my friend , the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , say , the social security system should be build on dignity and respect . very few member have say that we should have a social security system that work . member have talk about tighten up eligibility criterion . last week , people talk about the number of scrounger that there be — people not in work who be claim social security benefit — and how desperately we must get they back to work . People should have opportunity , but it be also important that we have a social security system that catch people and support they when they be not able to access those opportunity , because they be struggle with their physical or mental health or have learn difficulty . we need a social security system that work . I have ask the Minister on a couple of occasion about co - production , which an hon . Member also mention . co - production be need when it come to change to disability benefit . if the Government be to reduce the amount of money be pay out for disability and sickness benefit , they must work hand in hand with disabled people . they must not just say , " we be go to reduce it by this amount . " they need to sit round the table with disabled people to have those conversation and to make clear what change they want . in Scotland , we have reform the previous PIP system to create the adult disability payment and child disability payment . I use to get a number of email and people walk through my door who be terrify about their upcoming PIP assessment — have to fill in those form again , and sit and write a long list of the normal thing that their child can not do , on an annual basis . we have change that in Scotland . we do not have regular assessment . if someone have a long - term condition , they do not have to go through that awful situation on an annual basis . the Government need to focus on dignity , respect and co - production . that should be way ahead of conversation around fraud . it be important that the social security system , the procurement system and the tax system do not propagate fraud . as have be mention a number of time by member from across the Chamber , the tax system create a huge amount more fraud and a huge amount more could be recoup from that than from the social security system . I have major concern about how the Government be approach the issue . why be they introduce this Bill before the child poverty strategy ? why be this more of a priority than cancel the two - child cap and take kid out of poverty ? why be the Government talk about nearly £ 10 billion a year owe to the DWP ? just to be clear , that be not what they intend to recoup . accord to the impact assessment , at least 30 % will be write off , so £ 10 billion be a misleading figure . it might be the total amount of fraud and error , but it be not what the Government expect to get back . it do not take into account that they will spend £ 420 million over the next few year just to increase the number of staff or the cost of the eligibility criterion . it be also not a net figure — it be just the headline figure right now . all the work be do on the legislation be to recoup a fairly insignificant amount of money , but it will put people through absolute hell . as have be say , the Bill will treat people as guilty rather than begin from the point of view that they be innocent . potentially , it will put every person apply for benefit through an eligibility check through their bank . it will put they under surveillance in a way that be not compatible with the human right that we should all expect . let we remember that we be talk about people who , in some case , be incredibly vulnerable , and may have their drive licence take away . the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) talk about two of his constituent who find themselves in a difficult situation and who do not have a huge amount of literacy . it be possible that one of those people could have have a drive licence . for disabled people , a car can be an lifeline — the most important thing . for people with mental health problem , opening letter can be really difficult . People might not engage with the DWP through no fault of their own , but because they be not get the mental health support that they need . that £ 10 billion or however much will be recoup will not fix mental health service to ensure that everyone be capable of get up in the morning , have their breakfast , have a shower and open the letter in scary , big writing that have come through the door . it will not ensure that people can engage in that system . it will not teach they to read and write — they may not be capable of that . I share the concern of other Members that , for some individual , the power of recoup and of revoke a drive licence be entirely inappropriate . we have not have enough reassurance on that . my concern about the Information Commissioner be still extant . the Secretary of State say that she have have a letter from the Information Commissioner . I understand that it be probably not her fault , but I be really disappointed that we have not see that letter in advance of today — [ interruption . ] I be be tell that it be be publish . it be on the ICO website . unfortunately , I have not see it because I be not aware of its publication until the Secretary of State stand on her foot . it would have be helpful for member to have be give that information beforehand , so that we could have read the Information Commissioner ' s comment in advance of Second Reading , give a number of we have mention the significant concern of the Information Commissioner in relation to the previous Bill . the Secretary of State say that the Bill be tough and fair . another Member talk about tax and benefit fraud , and the issue with the DWP make overpayment . they suggest that this new system will ensure that overpayment be catch early . I suggest that that be a tad over - optimistic . the DWP make mistake and make overpayment , and now we be give it another place to make error . the DWP can now see into people ' s bank account and say , " you don ' t meet the eligibility criterion , so you win ' t be get the social security payment . " until we have build up much a high level of trust , most people will assume that these power will create more error in the system , rather than reduce they . lastly , on a subject that I mention early , a massive number of disabled people have no trust in the social security system . they be massively concerned about the cut come down the line and concerned in particular that they will bear the brunt of those cut , give the comment from so many politician , use the word " scrounger " and talk about people fraudulently claim benefit . despite the fact that the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) very helpfully lay out the figure on every pound claim fraudulently , which I genuinely think be very helpful , disabled people feel that they be be lump in with the entire group of people claim fraudulently — whether they can or can not work , whether they be be pay universal credit or PIP to assist they with their work , and whether they have a helpful employer or have not be able to find one . People feel they be be demonise by politician simply for claim social security , which they be entitle to . until that trust be rebuild , make the decision to look at their bank account , as in these measure , be the absolute wrong decision . the Government need to do what they can to put dignity and respect at the heart of the social security system and rebuild people ' s trust in it before they introduce these sweeping , disproportionate power . the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion mention the fact that there be so many unclaimed benefit . surely ensure that people have the money they be entitle to , ensure that they have enough to live on , reduce child poverty and ensure that not one child grow up in poverty should be more of a priority for the Government than introduce eligibility criterion and demand that bank provide financial information on social security claimant . I will focus on the power in the Bill that force bank to trawl through our private financial datum , scan for indicator of fraud and error — indicator that be not publicly disclose — and flag those individual to the Government . these power will allow the Department for Work and Pensions to seize money directly from bank account without due process , suspend driving licence and even search property and personal device . they be not the hallmark of a free and democratic society but the tool of an orwellian surveillance state . let I be clear : we all agree that genuine fraudster should be hold to account , especially multimillionaire tax avoider , organise criminal gang and the dodgy company that exploit covid funding . however , the Bill go far beyond that . it will subject million of innocent people — disabled individual , carer , jobseeker , pensioner and parent — to unwarranted financial surveillance , treat they as suspect by default , simply because they receive state support . it be deeply unjust . the Government already have extensive power to investigate suspect fraud ; under exist legislation , they can access bank account where there be reasonable suspicion of criminal activity . however , the Bill remove the need for suspicion altogether . put simply , this be mass surveillance . there be significant risk . we have already see the devastating consequence of automate decision making in the Post Office Horizon scandal , where faulty software lead to hundred of wrongful prosecution . the Bill risk repeat that injustice on an unprecedented scale , and we should not have to wait for an ITV drama to expose it in the future . the DWP have already make mistake in accuse benefit claimant of debt . last July , the Big Issue report that a disabled woman have her disability benefit stop and be accuse of owe the Government £ 28 , 000 , which the DWP later admit be its mistake , while a single mother be accuse of a £ 12 , 000 debt when the DWP actually owe her money . Algorithm - drive financial surveillance will inevitably result in error that will disproportionately affect the most vulnerable in our society : the elderly , the disabled and those already struggle to make end meet . even a 1 % error rate in the AI system use by bank could lead to thousand of benefit recipient be wrongly flag , unfairly investigate and force into lengthy appeal . moreover , the Government ' s own impact assessment suggest that these measure would recover just £ 146 million annually , which be less than 2 % of the estimate annual loss to fraud and error . in contrast , £ 23 billion in benefit and support go unclaimed each year , while £ 3 billion in claim be underpaid . yet the Bill do absolutely nothing to address those injustice or to build a security system base on dignity and respect ; instead , it target those who can least afford to be wrongly flag as fraudster . this legislation represent a rush process with little scrutiny . at 116 page long , the Bill be schedule for Second Reading just seven working day after First Reading . it be an attempt to push through mass surveillance power with minimal debate , bypass the necessary check and balance that should apply to any policy , especially one that affect million of people ' s fundamental right . the power be also legally questionable , with privacy expert warn they could breach article 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998 . the Bill risk create a two - tier justice system — one for the very wealthy , who will never face this kind of intrusion , and another for those on benefit , who will be subject to constant scrutiny , automate check and the threat of their money be seize , perpetuate harmful stereotype about so - call benefit cheat . it will therefore also distract attention away from the million of household that be legitimately support by a social security system that exist to support every single one of we when we need it . civil society group include Amnesty International , Big Brother Watch , Disability Rights UK and Age UK have all condemn the power , warn they will entrench discrimination against the poor and the most vulnerable . we can not allow that to happen . we can not allow the Government to turn our bank into agent of the state , spy on their customer and report back to whitehall ; we can not allow the presumption of innocence to be erode by a culture of suspicion and surveillance ; and we can not stand idly by while the most vulnerable in our community bear the brunt of this overreach . this be not the change people vote for . I therefore urge the Government to remove clause 74 and schedule 3 from the Bill . none of we , I hope , have any empathy with fraudster . I trust that it be the united view of this House that fraud , wherever it occur , should be pursue with rigour . however , that do not mean that a Bill that proclaim itself to have that purpose should be simply nod through . the fine print of this Bill deserve as rigorous an examination as any other . there be a number of area in this Bill that I find concern . I find the equivalence in investigative power and the initiation of those power between investigate fraud and investigate overpayment troubling . there be a huge difference between a person who enrich themselves through fraudulent activity and someone who be innocent , but be the recipient of an overpayment — not because of a mistake they have make , but because of a mistake the Department have make . that be a huge distinction morally , and in every other way . yet it seem to I that the Bill make an equivalence between the power of investigation in that regard , which be something I find discomforting and unfair . I also find some of the detail we find in the Bill surprising . as our law presently stand , a person can be regard as and hold to be a fraudster , in the eye of the law , only if they have be convict of fraud beyond all reasonable doubt . that be the hallowed and long - stand criminal standard that have to be reach before someone be convict as a fraudster . but no long be that the standard . indeed , no long be it for the court to decide whether someone be a fraudster . now , under clause 50 , the Minister can decide whether someone be a fraudster , and not on the criminal standard but on the balance of probability . clause 50 state : " the Minister may impose a penalty on a person if satisfied , on the balance of probability , that the person have carry out , or conspire to carry out , fraud " . the Minister — not our court , but the Minister — will decide , on the balance of probability , whether someone be a fraudster . how could that be right ? how could that be fair ? it get bad , because when we read clause 50 with clause 52 , we discover that the penalty be measure not by what the fraud be in every case , but by what the fraud might have be . so a person can be penalise on the balance of probability ; not by a court , but by a Minister ; and not for have obtain anything fraudulently , but for what they might have obtain have the fraud be perfect . I say to the House that be take we far too far . that need to be re - examine . then we come to clause 91 . under this astounding , disconnected provision , a person can be disqualify from drive if they have fail to pay back £ 1 , 000 , whether they get it by fraud or , as I read it , they be overpay it . they can lose their drive licence not because they have be convict of fraud , but because clause 91 ( 2 ) state that the schedule that will now be amend will make " provision for a liable person to be disqualify " . what be a " liable person " ? we have to go to clause 11 to discover that a " liable person " be somebody on whom the Minister have serve a recovery notice . if the Minister serve a recovery notice on you , that make you a liable person under clause 91 , and under clause 91 , if you still have not pay back £ 1 , 000 , you can lose your driving licence . really ? I do think that with this measure we have hugely run away with ourselves in term of what be proportionate and appropriate . there be much in this Bill in the way of overreach , which the Government need to re - examine . yes , let we go after fraudster . yes , let we recover the money that they should never have have . but let we do it in a way that respect the tradition of our legal system and of the decency in our society , instead of the overreach of some aspect — not all — of the Bill . the Bill do not apply to the area I come from , Northern Ireland , but inevitably , because parity control the welfare payment that be make in Northern Ireland , there will eventually be some parallel , reflective legislation . that will be need , but I want to say a word — I want the Minister to take it on board — about the Northern Ireland Executive . welfare payment in Northern Ireland be demand - lead . they be administer by the Department for Communities in the Northern Ireland Executive , but they be demand - lead . therefore , in that sense , they be not come out of the Northern Ireland block grant . it seem to I that there be a tendency within the Northern Ireland Executive to be less rigorous than they ought to be on fraud , because they be not recover money that have be misuse from the block grant ; they be recover money that have be misuse from the Treasury . that , for some of they , shamefully , do seem to create a disincentive to pursue fraud recovery with the vigour that they should . I say that on the basis of figure release in a number of Northern Ireland Assembly answer . they show that in the last five year there have be only between 200 to 300 fraud pursuit case in Northern Ireland , touch on only £ 4 . 5 million . there be a lot more fraud in the benefit system in Northern Ireland than £ 4 . 5 million . yes , let we pursue fraud with vigour , but let the Secretary of State put some pressure on the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that they be live up to their obligation to also save the Treasury the money that have be lose in fraud . the Bill set out a clear agenda that this Government will be tough on fraud . it will ensure fairness for benefit claimant and offer confidence to the taxpayer . when it come to taxpayer ' money , fraud and waste can not and must not be tolerate . I be pleased that the Government be take that approach , and I be proud to speak in favour of the Bill . I be appalled , frankly , to learn that a total of £ 35 billion of taxpayer ' money have be lose to fraud and error since the pandemic . I think of my constituent in Doncaster Central , of how desperately our hospital need refurbishing , of how many child live below the poverty line , and of how many of my constituent be stick on NHS waiting list . I be outraged at just how much money , which could have help to solve those problem , be instead drain by fraudster , sometimes on a large and organised scale , and by the careless error of the previous Government . with these measure , this Government will protect claimant by prevent error early , ensure that our benefit system work for those who claim benefit they so desperately need , and give taxpayer the right to see their hard - earn money spend well . I welcome the fact that the Government be bring the Department ' s search and seizure power in line with those of HMRC and the Child Maintenance Service , and I be pleased to see the Department ' s commitment to ensure strong safeguard on those power , include the appointment of an independent body to conduct independent inspection of the Department ' s investigation . we must ensure that the tough measure we introduce to recoup taxpayer ' money be meet with equally tough scrutiny and safeguard . I hope that will remain a priority as the Bill pass through the stage of this House . I have no doubt that some Opposition Members will claim that they introduce measure to crack down on benefit fraud . indeed , they do — eventually . at the very tail end of the last Parliament , they tag measure on to the end of another Bill , which never pass . it have fall to we , as it have in many other area , to take the necessary action . whether it be benefit fraud or fraudulent covid contract , these be not victimless crime . it be public service and our constituent who lose out . we need to get on with this job . we can not afford to lose more public money , which our constituent pay for with their taxis and should feel the benefit of . tough measure , tough sanction and tough safeguard be the key to ensure that our welfare system be fair for its genuine claimant and robust enough to ensure that taxpayer money go where it be suppose to go : to the people and the service that need it most . let I , at the outset , make it clear for the record that I think it be important that the Government pursue fraud . I ask the Secretary of State about that this afternoon during DWP question . there be a story in the newspaper today , and it may even have be in yesterday ' s Sunday paper , about a gentleman who defraud the system of about £ 800 , 000 and skip off to , I think , Romania . there be no treaty whereby we could pursue he , but obviously the Government wish to ensure that all those money be recoverable . the point I be make be that there be clearly those who set out to defraud the system , and it be important for the Government to respond positively . I think they be do that , but I have some concern . when we speak to constituent on the doorstep , none of they have an issue with people who need help from the state — who be ill , or out of work for other genuine reason — but there be a definite feeling that people should not claim and work on the side , and I agree that we need to clamp down on those who be " do the double " . that terminology may not be use very often , but its meaning be clear . the statistic suggest that there may well be an issue , although the scale refer to in Government documentation vary greatly . the National Audit Office put the amount across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in 2023 - 24 in the range between £ 5 billion and £ 30 billion . it be clear that we need to do something effective . those who work hard and be barely make end meet be cry out for fairness . however , I fear that we may open up power that can not be remove and that would turn we into a nanny state . in my early intervention on the Secretary of State , I express concern about those who make genuine and honest mistake . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) refer to that , in his polished and qualified way . People fill in form and think they be do it correctly , but perhaps they make a mistake and tick the wrong box . it happen all the time . I ask my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) whether he have deal with many such case over the year . I have deal with about 30 , perhaps 40 , every one of they involve a genuine mistake when someone unfortunately tick the wrong box and have to repay the money . I be concerned about those who be disabled , those who be anxious , those who be depressed , those who have emotional or mental issue . I do not want they to become the " low - hang fruit " for Ministers and the Department to pursue , rather than pursue those who be guilty of claim benefit only just this side of £ 1 million , like the person I mention . a girl in my office , a member of my staff , work full time on benefit , five day a week . her diary be full from 9 am until 5 pm every day of the week . disabled people come to my office , and they be the people whose case be genuine . they be the people who have apply for benefit and be anxious and worried about the whole thing . I always say to they , and the girl in the office say it as well , " if you be go to get the benefit — and it be right that you do — put the fact on your application form , and the Department will make a decision . " those be the people I fear for . they be the people I worry for . they be the people about whom I myself feel anxious on their behalf , worry about what could happen to they . when people apply for benefit genuinely , the DWP do sometimes make mistake . every one of the 30 - odd people I mention early with whom I have be involve over the year be successful because there have be a genuine mistake . I have to say , " guy , I respect this greatly , because I understand the principle of what you be try to do , so you should never be in doubt about where I be come from " — I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I should have refer to " hon . member " rather than " guy . " the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim mention people have their driving licence remove if they have not repay £ 1 , 000 when it be money that , perhaps , they should not be in receipt of . however , if their drive licence be take away when they have simply make a mistake , and they be penalise and deem to be guilty , they can not go to their job because they have no car , and can not do the work that would enable to pay the money back , that be overkill . I also want to say something about bank account . everything I do in this House come from Strangford , and it will not surprise anyone that the example I will give be Strangford - base . I say that to help all the other Members here . I be contact by a constituent whose brother have be diagnose with paranoid psychosis and be live in a tent when she realise that he have be turn out of his apartment and his benefit have fall by the wayside . she take control , get he on benefit and find he a private rent apartment . because he do not trust bank , which be part of his health issue , all that be do through her account . without she , he would be unable to pay rent or do anything , as he do not trust Government and she handle it all . will her bank account be open to Government scrutiny ? will she hand over care to the social worker who cease contact because her brother would not engage , and sign he off as too difficult to work with ? that be all part of the paranoid psychosis — the health problem , the disability , the emotional and mental issue that such people face . I think of these people . I will always speak up for the wee man and the wee woman who be penalise through a system that try hard to achieve the goal that it set itself , but unfortunately — again — fall by the wayside . who will take care of the situation if this man ' s sister object to Government rifle through her account when she work hard and pay more than her share in tax ? one hon . Gentleman — I can not remember who it be — say that HMRC should be pursue other money with the same zeal that they be show in this case . what security will my constituent have to ensure that her privacy be not sacrifice because she be help her brother ? more importantly , how many other like she — friend and family of those suffer from mental ill health — will pull back because of that ? I ask the Minister for an assurance about such case , and I think it important for each and every one of we who have a conscience — I be not say that no one else have a conscience ; perhaps I should say , those of we who have concern on behalf of our constituent — to bear they in mind . a Government overreach for those who be care for the mentally ill , and who already lead a life of stress owe to their caring duty , without recompense from the government because they already work — could lead to more pressure from the state to fill the breach . I must respectfully say that I do not see how we have the capacity for this . I never want to see a scenario in which genuinely disabled people be so concerned about the scope of Government regulation in respect of their money that they do not claim what they be entitle to . that would be terrible . the Government set a system — whether it be the personal independence payment , universal credit , disabled living allowance , pension credit or attendance allowance — and all those benefit be there for a purpose . when people come to I , I always say , " the Government have set this aside for you . it be yours if you qualify and the criterion be there . " I think of people who save for a holiday , or perhaps their partner work and take they on a holiday tailor to their need ; perhaps they will go to the hotel in Portrush , not far away , or perhaps they will take a plane to Jersey , with a wheelchair and an assistant to get they on and off the plane . I do not want such people penalise when their disability be such that they can only do that if there be someone with they . they may be afraid to go on that holiday because they fear be label a benefit cheat , while those who be do the double , as it use to be know , should be unable to continue that life at the expense of the taxpayer . my question to the Minister be this : how do the Government intend to find the balance ? it be critical for we to get that balance right . I understand the urge to do this , and it be right to do it , but I do not want those who be justify in receive a benefit to be penalise . I note that the Government believe they could reclaim some £ 54 million in 10 year . if that figure be right , this be worth pursue , but how much will it cost to run over that period ? how much will it cost the Government to chase all these money ? how do we send a message to those who be concerned about their loss of freedom to a Government who can look into family bank account that this be a measure worth take ? my final word to the Government be these : " do . the job that you have set yourself , but make sure you do not chase the wee man and the wee woman " — the people whom I represent , the people whom the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) represent , the people whom we all represent on both side of the House . " those be the people I be speak up for tonight , and I want to make sure that they be protect . I do not want to repeat what have be say by other , but I will share my perspective on the Bill . it be in two part , and there be almost unanimity about the first part , which deal with how we tackle fraud carry out through contract and so on . I thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for point out some of the element of real concern in that part of the Bill , which , to be frank , I miss . the Bill have be publish for only a week , and it have be difficult to go through it . I have be somewhat distract by the Government try to concrete over a quarter of my constituency with a third runway at Heathrow , and element of the Bill need further examination . to be frank , I think it will face legal challenge in some form . I can not welcome the first half of the Bill enough , which deal with tackle overall fraud . I be the first MP to raise with the then Chancellor the corruption that be take place with covid bounce back loan . I raise it a number of time in the House , and I write to he twice . I receive a standard letter that be almost identical to the response I get from the bank , which say they be go through their usual investigatory process , and then we eventually discover that fraudulent claim for bounce back loan amount to at least £ 5 billion . I welcome the first half of the Bill , because we need to be ruthless on the corruption and fraud that take place . however , the second part of the Bill , particularly clause 74 and schedule 3 , be where we be strain , to be frank . some hon . member have mention the context already . there be real fear out there among people who claim welfare benefit , particularly disabled people . it be a result of their be target , and of careless language in this place and elsewhere . that be then exaggerate even far by the medium , and benefit claimant become target . I echo what the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , because I have the same problem in my constituency . sometimes it be about tell people to claim what they be entitle to , because they be terrified of the stigma around claim benefit at the moment , particularly old people . the atmosphere that we now have be a climate of fear , and I be worried that this debate will add to that climate of fear . the Secretary of State say that any proposal have to be proportionate , safe and fair , but there be real concern about the proportionality of this Bill . as other member have say , it be a mass surveillance exercise . the road to hell be pave with good intention , and I fear that once we start down the path of surveillance in this way , other will come back with proposal for where we can go far . as member have say time and again , there be an issue with safety . how many lesson do we have to learn about the way that computer system and the use of algorithm have destroy people ' s life ? my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) say that the bank be gear up , but they have express concern that the Bill be almost an exercise beyond their ability . as a result , there will be error , which will reinforce the climate of fear around benefit . I apologise for omit this issue from my speech . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the Government have decide to penalise those who have be charge with alleged fraud ? do he feel that there should be a system in place so that they can appeal ? that be why the code of practice be go to be interesting . the code of practice need to be publish as rapidly as possible to see what mechanism will be available for we to protect our constituent . I have one area of experience with regard to the flagging up of sum of money that raise concern : in the debate that we have on tax avoidance , we talk about suspicious activity report . there be a record of real fault and a high number of error in that process . as a result , people have be not just penalise , but penalise unfairly and expose unfairly . it be not that I be in any way a defender of tax avoidance or anything like that , but if we be to introduce a system , we need to make sure that it be secure and effective , and do not penalise people unfairly . the Bill be suppose to be proportionate , safe and fair . the reason why people will feel that it be unfair be that it specifically target people who be often in desperate need . if there be a group of people whose account we would want to monitor because there have be a history of fraud , and who have have to pay money back — some have go to prison — it would be mps . I be here during the expense scandal . follow that experience , be we really not monitor our account for undue payment and so on ? why be it always the poor who we target in this way ? as I say , I be really worried about the climate of fear , particularly among people with disability , which the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) mention . we know about 600 suicide that be relate to DWP activity . we circulate John Pring ' s book " the Department " , which look at the DWP ' s role in those death , to all mp , and it be starkly obvious that it have make a significant contribution , if not cause they . I remember a case in Scotland in which a poet in Leith commit suicide but do not leave a suicide note ; he just leave a letter from the DWP beside he . my view be that whatever step we take in exercise the power in the Bill , we have to be extremely careful . one of the thing I want to raise — if I can crowbar it into this legislation through an amendment , I will — be that a number of we , on the basis of the work of Mo Stewart , who do research on poverty and welfare benefit , have say that we must give people assurance that they will be protect and that we will do everything we can to cause no harm , and certainly not cause any further suicide , but we must also learn the lesson of what have happen in the past . one of Mo Stewart ' s proposal be for an independent advisory panel for DWP - relate death . we have exactly that system in place for death in custody . we have an advisory system at the moment for the DWP but , to be frank , it be not work . the minute of the panel ' s meeting be cursory , and it do not do detailed report in the same way as the death in custody panel . if we be to reassure people out there that we really be look after their interest , that be one small step that we could include in this legislation . I be not sure that we will be able to crowbar it into the title of the Bill , but I will do my good and would welcome other member ' creative drafting to help I . such a measure would send out the right message . the Secretary of State have try to do that tonight with her assurance about the process , but I be not sure whether that will be enough , give the climate of fear that we now have . what be the next step ? I hope that there will be sufficient time in Committee for we all to get our head around the detail of the Bill . I hope that there will be more consultation ; it would be well to delay Report to enable that . I also wish to raise the same issue as the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) : we be give assurance that the proposal would be implement by co - production rather than announce from above . it would be an example of good governance if there be a process of proper consultation . after the Ellen Clifford case , in which the High Court rule against the previous Government on their consultation , the spirit of the Government ' s response be that there would then be proper consultation , hopefully on the principle of " nothing about we without we " . consultation on the detail of the Bill throughout its passage would be the good example that this Government could give of that process work productively so that we get it right and we do not endanger any more people , as unfortunately have happen in the past . I be sure that I speak for all hon . member when I say that put a stop to fraud of any kind be welcome , especially at a time when public money be scarce . however , many of my Horsham constituent have contact I to say that the power outline in the Bill be very far - reach and , if abuse , could have hugely detrimental effect on benefit claimant through no fault of their own . as my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) say , the carer ' s allowance repayment scandal show exactly what can go wrong when the state have high - level power over debt recovery . due to departmental error , not the claimant ' error , there be more than 250 , 000 case of overpayment to carer in the last five year of the Conservative Government . that be an enormous number . what would have happen to those carer , who be pay very little for the huge service to society that they provide , if the power in the Bill have be in place during those five year ? they would probably have face force withdrawal from their bank account , the possible removal of their drive licence or even force entry to their home by the DWP . the Bill will give increase power to access private bank account . this require careful consideration from a civil liberty perspective . however , the DWP already have the power to compel third party to share datum where criminal activity be suspect . the new power appear to reduce the need for prior evidence and simply grant access at will . give that access to banking information be estimate to recover just 1 . 4 % of the Government ' s annual loss to fraud and error , do these power of force withdrawal represent a proportionate action ? before introduce new power , it might make more sense for the Government to increase the efficacy of exist requirement on third party to report suspicious activity , and for HMRC to share banking datum on an annual basis . the Government have assert that the Bill will save the public purse £ 1 . 5 billion , but in the absence of an impact statement , how do we know ? if the DWP be to have the power to take people ' s money , suspend drive licence and enter home , we should at least be very confident that it be worth it . in particular , we need to be sure that the saving predict do not come from the blameless victim of departmental error , as happen with the carer ' s allowance overpayment scandal . it be of huge importance that fraud be reduce , but until we be sure that we have learn the lesson of the past , we run the risk of damage people ' s life for insufficient benefit . we be at risk of make the same mistake again , but with few check and balance . the sentiment of the Bill be welcome , but there be risk attach . I be concerned that it build a narrative that assume that the claimant be the guilty party , when it could be the Department that be at fault . I therefore call on the Government to apply all possible care before launch new regulation that , at present , would amount to a matter of trial and error . I recognise that fraud exist across the public sector and that it be wholly right for any Government to track down the fraudster , the criminal gang and those who cheat the system at the bottom as well as the top — we have hear about the vip fast lane — but I hold deep reservation about the unintended consequence of the Bill in its present form . we have hear some very constructive contribution this evening from member across the House . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who be always accessible and have be willing to listen to my concern and those of my many constituent who have get in touch to express their view . although she have allay some of my fear , I do let she know that I would raise my concern in the Chamber today . first , the Bill need to make a great distinction between fraud and error . we can not accept a situation in which our constituent be be accuse of fraud on the back of genuine personal error . I know at first hand from my experience as a constituency MP that the Department be more than capable of make glare error of its own , and people suffer greatly as a result . the welfare system be not an easy one to navigate ; people should be support when problem arise , rather than there be a natural presumption towards guilt . many organisation that have be in touch with hon . member share this fear , so it be essential that the Government address the point head on . other aspect of the Bill sit very uneasy with I . the Government already have the power , under exist legislation , to investigate those who be suspect of fraud . that raise the question why the Bill be need . it feel like a hammer to crack a nut . after the second world war , the Attlee Government set about establish a welfare state as a safety net for those who be genuinely in need . the Attlee Government take responsibility for look after the wellbeing of all their citizen from the cradle to the grave . worryingly , there now seem to be a determination to transform the british welfare state into a system of mass surveillance . I will be grateful if the Minister respond to the follow point . first , although I acknowledge that the Secretary of State speak about this at the Dispatch Box , what provision be be make in respect of proper oversight of these propose new power ? how would any financial institution navigate datum protection conflict between the Government and its customer ? how would data security risk be mitigate ? during an iteration of the Bill introduce by the last government , the Equality and Human Rights Commission call for it to be scrap . a legal opinion from Dan Squires KC and Aidan Wills find that the power in the previous iteration be likely to breach UK article 8 privacy right protect in the Human Rights Act . can the Minister tell we what legal advice the Government have receive on the proposal in the Bill ? I have serious concern that assertion and decision on individual case , if automate , could lead to Horizon - style injustice if the necessary step be not take to put the right safeguard in place , alongside measure to guarantee some level of transparency and accountability when mistake arise . we be look at a hugely significant change to our welfare system , at a time when the Department be responsible for record underpayment . surely that should be a Government priority , rather than further upheaval of a system that threaten to far stigmatise those who legitimately rely on the welfare state . there be low level of fraud in the benefit system . the late Government figure put it at 2 . 8 % of total benefit expenditure , which translate to overpayment due to fraud record at 3 . 7 % in the financial year 2023 - 24 . although it be right and proper to look at way to reduce that figure , politician in this place have a responsibility to make it clear at every opportunity that any such move , especially one as far - reach as this , be intend to target a small minority of criminal . the constituent I support often tell I that the service they interact with , and by extension the Department , tend to view they with suspicion and lack of empathy . the Bill must not be use to entrench such attitude . for the british public , whether they be in work or out of work , life be get hard . rampant inequality have break our economic model , while the 1 % continue to squeeze the rest . I very much hope that the Bill will not end up punish the wrong people , make those inequality even bad . I look forward to Government Front Benchers engage with those who express legitimate concern today and during the Bill ' s parliamentary journey . I will not oppose its Second reading , but I will work constructively with colleague across the House to table amendment in Committee that alleviate my concern and those of right hon . and hon . member . in bassetlaw , most people work hard all their life , pay their due and want to live comfortably . they keep themselves to themselves , whether in Worksop , Harworth , Retford or the village , but what unite they in anger be the know benefit fraudster who live down the street . I have lose count of the number of time I have hear the rage , the sense of injustice and grievance that benefit fraud be happen on their doorstep , and that nothing seem to be do about it . with billion of pound of public money lose last year , we welcome this Bill in Bassetlaw . at long last , it be the start of real action against the fraudster and those milk the system , whether they be workshy or feed the coffer of organise crime . this legislation will give the DWP new anti - fraud power , for the first time since the Tony Blair year , bring it into the digital age . I welcome the new search and seizure power , bring the DWP into line with HMRC ' s investigative power — seize luxury good , bag of cash and mobile phone to use as evidence of fraud , and take active control of investigation into the criminal gang that be defraud the taxpayer . if that mean raid , let it crack on . I welcome the new , strong power to pursue those who receive money that they be not entitle to . where they refuse outright to repay , it be right that their drive licence should be remove . bank and building society flagging fraud , such as long - term trip abroad or wage go into an account while benefit be also be claim , be also welcome . although the Government will at last be tough on fraud , the new power will include strong safeguard to ensure that they be use appropriately , protect the vulnerable and the sick . the message from today be that if you be live off the wage of fraud , we be come to get you . if you have nothing to hide , you have nothing to fear . that be why I back the Bill ' s additional measure to pursue those who rip we off during covid , include the previous Government ' s greedy friend who grab the PPE contract and the fake company owner who take the business loan . we will not allow time limitation to act as a barrier . we want our money back and the thief jail , and we want anyone who line the pocket of their mate to feel the long arm of the law . I can not abide the thought of my constituent ' hard - earn money fund the luxury lifestyle of the fraudster . Labour be the party of work people , and this Bill put our value into action . this Bill be all about fraud . it be the start , not the end , of stamp out corruption , insider dealing and the defrauding of those who strive and save by work hard . this be the start of reset break Britain . I call Luke Charters . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . last , but I hope not least . before enter this place , I spend a lot of my career tackling fraud . one key trend in fraud be its increase sophistication . rather than the art of a local chancer , fraud be increasingly conduct by organise crime group use elaborate mechanism , deeply advanced technology and rapidly shift modus operandi . that include benefit fraud gang . I be sorry to say this , but fraud in the benefit system have reach an industrial scale . frankly , it be time the Government get a grip , which be why I welcome their swift action in introduce this Bill . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State write an excellent op - ed today highlight this exact point . this be the money of many hard - work Brits , and it have be steal from right under their nose . the Tories preside over a system that allow criminal to line their pocket at taxpayer ' expense . my hon . friend be make a passionate speech , and he talk about benefit fraud on an industrial scale . do he really believe that just over 2 . 5 % be an industrial scale ? as I will come to , it be about the advanced technique that these fraud gang be use . it be industrial - level criminal activity . last year , £ 7 billion be cheat out of taxpayer ' pocket , and we have be leave to clean it up . if we have that cash , we could have fund extra police officer or vital repair to some of our hospital . frankly , it would also have make it easy to fill the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the Conservative party , wherever its member be . I now turn to a few concrete example of why this Bill matter . first , on the economic , the Bill be expect to save £ 1 . 5 billion over the next few year . these be not insignificant sum of money . it be important to stress that the public purse be not an endless pot , and the contribution of million of work people across the country , include many of my constituent in York Outer , help to fund it . they want to see taxpayer ' money be spend wisely . steal benefit be not just fraud ; it be a slap in the face to the hard - work taxpayer who fund our public service . this Bill change that . the Bill be not just about keep more taxpayer ' cash in the Treasury . as Brits , we embody the value of kindness , decency and fairness . although we be rightly outraged about criminal circumvent our system , we all want a reliable welfare state for the people who truly need it . every £ 1 steal by benefit fraud gang be £ 1 less for a low - income single parent look for a job on universal credit , £ 1 less for a disabled person on the high rate of PIP , and £ 1 less for someone on carer ' s allowance . in many case , these payment be a lifeline for people get back to work . at the moment , this cash be go to criminal rather than carer . I now turn to a few recent case of organise benefit fraud to elucidate the scale of the challenge we face . all have be settle and be now in the public domain follow prosecution . in May 2024 , we see the large benefit fraud case in history . the operation see five bulgarian national forge thousand of document to make thousand of fraudulent universal credit claim to the value of £ 50 million . in October 2023 , seven people be sentence for falsely claim employment support allowance . they use advanced technique to hijack identity , result in the crime group steal hundred of thousand of pound . an investigation by City of London police in 2020 see enforcement against a benefit fraud ring to the tune of hundred of thousand of pound . I take a brief moment to praise the excellent work of our law enforcement agency , include City of London police , who I have meet , for their collaboration . that be exactly how the last fraud ring be close . this example show the benefit of public - private partnership , which this Bill seek to catalyse , in tackle benefit fraud , what do these case have in common ? the benefit fraud be actually a predicate to other illicit activity . they demonstrate the need to upgrade our response , and this Bill represent additional line of defence in our rise to the challenge we need to fix . some of the measure in this Bill will do exactly that : support covid - era fraud investigation ; strengthen the psfa by establish it as a separate entity ; give the psfa power to compel evidence and enter premise with a warrant ; extend the time limit to bring action against historical fraud to 12 year ; and grant extra power for recover money . I recently visit the national economic crime centre at the National Crime Agency , and I know the scale of the challenge we face when it come to tackle fraudster . I have no doubt that , with this Bill , the Government will smash the benefit fraud gang , but we must also acknowledge that this Bill represent a significant shift for the financial industry . it be a step into a new dawn for those in the bank who work on tackle economic crime , as they will be spend more time tackle benefit fraud . it be right that the Government be pursue a growth - first strategy , which have to be carefully balance with the economic crime plan . the Financial Conduct Authority ' s new consumer duty be an important stride forward for the industry , and I be proud to play a small role in that , but , as scrutiny of the Bill continue , I warmly invite Ministers to engage with the FCA and report back to the House on how the new power will carefully balance consumer vulnerability with the need to drive down benefit fraud . finally , there be an important scenario that must be consider more carefully as the Bill progress in this place . a victim of domestic abuse — let we call her " Jane " — be quietly save money to escape , but then an account information notice be issue . base on three month of bank statement , a debt recovery notice follow . Jane have 28 day to appeal , but no access to legal advice . worse still , her abuser intercept the letter and her saving , which be her lifeline to escape , be seize . her escape plan be expose , put she at risk . we must ensure that financial process do not accidentally or invertedly work against victim of domestic abuse in those scenario , as I be sure minister be aware . to close , the Prime Minister say in a speech at a recent Labour party conference : " if we want to maintain support for the welfare state , then we will legislate to stop benefit fraud " . when it come to tackle organise crime group , not only be he right , but the Bill be proof he be deliver on his promise . the Bill be about smash the benefit fraud gang , treat taxpayer ' money fairly and ensure we have a safety net leave for the genuinely vulnerable people who need it . I refer time and again to a point I make in my maiden speech that ring as true today as it ever have do . I say : " I want to ensure that there be no safe harbour for fraudster , no compromise in our pursuit of their scheme and no escape from justice . " — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 124 . ] I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to wind up this important debate on behalf of the official Opposition . it have be a really interesting debate , with some strong view express by member from all party , and the disagreement do not necessarily come from where we might have be expect . in fact , it seem the official Opposition and the Government be more in agreement than anybody else . the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) , for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) all speak . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) make some very valid point . at the end of the debate , the hon . member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) make an interesting point about the connection between the Bill and violence against woman and girl , which will be important to consider in Committee . passionate view be raise by the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) and for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , and the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . it have be an interesting debate all round . before I start , I want to reflect on some of the comment make about covid . as have be make clear , the Bill be in two part : one part be about the Cabinet Office and the increase power , and the other be about the benefit fraud challenge face the DWP . the previous government , particularly when my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) be Chancellor , save a huge number of business through the bounce back loan and job through the furlough scheme , and provide initiative like the kickstart programme . without those , even more people would have need to claim from the DWP . the National Audit Office have say that there be no evidence of ministerial involvement in improper procurement or contract decision , so it be important to make that point for the record . as we have hear , the measure in the Bill be a continuation of much that the previous Conservative Government be implement before the election be call , but it also contain some concern extension to the power of the new Government . a pattern be emerge : the Government pick up our previous work , quietly remove some of the more sensible plan , and add some ill think out plan of their own . my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) highlight our record in government of tackle fraud in the welfare system and fight public sector fraud . member on the Government Benches seem to have forget that record but , in good faith , I will assume that be error rather than fraud on their part . it have be a few hour since my hon . friend share that record , so allow I to recap . before the pandemic , we work hard to secure near record low level of fraud and error across the DWP welfare and tax credit system . we know the stress and anxiety experience by those who have be overpay , we be hunt down those who be deliberately misappropriate the system , and our action be make a difference . however , give the amount of Government support provide during the pandemic , it be not surprising that individual and group seek to exploit the emergency situation we all face . in response to that , we publish our " fight fraud in the welfare system " paper in May 2022 . that crackdown lead to a 10 % reduction in fraud and error , and £ 1 billion save through dedicated counter - fraud activity . in addition , an estimate further £ 1 . 35 billion be save between 2023 and 2024 . our ambition do not end there . last May , we publish a further paper , " fight fraud in the welfare system : go far " , which set out plan to save an additional £ 9 billion by 2027 - 28 by crack down on benefit cheat . during the debate , we hear about the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill , which be the precursor to part 2 of the Bill before we . furthermore , our propose fraud Bill would have align the Department for Work and Pensions with HMRC , enable we to treat benefit fraud in the same way as tax fraud , give investigator new power to make seizure and arrest . all that be before we look at our record of tackle public sector fraud , as additionally include in this new Bill . our taxpayer protection taskforce secure about £ 1 . 2 billion , which be either block from be pay out or recover through our compliance work . we set up the Public Sector Fraud Authority , whose power be be extend in the Bill , to work across Government to reduce fraud against the public sector . its first - year target be £ 180 million , which be smash with saving of £ 311 million . our risk , threat and prevention service be the first in - house fraud squad of its kind in the world when set up in 2023 . work across Government , it set out to ensure the public purse be protect at key point , as new spending programme or policy be announce . why be that important ? we know that between 2023 and 2024 alone , the Public Accounts Committee have find that nearly £ 1 in every £ 15 be either error or fraud . that be an eye - watering amount of taxpayer money , as the vast majority of Members would agree . the ambition of the Bill for a more powerful Public Sector Fraud Authority could lead to about £ 54 billion be recover from public sector fraud in 10 year , which be a welcome figure . however , the Government could be do more . we have hear how the taxpayer simply can not afford the Government to stop here — more action be essential . the new Government ' s inaction to date in reform health and sickness benefit be estimate to have cost the taxpayer approximately £ 1 . 8 billion since July 2024 , which be around £ 266 million every month . instead , the new Government have go after pensioner , employer and farmer , action they be ready and wait to take without delay . yet here we be , seven month into a new Parliament , with not a peep on how they will reform the benefit system , other than repeat that they will come up with a plan soon . indeed , they have 14 year to come up with that plan . every day labour duck the tough question , the benefit bill continue to grow . however , take a step back , it be important to remember why we have a benefit or welfare system in the first place . I be sure that across the House we be agree that it be morally right for the state to provide for the most vulnerable — those who , through no fault of their own , need financial support to provide for themselves or their family . in debate the Bill , it be easy to forget that , in the majority of case , beneficiary of additional support from the state claim it simply to get on with their life , and they be not a cause for concern . however , as the title of the Bill suggest , there be a need to recover public money that have be claim either in error or because of fraud — as a result of an innocent mistake or with deliberate intent . this be , after all , as we have hear multiple time , taxpayer ' money that have end up in the wrong bank account . that need rectifying , which be why , as we have already make clear , we support the Bill in principle . my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent set out a number of question , which I hope the Minister will address shortly in his sum up . unsurprisingly , we remain concerned about the final detail of the legislation and the huge absence of a plan to tackle the rapidly rise benefit bill . however , we look forward to debate the detail of the Bill far in Committee shortly , and work cross - party to ensure that further progress be make . first and foremost , we must see money from the public purse fairly and squarely in the hand of those it be intend for , and not in the hand of the fraudster work to line their own pocket . I hope that the House will bear with I ; I have bin my original closing speech , give the number of contribution that we have hear , and some of the legitimate question and concern that colleague have set out . I thank those colleague who rightly highlight the scale of the challenge , and why the Government must act to tackle fraud against the public sector . my hon . friend the Members for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) , for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) and for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) all set out the scale of the challenge , and the view of their constituent on this issue , in very robust term . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for York Outer about the risk of unintended consequence , particularly on the issue of violence against woman and girl . we be look at that closely and will continue to do so . a number of member refer to the alleged lack of an impact assessment , or the publication of one . an impact assessment have be publish , alongside the view of the Regulatory Policy Committee , and be available for colleague to view . let I turn to specific concern about the Bill , start with those of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) . I welcome the tone of the Conservatives , and their broad support for a number of the principle in the Bill . she be correct that it be incumbent on the state to get its money back . it be part of the unwritten contract that she refer to . I feel there be a slightly tenuous justification for the escalation in benefit fraud that we have see in recent year : the war in Ukraine . I know that we be happy to blame Putin for many thing , but that be a new one on I . she rightly point to an escalation in benefit fraud and error as a result of covid , but that do not explain why the level of fraud and error in the Department for Work and Pensions be high in 2023 - 24 than in any of the year from 2021 - 22 onwards — £ 9 . 7 billion last year , a record level . the issue be get bad , not well , and that happen on the Conservatives ' watch . the shadow Secretary of State suggest that the content of the Conservatives ’ fraud plan would have solve all these problem , and that we be copy much of what be in it . it be fair to say that the conservative party legislate only on the third - party datum measure in that plan . the Conservatives never mention debt recovery power , and make no effort to get a grip on public sector fraud with the new power that we be introduce by put the psfa on a statutory footing . overall , their appalling record hardly come as a surprise . the shadow Secretary of State go on to say that she be concern about the amount of information be share by bank . just to be clear , we will not be share any information with bank . the information that will come back to we will have very strict criterion , and we be take a specific power to fine bank for overshare information that be out of scope . she ask what testing have be do on this ; two trial have be undertake , so we know that the proposal will work , as it pertain to the eligibility verification measure . the shadow Secretary of State go on , with some audacity , in my view , to challenge whether the debt recovery power go far enough — power that the conservative party refuse to take , and never put forward when they be in government . she mention the number of AI scheme that have be set aside . test and learn be perfectly normal in the AI space . I remind she that some of the scheme that have not be take forward be now move through under different name . she mention the psfa , and raise concern about the right to compel information . the power have independent oversight to ensure that their use be proportionate , so although no organisation be exempt , all action be consider within a robust legal framework . we then hear from the Conservatives , astonishingly , that there be nothing in the Bill to get a grip on the benefit bill . what cheek , when the benefit bill spiral by some £ 20 billion on their watch ! as for their so - call plan , I remind the shadow Secretary of State that they make a hash of it and that we lose a judicial review on their fail plan just a few week ago , so we will take our time to bring forward the proposal and will consult on they , and we will get this right . I be grateful for the support of the Conservatives , but I hope that it will manifest itself in the voting Lobby later because , with the exception of the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , who I believe be the parliamentary private Secretary , we have not have a full speech from a single conservative Member — just one intervention . if that do not show the lack of seriousness with which they take this issue , the appalling record and position we have inherit should do just that . I want to spend a little time on the comment of the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , who be a champion for vulnerable people . I particularly want to speak to the measure we be take to assure ourselves of the appropriate support for vulnerable people , both within the scope of the Bill and more generally , because that be important and relate to a number of comment from member . it be always the Department ' s priority to set repayment plan that be affordable and sustainable ; that we make use of the debt respite service , Breathing Space , which allow for a temporary protection from creditor ; and that we provide additional support to help customer manage their money . we work with the Money and Pensions Service under its brand name " Moneyhelper " , which offer free , independent and impartial money and debt advice . indebted customer be routinely offer a referral , with the majority who meet the criterion take up that offer . in addition , a DWP debt management vulnerability framework have recently be introduce to provide guidance for adviser on how to support customer at risk of become vulnerable , include signpost to specialist support . that be embed across debt management , and part of that involve adviser undertake annual refresher training on identify and support customer experience vulnerability . within the scope of the Bill , it be important to recognise that the power of debt recovery will not be use on benefit claimant . it extend only to those who receive their income through mean other than benefit or through payrolle employment . there be also important safeguard in the Bill that govern the process of debt recovery and the new enforcement power . there will be repeat effort at contact before any enforcement action be take , and there will be affordability check before any deduction be take from bank account . there will be limit on the size of those deduction , a right to require deduction order and a right to appeal deduction order beyond that . also , the DWP can vary or suspend the deduction order follow a change in circumstance . I appreciate that the Government have make change around affordability , but they still do not assess either benefit clawback or the deduction on the basis of whether they be actually affordable for the people have to pay they back . be the Government planning to put that in place at some point in future ? the hon . Lady will forgive I if I have not understand she correctly , but there be specific provision in the Bill on the debt recovery power to limit the amount that can be claw back to 40 % of anybody ' s capital , but if I have misunderstood that , I be happy to have a conversation with her afterwards . I hope that I have set out some of the step we be take in the Bill and more broadly to ensure support for vulnerable people . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , be right to highlight the scale of covid fraud and the lack of safeguard in place to protect the public purse . he highlight the carer ' s allowance review , which will report this summer , not next , but we be already learn the lesson of that . much like the proposal in the Bill , datum be key , so we have secure funding to extend the verify earning and pension service system of alert from HMRC to 100 % of claim . we will ensure in this Bill that the eligibility verification measure information be process quickly to reduce large overpayment , and to avoid a repeat of what happen on the last government ' s watch with carer ' s allowance . the hon . member for Torbay raise the use of AI , as do my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth . there will always be a human decision maker on each of these power , so where decision be make , a human — not AI — will make that call . for EVM , a flag would be pass to a human to establish benefit eligibility . for debt recovery , it would be pass to a human to assess vulnerability and the ability to pay . for information gathering , it would be pass to a human for investigation where there be a suspicion of fraud . for search and seizure , a warrant would be grant by a judge . at all time , a human be make those decision , as be right and proper , give the power that we be talk about . accord to the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire , there be no doubt that have the Conservatives have long , their policy would have drive fraud down far and fast than our proposal will . thankfully , we do not have the opportunity to test that theory . give their appalling record — with fraud and error escalate every year since the pandemic and stand at £ 9 . 7 billion last year — I dread to think what they would have do when they turn their attention to these matter . the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire go on to ask whether the independent person would report on the use of power . yes , and those report — on both the psfa side and the DWP side — will be place before Parliament annually . he ask about non - driver and the point of suspend licence when not everybody drive . well , short of take the power to prevent somebody from walk , I fail to see how much far we could have go in that regard . however , I recognise — as I hope he do — that that be only one of a suite of measure that we be consider to move we forward in the power available to we . of course , it be important to recognise that the introduction of an independent person be not consider necessary by the Conservative Government in the third - party datum measure that they propose under their Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . we be introduce that measure not just for the psfa power or the eligibility verification measure , but for information - gather power and power of search and seizure . I understand that the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) be concern , but I fundamentally disagree with the idea that it be conservative to want to tackle benefit fraud , and that we should ignore the £ 7 . 4 billion - worth of welfare fraud last year . I certainly do not think that it be conservative to go after public sector fraud ; in fact , if it be slightly more conservative , we might not be in the terrible position we be in now . my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) raise a number of important question . time prevent I from run through they all now , but I would be delighted to meet he to discuss they far . I be especially concern by the case that he raise . one potential benefit of the eligibility verification measure be that it will allow we to detect overpayment early , but clearly we want to ensure that the DWP be handle such issue correctly first time . the ICO be mention by a number of member , include my hon . friend . just to clear that up , it be not a letter receive into the Department ; the ICO publish on its website today its finding and thought on the Bill at this stage . it recognise the step that we have take on proportionality , and I welcome those comment . the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) have concern about bank and the potential erosion of data protection power — that be not my view . the Bill will involve very limited data sharing . the Department for Work and Pensions be not monitor account , and we will fine bank if they overshare in that space . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) make an important contribution . to clarify , the Bill be not predicate on save £ 10 billion in welfare fraud ; it set out to save £ 1 . 5 billion over five year , but it be part of overall measure to save £ 8 . 6 billion over that period , because we do not accept the level of fraud in the system at present . the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) suggest that the Bill subject million of people to unwarranted financial surveillance . to give Members absolute clarity , we will not receive transactional information from bank , we will not look in bank account directly , and we will not ask bank to take decision on whether somebody have commit fraud . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) raise the question of clause 50 on the psfa side of the Bill and ask what constitute fraud . for clarity , it be standard for power to be take by the Secretary of State — or a Minister in this case — but in practice , qualified and experienced decision maker will consider case as authorise officer . the hon . and learn Gentleman go on to raise clause 91 and the removal of drive licence . I would gently say to he that this be an exist power hold by the Child Maintenance Service . the question of liable person and whether removal be proportionate would be a matter for a judge ; it would only happen after repeat attempt to secure repayment , and before any disqualification occur , an individual will always be give the opportunity to agree a repayment plan . this be a power of last resort , but I assure the hon . and learn Gentleman that if he have specific concern about the pursuit of fraud in Northern Ireland , I be happy to follow they up . as always , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) speak from the heart about the plight of his constituent and the challenge they face . I want to assure he that this be not a Bill that be intend to focus on the low - hang fruit of vulnerable people ; that be why it include some of the protection I set out early , and it be why we be put in place independent oversight for the debt recovery and eligibility verification measure . he ask about the right of appeal , and I can confirm that the right of review and of appeal against a ruling in the debt recovery space be write into the Bill . the important question of appointee be one that I want to address directly , give the point that the hon . Gentleman raise about his constituent ' s sister . to be very clear , that be something we have significant concern about after the previous introduction of the third - party datum measure , and the system will remove appointee . there may be circumstance in which those bank account need to be check if the appointee receive benefit themselves , but if they do not , they will be screen out . the individual who be go to do the independent assessment will be appoint by the Secretary of State . would it not be well for Parliament to agree the appointment of those individual , so that we can be assure that they be actually independent ? clearly , we will inform Parliament as to who that will be , but we will go through a proper recruitment process . if the hon . Lady be talk about the independent person to be appoint for the eligibility verification measure , we will go through a thorough recruitment process to ensure they have the expertise need . they will report every year to Parliament , and it be right and appropriate that they do so . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) for his support for part 1 of the Bill , but I understand his concern about the power as they pertain to the Department for Work and Pensions . one of his principal concern be about bank perhaps be unable to exercise those power appropriately ; what we be propose be not intend as a decision - make action , but as a data push . bank will not make decision — a human within the DWP will carry out that investigation . he have raise concern about potential error in the system , and to be clear , we acknowledge that this be a new power . we intend to scale it up in a " test and learn " phase , do so gradually so that we can get it right , but we simply can not ignore the problem and not look to take these power when we have a £ 7 . 4 billion problem with fraud in the DWP last year . turn to the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , I think I have already deal with the issue of carer ' s allowance overpayment and how we be start to put that right . to clarify again , we be not access bank account ; bank will be do that for we , but they will not be take decision as to somebody ' s benefit eligibility . the hon . Gentleman say that we should look at the efficacy of exist power to request information . we be do that through the updating of information - gather power and the right to compel information digitally . we will be move to a list of exclude organisation , rather than a list of organisation from which we be able to compel information . my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) raise a series of concern , which I know come from a good place . I be very happy to meet she to discuss some of these power — it be important that we get this right — but on the particular question of the legal advice and article 8 , although she be correct that Big Brother Watch do commission some legal opinion , we be confident that the power in the Bill be compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights . they be different power , distinct from the third - party datum power put forward as part of the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill , and we do think that they be compatible with the ECHR , include the right to a private life under article 8 . that be specifically because the third - party datum element be now narrow , and because we have include the safeguard that I have set out . we think the measure be justify in accordance with the law and be proportionate . the final speech be from the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) . again , I feel it be constructive , if slightly fantastical at point , and I may disagree about the extent to which the Conservatives have more sensible plan that have since be abandon by this Government . on the question of public sector fraud , I note that she point to action to be take to try to claw back public money . can I suggest to she that they seek to put that in a press release ? if they be not enough of a laugh stock because of their previous behaviour , they would be after seek to claim that they have a positive story to tell in that space . I will finish by reiterate the comment of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State : whoever you be — big business , covid fraudster , organise criminal gang seek to defraud the system or individual knowingly cheat on their benefit — it be not acceptable . we have a major problem , and we be take the power need to act . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Taiwo Owatemi Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Tim Farron will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Wendy Chamberlain Susan Murray the House divide : Ayes 343 , Noes 87 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) bill : Committal the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee Proceedings in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 20 March 2025 . the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which proceeding on consideration be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill ( Money ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of — ( a ) any expenditure incur under , or by virtue of , the Act by a Minister of the Crown , a person hold office under his Majesty or a government department , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Betting , Gaming and Lotteries that the draft Gambling Act 2005 ( operate Licence Conditions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Betting , Gaming and Lotteries that the draft Gambling Levy Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 12 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . with the leave of the House , I will bundle together motion 6 and 7 . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Register of Overseas Entities ( Protection and Trusts ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 6 December 2024 , be approve . environmental Protection that the draft Separation of Waste ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . adjournment ( February , Easter , May Day and Whitsun recess ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Thursday 13 February , do adjourn until Monday 24 February ; at its rise on Tuesday 8 April , do adjourn until Tuesday 22 April ; at its rise on Thursday 1 May , do adjourn until Tuesday 6 May ; and at its rise on Thursday 22 May , do adjourn until Monday 2 June . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Energy Development Proposals : Mid Buckinghamshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I rise to register my outrage at the unacceptable situation that all my constituent in Mid Buckinghamshire be face : a tidal wave of energy infrastructure drive by hype , speculation and a closed - minded approach to energy security . as we have see with countless other large - scale infrastructure project , be they road , rail or housing , it be rural area that be throw under the bus with no thought for the huge impact that both the construction and the operation of those project have on community . I therefore strongly encourage the Government to take note of what I believe be a tick time bomb that risk permanently devastating not just my constituency but countless other across the United Kingdom . I be sadly no stranger to the problem of big infrastructure . from the moment I be first elect , I have take every opportunity to put on record the terrible destruction that High Speed 2 have bring on my constituency , from the shameless turfing out of farmer , who have often be leave without compensation for year on end , to the sorry state of the road use by heavy good vehicle and the sheer size of the compound that litter the Buckinghamshire countryside — literally industrial waste — for there be no justification for spend £ 200 billion of taxpayer ' money on a railway that have effectively already become obsolete . the same be true of ground - base energy infrastructure , which be the least efficient form of energy production . put simply , the enormous loss of agricultural land require to double the share of national energy consumption generate by solar , which will amount to less than 10 % even with the propose increase , be not worth it . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? it would not be an Adjournment debate without the hon . Gentleman . I be interested to see how he will get Mid Buckinghamshire into his intervention . I be all ear . I remind you , Mr Shannon , that this debate be about energy development proposal in Mid Buckinghamshire . we be ready for your intervention . the hon . Gentleman mention the importance of land . the priority for agricultural land be to provide the food to feed this nation , not for solar energy project that clog and take away the land . my constituency be similar to his , and my interest be to ensure that that good land be keep for the production of food , as it should be . the hon . Gentleman be always on point on these matter . I will come to the important matter of food security later , but he be right . the inefficiency of some energy project come forward in Mid Buckinghamshire , as well as in community in Strangford , I dare say , be a huge challenge not just to food security but to the rural way of life that those in our community enjoy . it take 2 , 000 acre of solar panel to generate enough electricity to power 50 , 000 home on current usage — before everyone have two tesla on the drive — yet a small modular reactor require just two football pitch to produce enough power for a million home on current usage . it can not be right that the Government be pursue this technology . I put it to the Minister and to right hon . and hon . member across the House that nuclear be the answer , but finger seem to be in ear whenever it be raise . I assume that that be obvious to the Government , as be the vital importance of food security , which be directly compromise by take land out of food production and give it over to solar . the Government seem content with plough on . last week ' s revelation in the Daily Telegraph of intention to convert a tenth of our farmland to use for net zero give a blank cheque to those intent on destroy rather than preserve our countryside . the countryside be for farming . it be not a building site for solar panel , power plant , battery storage site or wind turbine . it be for grow food . it be for the local community and business that rely on it . attempt to take land away from food production in my constituency be simply unjustifiable . an unjustifiable 3 , 000 acre of land be already lose or at risk of be subsume by solar panel . those 3 , 000 acre be take out of food production , no long farm by family who have farm they for generation but be now turf out , with little to no compensation , and the land unlikely ever to return to food production . let we bear in mind that that be just for the project that have be propose or consent to . Rosefield be a monster project of immense scale . for this monstrosity alone , over 2 , 000 acre of land — much of it arable grade 3a and 3b — have be sell off to EDF Renewables for the construction of vast swathe of solar panel right in the heart of the Claydons . that land produce a 10 - tonne - a - hectare wheat harvest . many farmer would bite your right hand off to get that , but it be cast aside by the consultant and proposer of the site as low - grade land . it simply be not . as the name suggest , the area be rich in clay soil , which be incredibly valuable to farmer as it retain rich level of both nutrient and water . it allow we in Buckinghamshire to produce immense quantity of wheat , barley , bean , oilseed rape and much more . we be face a clear trade - off between food security and what be consider today to be energy security . member will know that I have consistently question the suitability and sustainability of solar as a renewable source of electricity . there be nothing renewable about land leave to rot underneath solar panel , or the huge amount of emission from the construction of these vast site . we in Buckinghamshire face an equal if not great threat from battery energy storage site . these ship container - sized unit use hundred of lithium ion battery to store surplus energy , which be later sell back to the grid to meet demand when require . not only be the battery storage site noisy and unsightly , but they displace water run - off because of their concrete basis , create light pollution , be a target for vandalism and be a huge fire risk , as I will discuss shortly . on top of that , such site be not a sustainable form of energy production . in fact , they do nothing more than hold surplus energy , no matter how or where that energy have be generate . in fact , with less than 5 % of today ' s energy consumption come from solar , the chance be that the energy store by these site have not come from the site next door . it be utterly shameful of BESS promoter to label their project as " sustainable " and " part of the solution " . it be , I be afraid to say , simply a matter of profiteer off the taxpayer while do little to nothing — that is , for those who do not enjoy a chemically fuelled bonfire . it have be prove time and again , with tragic result , how dangerous battery energy storage site can be . in September 2020 , for example , a fire at a BESS site in Liverpool take 59 hour to extinguish . while the promoter may spout about new technology guard we against fire today , it do not and can not justify place such site in rural area . that be because — surprise , surprise — it take far long for fire crew to respond in rural area , especially one that be prone to flooding , such as the Claydons , in my constituency , where three BESS application have be lodge in just one year . it be not surprising that pour concrete on to farmland exacerbate flooding , or that hundred of shipping container ruin the view for mile around . the propose energy development will create a strain on our valuable farmland in Mid Buckinghamshire and across Buckinghamshire more widely . many part of the county be on a floodplain , which will already be under additional strain because of these different energy development . will the Minister look again at these proposal ? we already have infrastructure demand because hs2 and housing , as well as energy development , be all go into a very constrained area in Mid Buckinghamshire . I be grateful to my hon . friend and fellow Buckinghamshire Member of Parliament for that intervention . she be absolutely right that the strain be put on our small , rural county from so many project — the cumulative impact of the energy proposal that be the subject of my speech , HS2 , East West Rail , mega - prison and so much more — make the attack on our countryside and the risk , to go to her point on flooding , all the bad . I just list a number of thing that should not be surprising . however , they seem surprising to promoter , who seem totally oblivious to the idea that farming give we food , give people job and a livelihood , and give community an identity and a vital source of income . however , that do not seem to have stop they flood the planning system in Mid Buckinghamshire with these BESS application . what make it all the more confusing be that , accord to the Government ' s newly form national energy system operator : " the number of speculative connection application have substantially rise over the past few year result in an excessively high volume of contract party when in reality only about a third of the volume of project will make it to Completion . " what we be actually see — what be very visible in Mid Buckinghamshire — be a number of these so - call zombie project that be clog up the system and cause incredible concern and outrage to local community , but that may actually never happen . that be simply absurd . my constituent be constantly be tell that the project be need for a transition to net zero , yet the vast majority will not even be complete . that go to show how misguide the Government ' s so - call energy security policy really be : unable to deliver and throw my constituent under the bus . it should therefore not be a surprise that the misguided and highly speculative nature of the BESS project have lead to countless rejection by local planning authority . Less than six week ago , when present with its first BESS application — a 500 MW site in the Claydons — Buckinghamshire council resoundingly reject it on the ground of fire risk , lack of access and an inappropriate site location . our local paper even describe the plan as a " terrorist ' dream " . the same go for York council , which reject a 100 MW site in the village of Osbaldwick on fire ground . the same reason lead East Renfrewshire council to reject a 40 MW site in the village of Eaglesham in Scotland and Dorset Council to reject a 60 MW facility in the village of Chickerell . I trust the Minister will have take note not just of those rejection but of the many other which be , if anything , increase by the week . this , I hope , demonstrate the clear , strong opposition from local community to BESS facility . it be not just about battery storage , solar farm , substation or whatever else form part of the Government ' s flawed approach to energy security . for constituency such as mine , it be about the cumulative impact of all that and more , over which , time and time again , the local community have have little , if any , say . for my constituent in the Claydons , nearly every major project have be government - sanction with little to no thought as to how , when we combine one of the UK ' s large solar installation , three battery storage site , two major new railway , a new substation and several new housing development , a collection of small village in the middle of the countryside be mean to cope . the short answer be : it have not . initially face with both East West Rail and hs2 construction , the latter ongoing for many year to come , my constituent in that part of Buckinghamshire now face a raft of new energy infrastructure , as well as yet more housing and a new prison . the cumulative impact be devastating , make bad by the fact there be no mechanism — no mechanism — within the planning system that allow the cumulative impact of multiple major infrastructure project in the same area to be account for when local authority be present with they . it seem logical , yet the Minister must recognise that there be no circumstance that necessitate the flattening of an area that serve no benefit to local resident and leave they in a near permanent state of disruption and misery . the late example of that glare omission be the application and subsequent rejection of Statera ' s plan , which I speak about a moment ago , to build a 500 MW BESS facility in the Claydons . it turn out that the promoter do not check that they could even get a grid connection on completion , as confirm by National Grid when press on that substation expansion plan before Christmas . this be yet more evidence of the speculative nature of government - back infrastructure project . just as well , with Statera ' s plan have now be reject . elsewhere in my constituency , yet another solar installation , at Callie ' s farm near Ilmer , be recently grant planning permission , join two other nearby site at Bumpers farm and Whirlbush farm in Kingsey . as a result , when someone enter Buckinghamshire on the train from neighbour Oxfordshire , they be meet not with farmland but with acre upon acre of solar panel . far south , and directly affect my constituent in Little Missenden , we find yet another potential BESS site at Mop End , which if build would require infrastructure reach 6 metre in height right in the heart of the Chilterns . in Long Crendon and the surround village , I and the local community be fight against Acorn Bioenergy ' s propose anaerobic digester , which once again can not be justify in the middle of the countryside , not when there be 140 lorry movement a day during construction and then operation through village — I declare an interest as they include my own village of Chearsley — that simply can not cope and can not be expect to cope . these be small rural village with small rural road , and often the front door to people ' s home , and the entrance to primary school and child ' s playground , be off those very same road . my hon . friend be make an excellent point about the shocking amount of development that be happen , and it be not just about energy ; he be also make an excellent point about the lack of local consent . it be shocking that the Government be not honour the opinion of local people . my hon . friend have make exactly the point that I want to make , with , perhaps , more succinctness than I have be able to manage . this be indeed about local consent . it be about community give their view and actually be listen to when it come to these project . far too often , the desktop exercise that be do in London or Birmingham or Leeds or Manchester , or any of our great city , be do largely by those who have little or no understanding of rural life — of the way our rural road actually operate , the way our farmland be actually farm , and the way our countryside actually work . if local people be listen to a little more often , we might not have some of the problem that these energy infrastructure project , or project such as HS2 or East West Rail , throw up on the land that any local will tell you flood three or four time a year . those do the desktop exercise say , " oh , that be nothing . it be nowhere near a floodplain . that land will not flood . " I have stand on many of these site in my own wellington boot a number of time , on the land that the consultant in the city say will not flood , with the water lap up at the top of my boot , and have go home with wet sock . that be a reality that local people often understand in a way these consultant and desktop exercise never would . I gently invite the Minister to acknowledge that no matter how sustainable such project claim to be , the hard truth be that whether it be during the construction or operation of these site , the transportation of material effectively offset any benefit and do permanent damage to a local area , exactly as it have with hs2 . only this week I object to yet another BESS application in the Claydons , in which the developer have not even bother to include a battery safety management plan . it be utterly disgraceful , and a reflection of just how speculative these application be become . despite this speculation on solar and battery storage , wherever we go in Buckinghamshire there be few if any warehouse roof with solar panel . that be a real shame , give the amount of unused roof space that could generate 15 GW of solar - derive energy without damage a blade of grass or any crop grow in any field . that be equivalent to 46 million solar panel . why , then , be the Government not actively incentivise the use of large - scale roof - mount solar , particularly on industrial building — the distribution centre and warehouse and factory that we see pop up all around we , certainly near my area when we go out towards Bicester or up towards Milton Keynes ? that be a question that be rightly be ask by farmer across my constituency who stand to lose everything when a solar developer come along , or indeed someone involve in any energy project , with little or no compensation provide . this be , I be afraid , fairly typical in relation to infrastructure , especially in rural area where a farm be not just a source of income but someone ' s livelihood , and the very shape and beauty of the landscape in rural community . when it come to a project the size of Rosefield , which primarily affect tenant farmer , the loss of income not just for individual farmer but for the whole area be devastating . that be because , unlike a freeholder — in this case , the Claydon estate — tenant farmer do not have ownership right and be therefore not entitle to proper compensation , although this and other sizeable project be spearhead by large multinational energy company for which compensation be normally just a rounding error . however , it be not just farmer who be affect . Unpaid parish councillor across my constituency be spend ever more time fight this infrastructure tidal wave . I dare say many have become rather good at it follow year of do battle with HS2 , but that by no means justify thousand of hour each year be spend by countless individual — countless hero — sometimes combine with significant sum of money , fight project that local resident do not want and do not ask for . they , along with farmer and local business owner , be pay the price for this nonsensical approach to energy security . for project that be give the go - ahead , there be little chance of promoter pay up for the damage that they will invariably do to our local road network . that be the sad reality for infrastructure project , as we have see with the countless other that I have reference , although I be proud of the work that I and Buckinghamshire council do to push East West Rail to pay up for the damage it cause . there be no such prospect with energy infrastructure , but the fact be that , with so many site in one area , the impact on our road from all the construction traffic would be far bad than any promoter be prepared to admit . just as we have see with the railway and the highway work clash , it will delay all project in the area , ultimately cost the taxpayer and prolong the misery for my constituent . this be the reality . if something be not do , we will lose our ability to produce food and we will see the continue erosion of rural community , and all while do little to source our energy sustainably . energy infrastructure do not belong on farmland . it do not belong in Mid Buckinghamshire . let we drop this nonsense and go for nuclear instead . I thank the hon . member for secure this evening ' s Adjournment debate . it have certainly not be lack in hyperbole , and I look forward to respond to his specific point . phrase such as " tick time bomb " , " intent on destroy " and " throw under the bus " suggest that we have take a rational view on some of these decision , although I will say that his comment about " two tesla on the drive " suggest that our constituency be quite different . perhaps that will come forward in my remark . I will pick up on the general thrust of the hon . Gentleman ' s speech before turn to some of the specific . he put forward a case that wrongly assert that the only option be either a clean power system with renewable at its heart , or nuclear . I will come to his point about smr shortly , but I agree with he that there be a rational case for balance . we see nuclear as play a critical role in our energy system in the future , but we also understand that build out a clean power system require build renewable as well , because they be cheap to operate and they deliver home - grow energy security in a way that gas plant do not . I will come back to the clean power action plan ' s pathway in due course . the truth be that the hon . Gentleman spend the past 20 minute outline — in fact , he be quite open and honest about this — that he want no infrastructure build in his constituency at all , yet I assume that his constituent still want to be able to rely on that infrastructure in their daily life , include railway , hospital , school , energy and prison . the hon . Gentleman and his colleague certainly want we to use prison much more , but he do not want we to build prison anywhere in his constituency . I be always very careful about the argument on nimbyism , but at the heart of this issue be a real question about the fact that , at some point , we have to acknowledge that if we be to build infrastructure in this country , it have to be host somewhere . as someone who have one of Europe ' s big onshore wind farm just outside my window in my constituency , I recognise that some constituency will have to host important infrastructure on behalf of the country , and we all need to play a part in that . the reality be that deliver energy security require we to build much more infrastructure , even if that include small modular reactor . however , it be estimate that demand for electricity in this country will double by 2050 , so the need of all our constituent , include the hon . Gentleman ' s , for electricity and the job of the future will mean build much more infrastructure . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the cumulative impact of infrastructure , which the Government have try to wrestle with . that be partly why we launch the strategic spatial energy plan , so that we have a holistic approach to plan the energy system in the long term — the work should have be start a long time ago , but it be not undertake by the previous Government . alongside that , colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have launch the land use framework for the same reason : to try to plan the long - term future for land across our country . give that food security be incredibly important , how do we protect land for food , and how do we identify piece of land where we will build nationally important infrastructure ? that be incredibly important . I repeat the point that we need to build infrastructure in this country . I be afraid that we have bury our head in the sand for far too long with respect to the infrastructure that be necessary , and the grid be struggle as a result . it be really important that we find a way to build that infrastructure in a holistic way that recognise the cumulative impact on community . I want the hon . gentleman to appreciate that I recognise that point . the hon . Gentleman note that several project be in the queue to connect to the grid — I think there be some 746 GW in the queue at the moment . I say gently that the reason it have get quite so out of control be that the previous Government do not manage the queue properly . there be not sufficient reform to manage it , so there be , as he say , several zombie project that will never be develop but be take up space in the connection queue . we have announce that we want significant reform to ensure that we be prioritise the project that will actually be deliver , that be important for our energy security and , crucially , that will free up space for demand project to be connect to the grid , which be important for our economic growth . More on that will be announce by NESO and Ofgem in due course . the hon . Gentleman will not be surprised to hear that I can not give an answer to some of his specific point , because for legal reason I have to be careful not to comment . however , Rosefield , the solar farm that he mention , be at the pre - application stage . the application for development consent be expect to be submit in , I think , Q3 or q4 of this year . at this point , it be developer - lead . on a number of the point that the hon . Gentleman raise , I should say that the Government do not go out and identify these project ; developer identify the project and then have a conversation with landowner . the problem with the argument that the Minister be try to construct be that every time a developer come along with a proposal , and the community push back with " why be you do this ? " , the answer — every single time — be " because the Government be ask we to . " that be what frustrate community and frustrate I every single time . if the Minister accept that that be the developer ' excuse , he can either correct they and say , " no , the Government be not ask you to do this , " or find a way to challenge those presumption and the cumulative impact , which I be grateful that he say he want to address . I take the point , but although the Government absolutely do say , " we need to build a clean power system and therefore these project be important , " what we do not say be , " please build a solar wind farm in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . " these be developer - lead project ; it be developer who identify the site . on the question of land ownership , the Government be not in the business of appropriate land for energy project . the landowner have make a decision to sell their land for these project , and that be a relationship that they have with the developer . it be a developer - lead process . I know that the hon . Gentleman will continue to provide his view as the process continue . if the Rosefield application be accept by the Planning Inspectorate , he and all his constituent will be able to engage with the planning process and register as interested party . I reiterate that although the Government think that the planning system could be considerably more efficient , that be not about remove the robustness of the system so that community no long have a voice . we want community to have a voice in the process , but we do not want they to be hang around for year until decision be make . we want the process to be more efficient , but community should absolutely still have a voice . that be incredibly important . if the application come to the Secretary of State , it be the duty of the Secretary of State to be satisfied that the pre - application consultation process have be carry out properly and adequately , in compliance with the Planning Act 2008 . I know that the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that , give my Department ' s quasi - judicial role in these application , I can not comment on anything more specific . the hon . Gentleman raise a number of point on battery . battery storage be incredibly important . to build the clean power system we need , we need a mix of both short - duration storage , which battery provide , and long - duration storage , which we have not build in this country for an extremely long time . we have announce that we will build new long - duration storage , but we know there be an important role for battery to play in short - duration storage so that we can store the clean power generate from wind and solar for when we need it . of course , these project will go through the planning process too . I be aware that East Claydon have be reject by the local council . of course , the applicant have a right to appeal . again , I hope the hon . Gentleman understand that it would be wrong for I to comment on that particular case at this point . more generally , battery be important both for maintain storage and for reduce people ' s bill by store clean power , which we know be much cheap in the long run . this minimise the investment in new generation , so if we get the mix of battery right alongside other renewable technology , we can help to minimise the need to build more infrastructure by store power for when we need it . battery play an important role in balance the electricity system . we outline in the clean power action plan that between 23 GW and 27 GW of grid - scale battery could be require to meet our decarbonisation goal by 2030 . not far from my constituency , one of Europe ' s large battery plant be announce recently , so this infrastructure be be share across the UK . I agree with the hon . gentleman on rooftop solar , which be a real opportunity . he rightly talk about warehouse , and we have a lot of multi - storey car park , a lot of factory and a huge number of roof in this country that I be happy to see cover in solar panel . it be not an either / or . there be certainly a role for rooftop solar , and we have announce that we want to see a rooftop revolution in solar . we have be work on bring forward new building standard so that new build house and commercial building have this as a key part of their design . there be also a critical role for ground - mount solar , and we can meet our ambition if we combine the two . the previous Government launch a solar taskforce to build out as much capacity in rooftop solar as possible , while also increase the number of ground - mount solar project , and we have reconvene it to address not just the roll - out but how community can benefit much well from host that infrastructure . we look forward to publish that soon . the hon . Gentleman and other hon . member speak about food security , and I make it clear that we take the view that food security be national security . it be critically important that we maintain food security across the country . even if we build out all the solar that we currently expect to build , it would still take up less than 1 % of the UK ' s agricultural land , so we do not see food production and renewable energy as compete priority . the two can co - exist . we all want to see a resilient and healthy food system . the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and for Mid Buckinghamshire both mention floodplain . tackle climate change will be one of the most important way to reduce the frequency of flood in such area , which be crucial for maintain arable farmland . we have to tackle the climate crisis if we be to maintain our food security , but we also want a balanced approach to land use . the hon . Gentleman mention the land use framework , which be announce last week . unsurprisingly perhaps — far be it from I to say this — the Daily Telegraph misleadingly suggest that all of this farmland will be reuse for renewable energy project . that be not what the framework say . it say there be a number of use for that land in relation to sustainability , such as where there be peatland or particular environmental scheme that could help to lock in carbon , support biodiversity and wildlife , and help we to meet our climate obligation . it be not that the land will be use to build energy project , as the article wrongly say . we be determined to bring community with we . we want community to have a voice and for community that host infrastructure to benefit from it , so we will deliver a package of community benefit . on small modular reactor , as I say at the beginning of my remark , we do not see energy as come from one source or another . Nuclear will play a critical role in our energy mix far beyond 2030 . it provide a critical amount of baseload , as well as skilled and well - pay job across the country . we want to see the SMR programme roll out . we inherit much of that from the previous Government , but it have not really be progress and none of it have be build during those 14 year . we now want to move at pace to deliver it . we see nuclear as important , alongside a balanced renewable system . I conclude by again thank the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire for secure the debate . he and I will not agree on everything , but I hope we can find a way to ensure that we build a resilient energy system that balance the need of different community . on his point about the cumulative impact , I hope we can find a way through that , so that all community benefit from infrastructure , but some will have to host it as well . question put and agree to . House adjourn .