I have to acquaint the House that this House have this dayattende his Majesty in the House of Peers , and that his Majesty be pleased to make a most gracious Speech from the Throne to both Houses of Parliament , of which I have , for great accuracy , obtain a copy . I shall direct that the term of the Gracious Speech be print in the Votes and Proceedings . copy be available in the Vote Office . the Gracious Speech be as follow : my Lords and Members of the House of Commons it be mindful of the legacy of service and devotion to this country set by my beloved Mother , the late queen , that I deliver this , the first king ' s Speech in over 70 year . the impact of Covid and the war in Ukraine have create significant long - term challenge for the United Kingdom . that be why my Government ' s priority be to make the difficult but necessary long - term decision to change this country for the well . my Ministers ' focus be on increase economic growth and safeguard the health and security of the british people for generation to come . my government will continue to take action to bring down inflation , to ease the cost of live for family and help business fund new job and investment . my Ministers will support the Bank of England to return inflation to target by take responsible decision on spending and borrowing . these decision will help household finance , reduce public sector debt , and safeguard the financial security of the country . legislation will be introduce to strengthen the United Kingdom ' s energy security , and reduce reliance on volatile international energy market and hostile foreign regime . this Bill will support the future licensing of new oil and gas field , help the country to transition to net zero by 2050 without add undue burden on household . alongside this , my Ministers will seek to attract record level of investment in renewable energy source and reform grid connection , build on the United Kingdom ' s track - record of decarbonise fast than other G7 economy . my Government will invest in Network North to deliver fast and more reliable journey between , and within , the city and town of the North and Midlands , prioritise improve the journey that people make most often . my Ministers will strengthen education for the long term . step will be take to ensure young people have the knowledge and skill to succeed , through the introduction of the Advanced British Standard that will bring technical and academic route into a single qualification . proposal will be implement to reduce the number of young people study poor quality university degree and increase the number undertake high quality apprenticeship . my Ministers will take step to make the economy more competitive , take advantage of freedom afford by the United Kingdom ' s departure from the European Union . a bill will be bring forward to promote trade and investment with economy in the fast grow region in the world . my Ministers will continue to negotiate trade agreement with dynamic economy , deliver job and growth in the United Kingdom . my Ministers will introduce new legal framework to support the safe commercial development of emerge industry , such as self - drive vehicle , introduce new competition rule for digital market , and encourage innovation in technology such as machine learning . legislation will be bring forward to support the creative industry and protect public interest journalism . proposal will be publish to reform welfare and support more people into work . my government will promote the integrity of the Union and strengthen the social fabric of the United Kingdom . work with NHS England , my Government will deliver its plan to cut waiting list and transform the long - term workforce of the National Health Service . this will include deliver on the NHS workforce plan , the first long - term plan to train the doctor and nurse the country need , and minimum service level to prevent strike from undermine patient safety . record level of investment be expand and transform mental health service to ensure more people can access the support they need . my government will introduce legislation to create a smokefree generation by restrict the sale of tobacco so that child currently age fourteen or young can never be sell cigarette , and restrict the sale and marketing of e - cigarette to child . my Ministers will bring forward a bill to reform the housing market by make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to purchase their freehold and tackle the exploitation of million of homeowner through punitive service charge . renter will benefit from strong security of tenure and well value , while landlord will benefit from reform to provide certainty that they can regain their property when need . my government will deliver a long - term plan to regenerate town and put local people in control of their future . legislation will be bring forward to safeguard the future of football club for the benefit of community and fan . a bill will be introduce to deal with the scourge of unlicensed pedicab in London . my Government be commit to tackle antisemitism and ensure that the Holocaust be never forget . a bill will progress the construction of a national Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . my Government will act to keep community safe from crime , anti - social behaviour , terrorism and illegal migration . a bill will be bring forward to ensure tough sentence for the most serious offender and increase the confidence of victim . my Ministers will introduce legislation to empower police force and the criminal justice system to prevent new or complex crime , such as digital - enable crime and child sexual abuse , include groom . at a time when threat to national security be change rapidly due to new technology , my Ministers will give the security and intelligence service the power they need and will strengthen independent judicial oversight . legislation will be introduce to protect public premise from terrorism in light of the Manchester Arena attack . my government will deliver on the Illegal Migration Act pass early this year and on international agreement , to stop dangerous and illegal Channel crossing and ensure it be the government , not criminal gang , who decide who come to this country . my government will continue to champion security around the world , to invest in our gallant Armed Forces and to support veteran to whom so much be owe . my Ministers will work closely with international partner to support Ukraine , strengthen NATO and address the most pressing security challenge . this include the consequence of the barbaric act of terrorism against the people of Israel , facilitate humanitarian support into Gaza and support the cause of peace and stability in the Middle East . my government will continue to lead action on tackle climate change and biodiversity loss , support develop country with their energy transition , and hold other country to their environmental commitment . the United Kingdom will continue to lead international discussion to ensure that Artificial Intelligence be develop safely . my government will host the Global Investment Summit , the European Political Community , and the Energy Conference , lead global conversation on the United Kingdom ' s most pressing challenge . I look forward to welcome his Excellency the President of the Republic of Korea and Mrs . Kim Keon Hee for a State Visit later this month . my government will , in all respect , seek to make long - term decision in the interest of future generation . my Ministers will address inflation and the driver of low growth over demand for great spending or borrowing . my Ministers will put the security of community and the nation ahead of the right of those who endanger it . by take these long - term decision , my Government will change this country and build a well future . member of the House of Commons Estimates for the public service will be lay before you . my Lords and Members of the House of Commons other measure will be lay before you . I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsel .