Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Fuel Poverty what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of fuel poverty . what step his Department be take to tackle fuel poverty in winter 2024 - 25 . the previous Government ' s record on fuel poverty be absolutely woeful , and we have have to inherit an incredibly challenging trajectory . we be do everything we can to shift that by upgrade home for family in fuel poverty , drive up standard in the rental sector so that we lift 1 million people out of fuel poverty and support over 3 million household with our warm home discount , all while run with our mission for clean power . despite Scotland be one of the most energy - rich nation in Europe , decade of mismanagement by different colour of UK Government — whether Labour or Conservative — have lead to a shocking one third of household in Scotland live in fuel poverty . that number be set to rise , along with energy bill . the Government be elect on Labour ' s pledge to cut energy bill by £ 300 , but yesterday the chair of GB Energy admit that that be " not in its remit " and be completely unable to say when bill would come down , alleviate fuel poverty . if this be not another broken promise from the Prime Minister , can the Secretary of State confirm exactly when in this parliamentary term consumer in Scotland will see that reduction ? fuel poverty be devolve in Scotland . the Scottish Government have have the opportunity to make a dent in this problem for almost 20 year and they have not . even now , as we be ramp up upgrade to help people with fuel poverty , the Scottish Government be raid more than £ 200 million from retrofit fund that could help family today . I will take no lecture from the hon . gentleman on how we tackle this problem . I call Wendy Chamberlain . she be not here . I call Frank McNally . I commend the Minister for the announcement of support for those in most need this winter . give Scotland ' s colder climate , do the Minister share my view that , as she have just express , the Scottish Government ' s decision to cut £ 200 million from the retrofitting budget be fail people in Coatbridge and Bellshill and across Scotland , and that with record funding from this UK Government in the Budget , they should reverse that cut ? my hon . friend be completely right . there be no justification for raid retrofit budget , because we know that be the route by which we upgrade people ' s home to deliver home that be warm and cheap to run . we be do our bit to drive down energy bill and deliver clean power , which be the route to energy security and financial security . the Scottish Government need to crack on and do their bit . renewable energy : worker ' right what step he be take to support worker ’ right in the renewable energy sector . the Government come into office six month ago and be determined to ensure that clean energy job be high quality , well pay and secure , with strong trade union . I want to take this opportunity to commend EDF Renewables for its recent recognition agreement with three trade union . through the Office for Clean Energy Jobs , we be work with industry and trade union to support fair pay and worker ’ right , and ensure that worker across the country can benefit from the economic opportunity of the net zero transition . datum centre at Blackpool ' s propose high - performance datum centre campus Silicon Sands will be power by renewable energy and cool by liquid immersion technique , with the excess heat repurpose into neighbourhood building and home . Silicon Sands could lead the way in an environmentally friendly approach to data centre , while create thousand of well - pay job for my home town . will the Minister meet I to discuss how the Department can support my vision to build a well Blackpool ? I would of course be delighted to meet my hon . friend to talk about this great project , Silicon Sands , which will bring job and be really innovative for his area . the wide point be really important — for too long , our coastal and industrial community have not have the job opportunity they deserve . we be determined to change that . can the Minister assure the House that her ambition for renewable energy can be achieve without chinese slave labour ? yes — of course , we ensure that the high standard be keep in all these thing . the Government ' s position be to make sure that we be very careful about they . the right hon . Gentleman may be refer to solar , which be a particular issue that people have raise . we have a solar taskforce , which have be set up exactly to look at those point . rise — Order . I know that member will find it unusual that Mr Speaker have leave the Chair during question . it be because he be go to attend the memorial service for Lord Hoyle , so I be sure that the whole House want to send our good wish to he . Energy Suppliers : Winter support for Consumers what discussion he have have with energy supplier on support for consumer during winter 2024 - 25 . what discussion he have have with energy supplier on support for consumer during winter 2024 - 25 . what discussion he have have with energy supplier on support for consumer during winter 2024 - 25 . what discussion he have have with energy supplier on support for consumer during winter 2024 - 25 . we know that this winter have be difficult for many people who be struggle with high energy bill . we agree the winter support package with industry and Energy UK to get support to the people who need it , and £ 500 million be be provide through industry . when combine with the support that we be provide through the warm home discount , that amount to £ 1 billion for the family who we know need help this winter . as well as resident , business in the ceramics sector struggle with high energy bill and face many other pressure . sadly , only yesterday more than 80 worker in my constituency lose their job when Royal Stafford , a historic ceramic manufacturer for nearly 200 year , go into liquidation — a devastating blow for the worker and their family . will the Secretary of State meet GMB official , Ceramics UK and I as a matter of urgency to explain how the Government will support the ceramics sector , protect job , and tackle the serious difficulty that energy - intensive industry face in decarbonise ? my hon . friend be right to point out that we need to reduce energy bill for business , include those in energy - intensive industry . I be sorry to hear about the job loss in his constituency , and one of the ministerial team will be happy to meet he . I must add , however , that this be exactly why we be run our clean power mission . we see that the route through which we can drive down bill be break our dependence on global fossil fuel market over which we have no control , in order to take ourselves off the rollercoaster of price rise and price hike that be so damaging to business . while we do that , we be work with Ofgem and industry to ensure that business be not be lock into expensive contract , and to ensure that they have much strong redress when thing go wrong . I thank the Minister for all her work in this area . I know from conversation with my constituent that energy cost be a large part of the cost of live crisis for they . follow the conservative party ' s failure to protect our energy system and invest in home - grow clean power , can the Minister give we an update on what step be be take to tackle my constituent ' high energy bill ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . the reason we be so expose as a country to global fossil fuel market and the rollercoaster that be damage business and hurt consumer be the conservative party ' s failure to invest in home - grow clean power and to upgrade people ' s home to insulate they from high price . that be a record of which the Conservatives should be ashamed , and it be a record that we be determined to change . many household in my constituency be struggle with high energy bill because the last Government leave we expose to the unpredictable fossil fuel market . do the Minister agree that the only way in which to protect resident in my constituency and across the country permanently be to unlock clean power that we control here in the UK ? my hon . friend be completely right . every solar panel and every wind turbine that we put up take we close to deliver the energy security that we need to achieve financial security for family . that , combine with our drive to upgrade people ' s home , be what will protect household in the long term . it be the central mission of this team , this Department and this Government , and it be why we be run at clean power by 2030 . in anticipation of the energy market reform that the last Government neglect to carry out , I look forward to hear confirmation from my colleague on the Front Bench that we may be able to find a way of insulate people in the long term — for the transition to decarbonise heat , for example . can my hon . friend confirm that , in future , we may be able to have a social tariff that protect the most vulnerable from the excess of energy price ? I agree with my hon . friend that we urgently need to tackle the challenge of affordability . energy be not a luxury good ; it be foundational , and for too many people , this essential good be not affordable . a social tariff be one mechanism of respond to this , and there be different way in which that can be implement . we be look at all the option , to ensure that family can get this essential good at more affordable price . People live in rural location disproportionately live in housing stock that be old and colder and do not have gas . in the Minister ' s discussion with energy supplier , will she please not forget to talk to the supplier of liquefy petroleum gas and oil , since many of our constituent — particularly with the withdrawal of the winter fuel payment — be suffer a great deal ? we be very alive to the issue in rural community , and we be work to ensure that there be solution for all type of home . we have record application to our boiler upgrade scheme for heat pump , a large number of which be from rural household . we be very clear as we roll out our plan that there will be a solution for every single household , so that everyone can benefit from home that be warm and cheap to run . this winter , many of my constituent be concerned about energy outage . last Thursday , the Cooper school and Glory Farm school have to close for the entire day when they lose all electricity supply . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can ensure the grid have the capacity to avoid these outage , which be so damaging to home , business and critical public service ? yes , we will meet the hon . Gentleman . we be work to ensure that outage be not the norm . this be obviously link to weather issue that we be have to respond to , but the team have be work to ensure that household be not put in a difficult situation , and when they be , that we be respond as quickly as possible . what would help bill payer be the £ 300 cut to energy bill that the Labour party promise in its manifesto . instead , bill go up £ 149 in October , they go up £ 21 in January , and they be go up again by £ 99 in April . can the Minister explain where the source of this departmental ineptitude lie , and would she like to apologise to the people of these island for write cheque that her party can not cash ? the hon . Member explain exactly why we need to wean ourselves off fossil fuel market . that be why it be critical that we deliver clean power by 2030 — that be the central mission of this team , and we be run at it . the Scottish Government do have the lever to protect household in fuel poverty . before the hon . member criticise we , they should get their house in order and get on with the job . prior to the election , the Secretary of State promise to cut my constituent ' energy bill by £ 300 . would the Minister repeat that promise at the Dispatch Box ? we have a manifesto commitment to reduce energy bill by £ 300 . we be do everything we can . we have a legacy of record high energy bill . we be run at clean power because we think that be the route to deliver low energy cost . we be upgrade people ' s home because we know that be the route to deliver home that be warm and clean to run . we be do everything we can . the conservative party oversee a crisis for household , so before its member start lecture we on what we should do , they should be hang their head in shame . National Wealth Fund : opportunity for Industry what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on opportunity for industry under the national wealth fund . the national wealth fund be an essential part of our clean energy and growth mission . recent investment include £ 20 million of investment into XLCC , a subsea cable manufacturer , to develop a new facility in Scotland , create 900 job ; £ 28 million of investment into Cornish Metals to finance lithium production , support more than 300 local job ; and £ 1 billion , work with Barclays and Lloyds , to upgrade social housing , give people warm home and low bill . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . in the Liverpool bay area , just off the coast of my Southport constituency , we already have a number of wind farm , include the Burbo Bank scheme . can he outline to the House what more his Department be do to ensure that , as we put up these wind farm , job be create in constituency like mine ? my hon . Friend ask a really important question , which member from right across this House will agree with . the situation we have inherit from the last Government be that Germany have almost twice as many renewable job per capita as Britain , Sweden almost three time as many , and denmark almost four time as many . through a combination of great British Energy , the national wealth fund and a clean industry bonus , we be make sure that we do not just build offshore wind in this country , but reap the huge industrial opportunity from it . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Court of Session ' s judgment on Rosebank and Jackdaw be to do with their consent , not their licence ? when he come to consider his decision on those consent , he should do so on the basis that these be exist , not new , licence . that be an individual planning case , so I will be careful about what I say . what I will say to the hon . Lady be that the last Government make an unlawful decision , accord to the court . we be go to follow due process . GB Nuclear be about to make two decision on small modular reactor , and I know my right hon . friend will agree that those smr and their supply chain should be build here in the UK . although we have the capability in Sheffield , we do not necessarily have the capacity , so will he work with I , my colleague and business in Sheffield to look at proposal for a nuclear manufacture centre of excellence ? I welcome that question from my right hon . friend , who be a fantastic champion of these issue . we will look at any proposal in detail , but she make such an important point , which I would make to all member of this House . People will have different view on this issue , but clean energy be the economic opportunity of the 21st century — whether it be small modular reactor , offshore wind , hydrogen or carbon capture . in our first six month , this Government have show what it mean to deliver at pace on the investment that this country need . have the Secretary of State engage in any discussion with Northern Ireland industry on the strategic use of the sovereign wealth fund ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I discuss this issue in detail in advance of the preparation of the great british Energy Bill , and it be also relevant to the national wealth fund . we want our institution to serve all country in our United Kingdom , and I encourage he and industry in his constituency to make application to the national wealth fund , which be there to support people and industry across the UK . the Government policy to decarbonise the grid by 2030 rest on the National Energy System Operator ' s assumption of a £ 147 per tonne carbon price , but manufacturer be line up to tell the Energy Secretary that it would destroy british industry . will he guarantee today that for the remainder of this Parliament , we will have a low carbon price than Europe ? NESO make that assumption , but it do not reflect our assumption that the carbon price will be significantly low . I will not start predict market price . what I will say to the hon . Gentleman be that the difference between he and we be that he believe that we should double down on fossil fuel as the answer to the problem face the country , whereas we know that clean energy be the way forward . Clean Power by 2030 what progress he have make on achieve clean power by 2030 . since this government come into office , we have take a series of step to deliver clean , home - grow power for Britain , include lift the onshore wind ban , consent to nearly 3 GW of solar and oversee the most successful renewable auction in history . in December , we publish our clean power action plan , which have be widely welcome by business as provide the route map that simply do not exist under the previous Government . energy project in East Anglia will be crucial for generate the clean , cheap power that this country need to grow , from wind and solar farm to nuclear power station , include the much - need Sizewell C . these project will bring high - skilled job to East Anglia , include in my constituency of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket . what action be the Government take to ensure that the infrastructure improvement to connect these project to the grid will not be hamstring by the planning process ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and congratulate he on his advocacy . member across the House have a decision to make here . as the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , say early , we be expose to fossil fuel and we see what be happen in global market with price go up . if we want to change that and have clean home - grow power that we can control , we have to build the infrastructure we need . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) on support it and on support our planning reform , and I urge member across this House to do the same . give that the british taxpayer be pay billion of pound in subsidy to fall tree in Canada and ship the wood across the Atlantic to burn in the Drax power station , can the Secretary of State tell the House where the clean energy lie within that ? have he read the KPMG report ? if he have , will he come to the House and make a statement on his assessment of it ? the last Government consult on what , if any , future support there should be for biomass power station . we be study that consultation and we will make a statement in due course . community energy project can help we achieve clean energy by 2030 . Darley Abbey Community Energy be surge ahead with plan for 100 kw archimede screw on the River Derwent — the same river that power the world ' s first factory 200 year ago . the project could generate enough hydroelectricity to power all the business at Darley Abbey Mills , but there be hurdle in place , include planning permission , insurance cost and the need for up - front capital . what can the Government do to support local renewable community project such as these to succeed ? my hon . friend make a fantastically important point , which be that we often think about plan reform as be about the large - scale project , but it be also about unblock the small - scale project . have a national energy policy statement that include 2030 , work with local authority and make sure there be enough planner to make the decision — all those thing can all make a difference . I congratulate my hon . friend on her advocacy for this work , and I congratulate the local community on this project . expert be clear that the saving from the Government ' s clean power action plan will be wipe out by 2050 if airport expansion at Heathrow , Gatwick and Luton go ahead , and that rely on so - call sustainable aviation fuel would use up to half the UK ' s agricultural land . do the Secretary of State agree with the scientist that , while ambitious clean power plan be hugely welcome , if this government also back airport expansion , they be not go to meet their climate obligation ? as the Chancellor say last week , any aviation expansion have to take place within carbon budget and environmental limit . I would also point out that this Government have achieve more in six month than the last Government do in 14 year . we have lift the onshore wind ban , consent nearly 3 GW of solar , set up GB Energy and the national wealth fund and hold the most successful renewable auction in history . this government be deliver on clean power . I call the shadow Minister . to achieve his clean power plan , can the Secretary of State say exactly what local community need to do to convince he that solar farm on agricultural land be not appropriate in their area ? it be quite extraordinary . we be absolutely expose as a country , yet the Conservatives oppose clean power . they have a blanket opposition to clean power , so let every person in the country know that when energy bill remain high , they be oppose the thing that will bring they down . it be quite extraordinary . this be the conservative party that lose the last general election — its bad defeat in 200 year — yet if anything , since the election , Conservative Members have get bad and learn nothing . the Secretary of State recently approve a 524 - hectare solar farm in Lincolnshire — a farm link to Dale Vince , a £ 5 . 4 million donor to the Labour party . the public have a right to be certain that this decision be carry out properly , so will the Secretary of State refer his conduct of this application to the independent adviser on ministerial standard ? yes or no ? I be glad the hon . Lady ask , because I take no part in this decision — I recuse myself . [ interruption . ] here we go . they have nothing to say about the country , just desperate scraping of the barrel . let the whole House hear that they oppose a solar plan that will put up solar panel throughout the country and give clean power to the british people . the state of the conservative party be something to behold . off - grid community : energy price what step he be take to support off - grid community with energy price . what step he be take to support off - grid community with energy price . our commitment to make Britain a clean energy superpower be the only way to protect bill payer permanently . the Government be determined to support all household with their energy cost , include those that be off grid , and eligible low - income household be be support with the warm home discount . I urge household off the gas grid to contact their electricity supplier , if they have one , to see what support they can receive . many of my constituent , as well as be off grid , have home build of non - standard material — clunch or wattle and daub — and those home be also often list . what support will the Minister provide to my constituent who be look to retrofit their home to move away from oil and improve insulation ? the hon . Lady be right that , particularly in rural area , certain house type be often much more difficult to heat due to much old building material and a lack of insulation . the Minister for Consumers , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , be work to make sure our warm home plan can reach all community and all type of household , and I encourage the hon . member for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) to feed in any idea for how we can do that for these rural and off - grid household . every winter , Altnaharra in my constituency be the cold place in the UK . I can think of lot of pensioner who be face with the invidious decision of whether to switch off and shiver or to run into debt . it occur to I that the Department for Work and Pensions may well have a database of these people , so will his Majesty ' s Government get the DWP to work with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to identify they and give a help hand ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that helpful point . where we can co - ordinate information and datum across Government to identify people who need more support , we will do so . my Department be currently work with the Department for Work and Pensions to release as much of that information as possible , and we hope that we will be able to make progress in due course . do the Minister agree that new oil and gas development will not give we energy security ? as the fossil fuel they produce will be sell internationally , they will not lower bill and they will undermine our climate commitment . my hon . friend be , of course , right to say that , even if oil and gas be extract from the continental shelf , they be sell on the international market . the company that extract the oil and gas be in the business of try to make as much profit as possible and will sell to the high bidder , so it do not protect price for consumer in this country . we be clear in our manifesto that we will not issue licence for new exploration and new field , but that we will continue to support those licence that have already be issue . our future do not lie in more oil and gas ; it lie in clean power , which be why we be move at pace to deliver that . warm Homes Plan what step he be take to introduce the warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce the warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce the warm home plan . the warm home plan will upgrade up to 5 million home with low - carbon solution such as heat pump , solar and insulation to deliver home that be warm and cheap to run . we have already kick - start delivery , with up to 300 , 000 home be upgrade this year alone . we will set out our plan in the spring on how we will ramp this up . in 2023 , it emerge that a number of substandard retrofitting work be carry out as part of government scheme . in some case , property be leave with structural damage . when household seek redress , they find that many of the authorised contractor have fold , and they have be leave to pick up the bill . will the Minister assure I and my constituent in Shipley that , under the warm home plan , sufficient safeguard will be put in place to protect household from rogue company ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we be aware of too many case where home upgrade have not be do to the require standard . we be very clear that the ad hoc , fragmented system of regulate home upgrade that we inherit from the last Government be in dire need of reform . we will overhaul that system so that when people have home upgrade , they can be confident that they will be of the high standard and that when thing go wrong , they will have as much protection as possible and redress within the system . the previous Government be content to sit back and allow developer to build home that have lock people into year of expensive and dirty gas heating . how will the Minister ensure that the 1 . 5 million new home the Government will deliver will not keep people dependent on outdated and costly gas heating system ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the new home we build must be fit for the future and must be decent home that comply with our carbon standard . we be work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to bring forward the future home standard , and we will set out our plan for that in due course . I have be shock by the number of mouldy and damp home that I have visit in my constituency . no one should be force to live in such condition . we have some of the leaky home in Europe as a result of the last government ' s failure to deal with the problem . will the Minister tell I how our warm home plan will improve housing condition and bring down bill for my constituent in Bournemouth West ? cold , damp home that be hard to heat be the reality for too many household in this country . that be the legacy of the party opposite and a legacy that we be absolutely determined to turn around . we be committed to upgrade home in the rental sector with our minimum energy efficiency standard so that we can make cold , draughty home a thing of the past . we will ramp up our warm home plan so that my hon . friend ' s constituent and constituent across the country will benefit from home that be warm and bill that be low . will the Minister acknowledge the amazing contribution of group such as New Forest Friends of the Earth , which this very morning have be lobby their mps in Parliament Square on warm home initiative ? they will be come to the Government with some possibly costly proposal , but I hope that the Government , despite the economic legacy that they allegedly inherit , will give they a sympathetic hearing . I thank the right hon . gentleman for remind we about our economic inheritance . we be reach out to organisation and stakeholder across the country — industry , charity and third sector organisation — to feed into our warm home plan , so we be keen to hear idea . we be conscious that we have an ambitious programme and we need to do a big scaling - up of home upgrade across the country , so we be definitely in the market for hear from and reach out to organisation that can come up with idea . be it not a fact that , regardless of how much money be put into a warm home scheme , social tariff or whatever , consumer can never be insulate against the massive cost of the mad net zero policy that will require thousand of new turbine , acre of solar farm and mile of new transmission line , all at a cost to the consumer ? how on earth do the Minister believe that we will deal with the issue of fuel poverty in this country with that cost ? I will say to the right hon . Gentleman that at the moment , family be not insulate from fossil fuel market . we have see one of the bad energy crisis , which have have a huge impact on the cost of living . the status quo be not tenable . we already have record - high energy price and the only way that we be go to bear down on that be through clean power . the alternative be to do nothing — but we have see the impact of do nothing over the last 14 year and consumer and constituent across the country be the one be impact . we will absolutely drive forward with clean power by 2030 because that be our route to provide an energy system that deliver energy security and that can deliver financial security . the Minister come to the House previously and give we some encouragement about the warm home scheme and how it have be discuss with the region , the Northern Ireland Assembly in particular . since that statement , have she have the opportunity to speak to the relevant Minister in the Department of Enterprise , Trade and Investment in Northern Ireland to ensure that we can all gain from the warm home scheme , which the Minister be propose in a positive fashion ? we be speak to all the devolved administration . we be constantly engage with they , include in our inter - ministerial group . on this specific issue of home upgrade and how we drive up standard , we be work with the Scottish , the Welsh and the Northern Ireland Administrations . Home Insulation scheme what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of government - fund home insulation scheme . home insulation deliver warm home and low bill . I have visit government - back scheme across the country and see their impact on household and consumer , but we also know that there be too many example of home not be upgrade to the require standard . we be not happy or comfortable with that . we be commit to overhaul system so that when people have home upgrade , they can be confident that they will be of the high standard and that , if thing go wrong , they will have redress so that we can take they on this journey with we . far to the question raise by the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and several other hon . member , I , too , have pick up numerous case in my constituency of government - sponsor defective home insulation work and of extortionate , poor - quality and defective work of unscrupulous cowboy contractor who masquerade as operate under government scheme . this include Mrs King in Helston in my constituency who have pay out £ 19 , 000 to have insulation instal and then remove . I be pleased with the Minister ' s response , but surely the Government need to do more to give householder confidence that these project be both cost - effective and provide proper redress . the hon . Gentleman be right : it be just not good enough for any householder to get a home upgrade that be not up to standard . I be sorry to hear about the example of Mrs King . we be work with member across the House on support a number of individual case . if it be a government - back scheme that be at fault , mechanism be in place for the work to be remediate at low cost . but , at the end of the day , we have acknowledge that the system require root and branch reform so that when consumer opt for upgrade they can have the confidence of know that they will deliver what we be say : warm home that be cheap to run . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . next week , the Select Committee will be hear from some of the victim of the botched solid wall insulation instal under the previous Government ' s energy company obligation and GB insulation scheme . that include people whose home may well have to be rebuild , as the cost of repair the damage may be high . will the Minister tell we how such a thing could have happen , and will she confirm that she be happy to come back to the Select Committee to add to the comment that she have already make about rebuild consumer confidence after the disaster under the previous Government ? what be clear to we as a new Government be that the system of regulate home upgrade be too ad hoc and too fragmented . accountability be not clear enough and consumer be not at the heart of the system . we be committed to turn around that system . put simply , when someone have a home upgrade , they need to have the confidence that it will work for they and that , when thing go wrong , redress will be put in place . I be commit to update the Select Committee on the progress that we be make on get a grip of what we have inherit and on make sure that such a thing never happen again for consumer . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as we have be hear , dickensian condition of cold , damp and mouldy home be shamefully on the increase . in my constituency , more than 4 , 000 household be have to make that difficult decision between eating and heating because of the previous Government ' s dither and delay on insulation . however , even now , local authority and family be in limbo , anxiously await confirmation of the 2025 - 26 funding for ECO4 and the great British Insulation scheme through a ministerial statement . will the Minister act with the urgency that be need to bring those scheme and the warm home scheme forward to tackle fuel poverty ? I thank the hon . member for point out the inheritance and the legacy . that be material , because it be the backdrop to everything we be try to do . we be clear that we need to drive forward with momentum and pace . that be why we be already upgrade up to 300 , 000 home this year alone . it be also why we be work with local authority and social housing provider to deliver warm home that be cheap to run for community across the country . we be absolutely move at pace with our warm home plan . we will be set out that plan , and at its heart be an ambition to ramp up the number of upgrade massively , so that more family across the country can benefit from what we know work : warm home and low bill . electricity Bills : Standing charge what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of recent trend in level of stand charge for electricity bill . we know that people be frustrate with standing charge , and we be commit as a Government to reduce they . as an initial step , the regulator Ofgem be consult on give people the option of no standing charge tariff within the price cap , and we will continue to work with the regulator to ensure that we lower standing charge in the fairest way possible . Lesley from Tring be one of my constituent who just miss out on the winter fuel allowance . she say she will be " spend most of the winter in bed " because she be struggle with energy cost . while so many be struggle with the cost of energy , standing charge disproportionately affect those on low income such as Lesley . will the Government meet Ofgem to discuss those disparity and prepare detailed action to review standing charge for a fair system ? I be sorry to hear about the case of Lesley , and I know there be people across the country who have this frustration with standing charge . I reassure the House that we have a commitment to reduce they . we be work with Ofgem on a set of option . our challenge be to ensure that standing charge do not penalise some household and that they be as fair as possible . that be what we be commit to do , and that be what we be work every day to deliver . energy - base Development : Mid Buckinghamshire what assessment he have make of the potential impact of energy - base development proposal in Mid Buckinghamshire constituency . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman not just on this question , but on secure an Adjournment debate last night on exactly the same subject . as I state last night , clean power project in his constituency and across the country be vital to achieve our clean power mission , which will give we energy security and bring down bill for family . of course , all proposal be assess on their individual merit through the planning system , and where community host infrastructure , the Government believe they should directly benefit from it . in answer my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) early , the Secretary of State completely dismiss the legitimate concern of rural community and farmer who be be ask to take on energy project . yet last night in the Adjournment debate , the Under - Secretary find a more reasonable tone , accept the point on cumulative impact in constituency such as mine that be be ask to take up to 3 , 000 acre of project . will the Under - Secretary go into more detail about how the Government will put in mitigation on cumulative impact to protect community such as mine ? I would be test the patience of the Deputy Speaker if I be to go into more detail than I could in an Adjournment debate . the point I make clearly to the hon . Gentleman be that it be not a credible position for he to take that there should be absolutely no infrastructure build anywhere in his constituency . the reality be we need to build new infrastructure , not just energy infrastructure but right across the public sector . I have say clearly that the work we be take forward on the strategic spatial energy plan and on the land use framework by colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be about try to ensure that we manage the good use of land , but we will have to build new infrastructure , and community will have to host it . great British Energy : Regional Offices whether he have make an assessment of the potential merit of establish a great British Energy office in every region . we announce that great British Energy ' s headquarters will be in Aberdeen , recognise the decade of experience in that city as the energy capital of Europe and our determination to invest in good , well - pay job in the city . with £ 8 . 3 billion - worth of investment behind great British Energy , it will deliver economic value and job right across the supply chain across all part of the country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . great British Energy be the right idea for our time : public ownership , investment in supply chain and the reindustrialisation of our nation . I commend the Minister on the progress he have make on set up great british Energy . can he outline to the House what opportunitie our publicly own champion will bring to Southend East and Rochford and the wide south - east region ? my hon . friend be right . of course , the great British Energy legislation be still go through Parliament at the moment ; we hope that process will conclude soon , but in the meantime , hard work have be take place to identify all the opportunity for great British Energy to invest . both Opposition party — the SNP and the Conservatives — seem to oppose Great British Energy . every single investment that it make , every job that it create , and every part of the supply chain that it incentivise will be deliver by great British Energy against the SNP and the Conservatives , who have oppose it at every single stage . I ask they to rethink their position on what be a publicly own champion to deliver for community , create good , well - pay job , and deliver the clean power future that we need as a country . we hear from the chief executive officer of great British Energy the other day . he say that it be not in his brief to cut bill by £ 300 . what be great british Energy for , then ? it turn out that the job be not go to materialise either , so how will the Government make sure that we do not have some bureaucrat job - creation scheme in every region of the country , as the Minister ' s Back Benchers be call for , but actually have a company that invest in thing that otherwise would not be invest in ? technology such as wind and solar be already investable , so will great british Energy focus on those thing that need to be bring close to market ? the right hon . Gentleman strongly make the case for the importance of a publicly own energy champion invest in part of the energy system that be not currently get that investment ; I appreciate his recognition of that . what the interim chair of Great British Energy say very clearly — of course , it have not appoint a ceo yet — and what we have say consistently be that great British Energy ' s headquarters in Aberdeen will of course create job , but the majority of the job that will be create by that investment will come from the investment that great British Energy make in supply chain , in project , and in develop the clean power that we need . great British Energy will champion the industry that the right hon . Gentleman speak about and deliver job in this country to reindustrialise community , and Conservative Members will have to explain why they be against those job when they be create , include if they be create in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be refreshing yesterday to have some clarity on great British Energy ' s plan , not from the Secretary of State or from Ministers — that would be ask far too much — but from the Manchester - base chairman of the Aberdeen - base company , Juergen Maier . he state that cut energy bill be a " very long - term project " — not £ 300 by the next election , then — and that the Aberdeen headquarters , if we can call it that , will employ only 200 to 300 people , far from the 1 , 000 initially promise , although that may come in 20 year ' time . on behalf of the ten of thousand of energy worker worry for their future , and indeed the million watch their energy bill rise yet again , can I ask the Minister whether he agree with the now very interim chairman ? the shadow Minister must be the only Member of Parliament represent Aberdeenshire who be against investment in Aberdeenshire . he will have to explain to his constituent and business right across his community why he stand up and oppose investment in his constituency . of course , in do so , he misunderstand the role that great British Energy will play ; the key point of it be that it will invest £ 8 . 3 billion over the lifetime of this Parliament in clean power project right across the country , help to unlock private sector investment and create supply chain in this country . the shadow Minister have now turn his face against all of those job that will be create in Aberdeen , which be a question he will have to answer for his constituent . the Minister have a right cheek to come to this Chamber and talk about protect job in Aberdeenshire , when ten of thousand of energy worker be go to lose their job because of this Government ' s decision on the North sea . the british people be promise low bill by the next election ; now , they have be give a vague assurance that in the very long term bill might come down , and they be mean to be grateful for that . the arrogance of this Government be staggering , if not surprising . they be so drive by ideology that they will not even allow Government lawyer to defend licence issue for Rosebank and Jackdaw , and be willing to see import of fracked gas increase as long as they go down in history as the Government who shut down the North sea . while pensioner freeze as the Minister ' s Government strip they of the winter fuel allowance , and as people be make unemployed due to his government ' s position on the North sea , can the Minister see why people across this country be quite miff that the Government get to waste £ 8 billion of their money on the GB Energy white elephant ? first , let we be absolutely clear that great British Energy will invest in clean power project right across the country , include in the shadow Minister ' s constituency . secondly , he have an absolute cheek to come to this Chamber and talk about job in oil and gas , when more than 70 , 000 job be lose in North sea industry over the past decade — the shadow Minister be in the Energy Department for at least a chunk of that time . the truth be that a transition be under way in the North sea . conservative Members be quite happy to bury their head in the sand and pretend that it be not happen as thousand of people lose their job . this Government be determined to build what come next ; the shadow Minister stand opposed to that , and he will have to explain to his constituent and the people of Scotland why he do not support that investment . that bring we to topical , and question and answer will have to be very brief . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . in recent week , we have see continue rise in price in global fossil fuel market , with wholesale gas price last month 60 % high than a year ago , which be cause by a number of factor . I want to be clear with the House : as long as Britain remain so dependent on fossil fuel , we will be in the grip of these global market control by petrostate and dictator , with direct impact here at home . the only way to get off this rollercoaster be with clean , home - grow power that we control , and that be what the Government ' s clean energy mission be all about . the Scottish Borders have some of the most beautiful countryside in the whole of the United Kingdom , but it be go to be destroy by the massive pylon be build by ScottishPower Energy Networks in pursuit of Scottish Government and UK Government policy . do the Secretary of State think it be right to charge ahead with these plan , which be firmly oppose by local community ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , and I have say it throughout this Question Time , that local community should have a say , but we have a decision to make as a country . do we build the clean energy infrastructure to protect we from volatile fossil fuel market , or do business , family and the public finance — £ 94 billion be spend during the energy bill crisis — remain expose ? I know what I would choose : we protect ourselves . green energy be the economic opportunity of the 21st century , and in an ever more unstable world , home - grow renewable be critical to our security and self - sufficiency . what will the Secretary of State do to make sure that Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , and place like those , benefit from new green job growth ? my hon . Friend ask a really important question . the whole point of our clean industry bonus be to incentivise british manufacturing . that be so important for the country , and it be not do by the last Government . we be determined that his constituent and constituent across the country will benefit . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this government ' s ideological obsession with intermittent renewable at the expense of stable , clean , baseload nuclear power will , we think , be their great mistake . they have delay the small modular reactor down - selection competition , and we have not hear a peep about the final investment decision on Sizewell C . however , none of that come close to the monumental act of self - harm of decide to throw away and bury — out of reach , underground — 20 year of nuclear - grade plutonium , which could be use to drive forward a nuclear revolution in this country . how do the Secretary of State think this will play with the pro - growth , pro - nuclear mps in his own party who be already worried about he be a drag on growth ? first , may I take this opportunity — I know we be short of time , Madam Deputy Speaker — to congratulate the permanent shadow Energy Secretary , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , on the birth of her baby boy ? I be sure the whole House will want to join I in congratulate she . I also congratulate the hon . gentleman on his temporary elevation . on the issue of plutonium disposition and the decision I and my hon . friend have make , we be act on the good advice we have inside Government . it have the potential to create thousand of job — thousand of long - term job — and it be the right thing to do not just for job , but for nuclear safety . Stocksbridge Speciality Steels in my constituency have world - lead specialist capability to produce high - grade steel part currently use in aerospace . I be proud of this Government ' s steel strategy , which will ensure we buy British for new infrastructure , and great British Energy provide an ambitious opportunity to bring down bill and ensure energy security . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the potential for use specialist steel capacity at Liberty Steel in Stocksbridge for new , net zero energy infrastructure ? South Yorkshire have a proud history of steelmaking , as I see for myself when I be at Sheffield Forgemasters last week . we see a huge reduction in steel production in this country on the last government ' s watch , and we want to turn that around , which be why we be deliver a steel strategy . as ever , I would of course be delighted to meet my hon . friend to talk about how we can make this work . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . while we eagerly await progress on bring community energy into the great british Energy Bill when it come back to this House , will Ministers reassure community group around the country that they will enlarge and expand the community energy fund of £ 10 million , which be so successful that it be currently oversubscribed ? I know that the hon . Lady have have long discussion with the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , on these issue . we be absolutely determined that , as part of great British Energy , community energy will be massively expand . that be our manifesto commitment , and that be what we will deliver . hon . member around the Chamber have ask how their community can benefit , and community energy will be an essential part . in my constituency of Newport West and Islwyn , we have ever - expand semiconductor facility and datum centre . the primary mission of this Government be growth , but that growth could be stifle if there be not sufficient grid capacity alongside these exciting innovation . what be the Minister do to make sure that south Wales have sufficient grid capacity to support these advance and facilitate much - need growth ? my hon . friend make a very important point . although we be clearly on the sprint to deliver clean power by 2030 , demand for electricity in this country be likely to double by 2050 . our reform around connection to the grid be important — they will make sure that there be space for demand project , such as data centre , to connect — but so be build the grid for the future , so that we have capacity in our network to deliver on our growth aspiration . can the Minister assure the House that as the Government push to decarbonise the electricity grid , the vast majority of new electricity generation and transmission infrastructure will be build in the UK , not import from foreign country , include China ? we be absolutely determined to build the manufacturing base in this country . I mention the investment in XLCC . that be a crucial part of build the supply chain . the supply chain have be erode over a decade or two ; we be determined to build they up . look around the car park in Parliament , I notice that we have only two charge port , both occupy . by support the installation of more charge port in Parliament and other workplace across the country , we can encourage more people to make the environmentally friendly switch to electric vehicle . what measure be the Government take to promote the installation of charge port in workplace ? I can not speak on behalf of the House of Commons authority , but under the building regulation of 2021 , all new non - residential building and those undergo major renovation must install charge infrastructure . in government , along with colleague in the Department for Transport , I host roundtable yesterday , and I will host another today , on how we can unlock much more investment in charge infrastructure , because that be critical in support the transition to electric vehicle . I take part in last week ' s very successful Nuclear Week in Parliament , and be pleased to see so many official from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero engage in it , but the dark cloud on the horizon for I and my constituent be that the Scottish National party Government in Scotland still use the planning system to block new nuclear development , and the job and economic opportunity that it bring . what can the UK Government do to promote new nuclear development in Scotland ? I have huge respect for the right hon . Gentleman and completely concur with he on this issue . Nuclear be an essential part of our clean energy future . the demand for electricity in the year ahead — there will be a 50 % increase by 2035 , and demand will probably be double , if not more , by 2050 — mean that we need all the technology at our disposal : renewable , nuclear and other . the SNP be 100 % in the wrong place on this , but I be glad to say that Scottish Labour be in the right place . when I visit Birkby junior school , I see that tackle climate change and pollution be one of its key priority . do the Minister agree that set a strong nationally determine contribution at COP29 and commit to an ambitious clean power target be important in demonstrate that the Government be intent on tackle climate change , especially at a time when other global leader be not ? last week , the UK formally submit its NDC to the United Nations framework convention on climate change . it be a world - lead , ambitious target that we hope will demonstrate ambition to other country . in that NDC , we have a youth clause for the first time , and I be very keen to talk to member across the House about how we can well engage with school , community and young people to bring they on board with we as we seek to achieve our ambition . will the Minister agree to meet the wonderful Cumbria Action for Sustainability and I to address some of the imperfection in the Government home insulation programme ? it do not properly support old rural - community property that be single - skinned , not so easy to insulate , and therefore not so easy to keep heat cheaply . I be happy to meet the hon . gentleman . we know that we have a job to do to ensure that all insulation be up to standard and that we have the right measure for every type of household . I be keen to engage with he and member across the House . the UK have a fantastic £ 26 billion clean tech sector , lead the way in innovation and carbon reduction for everything from clean power to sustainable agriculture . however , all too often , red tape and bureaucracy be lock in dependency on fossil fuel and foreign oil and gas . how can we work across Government to cut back on this unnecessary red tape , and ensure that our scheme support the lead tech and innovation that our good - of - british producer be bring forward ? there be huge potential , and with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , I will chair an artificial intelligence energy council , look at not only how we can meet the future demand of AI , but how AI and technology can help we deliver the infrastructure and energy system of the future . my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) make an important point , which we will take away . in the village of Shapwick in my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole , 20 % of property have be lie empty because their owner , Aster housing association and the National Trust , can not afford to bring they up to standard . National Trust home be typically solid - wall , thatch , not on main gas , and list . what plan be there to support the owner in achieve energy efficiency , so that we can get those property occupy ? let we be frank : the big prize that have elude past government for a long time be a proper plan to upgrade all type of building , not just residential property . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , and I be work on that closely with colleague from across Government . it be part of a big version of the warm home plan , which be also about building . we will definitely take away the experience that the hon . Lady raise . what engagement have the Minister have with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities council leader on local power plan ? do he agree that a partnership approach by Government , council and community organisation , such as the West Lothian Climate Action Network , be key to the success of local power plan ? I agree with my hon . friend . the local power plan be a key part of what Great British Energy will deliver . it will give community the power to develop local power project wherever possible , and to achieve the social and economic benefit of do so . we be engage with a number of stakeholder across the UK . because of the devolution settlement , our main contact will be with the Scottish Government , who have their relationship with COSLA , but we be determined that local government across the UK will help drive this forward , and will have the capacity to support community in do so . I thank the Minister with responsibility for energy consumer for agree to convene a roundtable tomorrow on the subject of radio teleswitching switch - off at the end of June . the problem will be particularly acute in community like mine ; we be well behind the rest of the country when it come to smart meter roll - out . when she come to the meeting , will she have a target for get we the number of smart meter that we need ? the right hon . member be right to raise this issue . we have to deliver on the teleswitching transition . we be behind where we need to be , but we be work with industry and Ofgem to make sure that household be not leave in the dark , and that everyone can upgrade to smart meter , which will be much well for they . I be keen to work with he and member from all part of the House to make sure that we get this right for his community and other community that be affect . the Government procurement budget be around £ 300 billion . can the Minister please tell we what percentage of his allocation will go to british business ? will he confirm that where we have to import , no modern slavery will be import into this country ? on the second question , I completely agree with my hon . friend , who be an eloquent champion for tackle modern slavery . I know member from all part of the House share her view . we need to do well as a Government , in term of the guideline inherit from the last government , and the solar taskforce be look at those issue . her first question relate to something that we be discuss with our colleague in government . the economic and social value we can get as a country from the procurement budget be huge and untapped , and we need to do something about it . the £ 80 million swimming pool support fund to help make pool more energy - efficient be face a significant underspend before it expire in a few month ' time . will the Minister urgently meet Eastbourne borough council , Better , and I to discuss unlock this national underspend to help fund solar panel and pool cover at Eastbourne Sovereign centre , where I learn to swim ? I be massively in favour of solar panel on swimming pool and lido — I be an occasional lido user myself — so I be fully on board with the hon . Gentleman ' s point . I will pass it on to colleague in government . Southampton Itchen have many victorian and inter - war home that be poorly insulate and therefore expensiveto heat , especially as the Conservative party drag its foot and do not invest in clean or affordable energy . what step be the Minister take to improve the insulation and energy efficiency of my constituent ' home ? this be hard , partly because of the fiscal backdrop , but we be work on a comprehensive plan so that we can help not just the poor — we want to help those in fuel poverty — but people across the income spectrum through a more universal offer . if we can get fund for up - front investment , there will be massive payback ; that be the chance . we all know that . it be a hard nut to crack , but we be do our good to do so . final question : Richard Tice . energy supplier be now forecast that the energy price cap will go up in April by another 5 % , make for some 16 % since last summer . will the Secretary of State tell the House when bill will come down — or will net stupid zero mean that they will only ever go up ? it be a particular pleasure to end with the hon . Gentleman . here it be : a decision for all member of the House to make . we be on the rollercoaster of the fossil fuel market ; we have no control over they . the mission of this Government be to take back control with clean , home - grow power . I urge he and Members across the House to support take back control . National Cancer Plan with permission , I wish to make a statement on the national cancer plan . today be World Cancer Day . almost everyone in our country have be affect by cancer , either themselves or through a friend or relative . have lose both my parent to cancer , I be so grateful to the Prime Minister for give I this job . he have give I the chance of a lifetime to do my parent proud by create the kind of compassionate and humane healthcare that all our constituent deserve . I be also pleased to be lead by a survivor of kidney cancer , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . his experience as a patient will be invaluable to we in the month ahead . I pay tribute to the amazing cancer charity who do fantastic work to help people live with cancer , support bereaved family and drive vital research in this area — Macmillan , Cancer Research UK , Cancer52 and Marie Curie to name just a few . Lord Darzi ' s investigation set out the scale of the challenge that we face in fix the NHS , and how desperately we need to improve cancer diagnosis rate , wait and outcome . he find that " the UK have substantially high rate than our european neighbour , nordic country , and country that predominantly speak English " . there be close to 100 , 000 more case of cancer in 2019 than in 2001 . while survival rate at one year , five year and 10 year have all improve , the rate of improvement slow substantially during the 2010 . Lord Darzi also note important inequality in the provision of cancer care ; people in the most underserved area be more likely to present as an emergency . as Cancer Research UK point out in its submission to the investigation , the 62 - day target for referral to treatment have not be meet for almost 10 year . last May , performance be at just under 66 % , with more than 30 % of patient wait long than 31 day to start radical radiotherapy . for all those reason and more , we do not have a second to waste . that be why the Prime Minister kick off this year with our elective reform plan , set out how we will cut the long waiting time from 18 month to 18 week . from March next year , around 100 , 000 more people every year will be tell if they have cancer or not within 28 day , and around 17 , 000 more people will begin treatment within two month of diagnosis . that be why this year , we will spend £ 70 million on replace old radiotherapy machine with new , more efficient model . that be why in the King ' s Speech we put forward an improved Tobacco and Vapes Bill , help to reduce around 80 , 000 preventable death and put we on track to a smoke - free UK . while around 40 % of cancer be cause by avoidable factor such as smoking , the backdrop be one of an age society . Cancer Research UK have forecast half a million cancer case each year by 2040 . we be prepare for the future now , with our 10 - year health plan for the NHS . the plan will set out the framework of reform that we need to ensure well outcome and to meet the grow challenge that we face in the fight against this dreadful disease . the plan will play to Britain ' s strength as a global leader in the development of advanced therapy , use our strong academic and life science industry . we should remember that the NHS be the first health service in Europe to commission CAR - T cellular therapy for blood cancer patient . on this World Cancer Day , I can announce that we will build on that legacy by invest in a cutting - edge , world - lead trial to transform breast cancer care through artificial intelligence . nearly 700 , 000 woman will take part in this trial , test how cut - edge AI tool can be use to catch breast cancer case early . thirty testing site across the country will be enhance with the late digital AI technology , ready to invite woman already book in for routine screening on the NHS to take part . the technology will assist radiologist by screen patient to identify change in breast tissue that show possible sign of cancer , with referral for further investigation if require . if the trial be successful , it have immense potential to free up hundred of radiologist and other specialist across the country to see more patient , tackle rise cancer rate and save more life . it be just one example of how british scientist be at the forefront of transform cancer care , and of the promising potential of cut - edge innovation to tackle one of the UK ' s big killer . this government know that unless we do thing differently , our NHS will remain in the dire state in which we inherit it . that mean proper reform , from do away with burdensome process that hold back frontline staff to hand more power to local leader so that they can deliver for the community they know well . it also mean embrace new technology , include AI , to transform the way we deliver care and to improve patient outcome . today ' s trial be yet more evidence of this Government take action to bring in the reform that be desperately need . as the Prime Minister set out last month , our plan for change will put the UK on the front foot , unleash AI to drive up health service and shift the NHS from analogue to digital , as part of our 10 - year plan . our 10 - year plan will ensure that the NHS be there for our grandchild and future generation , but we believe that the increase number of cancer case and the complexity of cancer care mean that we need a specific approach to cancer . we be determine both to bring down the number of life cut short by cancer and to ensure that many more people go on to lead a full life after their treatment . that be why I be today announce a call for evidence for our new national cancer plan that we will publish follow the 10 - year plan in the second half of this year . we will look at the full range of factor and tool that will allow we to transform outcome for cancer patient while improve their experience of treatment and care . we will make the United Kingdom a world leader in cancer survival by fight the disease on all front — through well research , diagnosis , screening , treatment and prevention . however , we can not do this alone , and that be why we be launch this call for evidence from patient , doctor , nurse , scientist , our key partner and other member of the public on what should be include . to support that work , we will relaunch the child and young people ' s cancer taskforce , co - chair by the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and Professor Darren Hargrave , with Dr Sharna Shanmugavadivel as vice - chair . I ' ve put my tooth in — apology if I pronounce that wrong . the taskforce will bring together the country ' s top expert to set out plan to improve treatment , detection and research for cancer in child , which will feed into the plan . at every stage , we will ensure that patient voice be hear . I look forward to update the House on the progress of the plan , the taskforce and the trial throughout the year . many of we on the Government Benches remember with pride the previous Labour Government ' s record in the fight against cancer . we introduce landmark legislation to ban smoking in public place , protect a generation of child from the harm of second - hand smoke , while put record sum into smoking cessation programme . at the dawn of the millennium , we launch a national cancer plan , which lead to fast cancer diagnosis and treatment time , increase funding for cancer service , equip the national health service with radiotherapy machine — many of which be still there — and expand cancer research funding , so that a new generation of scientist could answer the call . what do that plan lead to ? survival rate go up . the number of patient diagnose and treat on time go up . the number of life live well after cancer go up . that be our record in government , and we will do it again . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and I thank all the NHS worker , charity , scientist and other work to help those with cancer . we can all agree that tackle cancer should be a top priority for the NHS . from diagnose people quickly to start treatment quickly and use the late technology and drug , we all want to see improvement . the recent trend in cancer survival rate be positive . the one - year survival rate for cancer increase by 5 . 9 % between 2010 and 2020 , and the five - year survival rate increase by 4 . 3 % in the same period . despite those improvement , we be not yet where we want to be , and we will be up front about that . in government , we take action to catch cancer soon and boost survival rate , with initiative such as lung cancer screening and prostate cancer trial , and we welcome that Labour be continue with that mission . we will work constructively with the Government on that , as we all want to achieve the same positive outcome . however , the statement as a whole be rather disappointing . the Minister have tell we that this be a cancer plan , but it be not ; it be a statement that there be to be one . the Government say that they want cancer survival rate to increase and that they be go to have a plan do not make it so — we need the plan itself . the announcement of the AI trial in breast cancer be a welcome approach . artificial intelligence have the capacity to revolutionise the way we diagnose disease , and I be delighted that the Government wish to explore those opportunity . we also very much welcome the relaunch of the child and young people ' s cancer taskforce , and be pleased it will be able to continue its valuable work under the co - chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and Professor Darren Hargrave . it be just a shame that the Labour Government waste seven month by suspend the conservative taskforce , only to reinstate it now . I note the Minister ' s comment about wait time to start treatment , and we agree that these must improve . I be sure it will not have escape his notice that NHS Wales , which have be under a Labour Administration for 25 year , have a poor performance , and I be certain he would not want party politic to affect such an issue . can he tell the House what conversation he be have with his Welsh counterpart to improve cancer care there ? I be also concerned that last month , the Government appear to quietly abandon the target of ensure that patient receive treatment a maximum of 62 day from an urgent referral of suspect cancer , despite the Health Secretary have say before the election that a Labour Government would meet that target within the first term . will the Minister clarify his commitment to the 62 - day target ? More scanner be , of course , welcome , but what be the Government do to ensure that there be enough train professional to interpret the result of the scan effectively ? with charity such as Macmillan and Marie Curie be hit with devastating increase in national insurance contribution , what help will be provide so that they do not have to cut back the vital support and guidance service they provide to cancer patient ? anyone who have face cancer will know that time be of the essence . the second half of the year — if it be not until December — could be quite a long time from now . will the Minister therefore be more clear about when he intend to publish the plan ? may I recommend use the evidence collect in our 2022 call for evidence , as well as the policy of the interim major condition strategy , publish in 2023 , to speed up the plan ? the quick the Government act , the more life they will be able to save . I start by genuinely thank the shadow Minister for the co - operation she have pledge as we seek to improve the outcome for people with cancer . this be not a party political issue . we all want people to be diagnose more quickly and to be put on the effective treatment pathway as quickly as possible , and we all want people to have well outcome . I would just remind she , however , that while progress be make over the past decade , as I refer to in the statement , Lord Darzi clearly set out that the rate of progress be much slow than in comparator country , and that we could and should have be on a much well trajectory . that be why we be committed to a new national cancer plan — something for which the sector have be call for some time . we be go to consult on that plan . I hope the shadow Minister be not suggest that we should just pull a plan out of thin air without any consultation with the sector , patient or anybody with any interest in cancer . of course , thing have change over recent year . new technology have advance and scientific progress be advance , although there be still some area where , stubbornly , there be not enough research . we need to build up the case for research and get the funding in ; I think especially of brain tumour , where , quite frankly , thing have not progress at all . we need to ensure that in the 10 - year cancer plan , we really drive forward in some of those area , use the late technology and scientific advance . the shadow Minister ask about target . I just say to she that we have actually strengthen target , rather than set new one for cancer . currently , the NHS be on track to deliver against its cancer target for this year . yes , we should be ambitious where we can , and that be exactly what this Labour Government be go to do . I be delighted to announce to the House that we will be open a drug trial for glioblastoma brain tumour in May , in memory of my late sister , Margaret . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] but for how long will progress on this depend on people bake cake , run marathon and organise dinner ? when will the NHS and the National Institute for Health and Care Research get their act together and do something for the 3 , 200 people who will be diagnose with this dreadful illness this year ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question . those of we who know Margaret miss she very much ; she be such a tower figure in the Labour party for so many year , and we on the Labour Benches have a lot to thank she — and , indeed , my hon . friend — for . my hon . friend be absolutely right on research . this be one area where , quite frankly , we have not do well enough . we have not make any progress . I know she will continue to champion more research . with our new national cancer plan , I hope that she will be push on an open door , because this be one area we absolutely have to do much well in . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . nearly every family have a cancer story , whether it be a personal fight or that of a love one . a 10 - year plan from the Government be a welcome step , as the previous Government break their promise to implement a 10 - year cancer strategy that would have make a real difference to patient . we on the liberal Democrat Benches be very proud that our cancer campaigner , my hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , secure from the Government a commitment to introduce such a plan . test for cancer , diagnose and start treatment quickly reduce stress and anxiety . also , if the cancer be catch early , it be more likely to be treat successfully . yet the target of 85 % of people receive their diagnosis and start treatment within 62 day of an urgent referral have not be meet since December 2015 . in my constituency , one third of case fall short of that target and 1 , 000 family lose a love one every year to this cruel disease . Lord Darzi ' s review lay out very clearly that the UK have appreciably high cancer mortality rate than other country and that more than 30 % of patient be wait long than 31 day for radical radiotherapy . a quarter of England ' s 280 radiotherapy machine be now operate beyond their recommend 10 - year lifespan , and in some area , such as West Sussex , there be no access to radiotherapy at all . that be why we welcome the £ 70 million investment announce in October to start to replace the old radiotherapy machine . will the Minister confirm whether there will be further round of funding to keep pace with available radiotherapy technology ? will he look to support those at the mercy of a postcode lottery by ensure that radiotherapy be available in all area ? what be the expect timeline for reverse the damage do by the previous Government , and when can all patient expect to start their treatment within the 62 - day urgent referral target ? one reason we think a national cancer plan be so important be precisely to get the investment in the area we need so that we can tackle those health inequality . there be very real inequality when it come to the diagnosis of cancer and , more importantly , the treatment and therefore the outcome . I be really keen that we focus on that in the plan , to ensure that all part of the country achieve the good outcome for people who have be diagnose with cancer . part of the plan be the roll - out of community diagnostic centre so that we can get diagnosis much early . that then put great pressure on get people through the front door for treatment , so that be why , as part of the recovery plan that the Prime Minister and the Health Secretary announce , we be seek to get more people treat more quickly on those treatment pathway . hopefully , that will get the desire outcome we want . it be a commitment that we will seek to restore the national health service to its constitutional standard . that be a priority of this Government . on radiotherapy machine , the £ 70 million investment will fund about 25 or so machine . the criterion for evaluate bid be the age of the machine , the proportion of machine age over seven year , and the performance against the 31 - day standard for radiotherapy , with poor performer prioritise . on future round of funding , the cancer plan will feed into spending review and future Budgets . it be our priority to ensure that we reach the cancer target , so hopefully we can make the case to the Treasury for future investment in further year . as someone who lose his wife to cancer , I know the dire circumstance that a cancer diagnosis can bring . it be right that cancer plan should focus on the good outcome : improve the amount of time that people live for , or have a cure . I would like to raise with the Minister the specific issue of pain relief management . as part of the plan , will he ensure that there be an investigation into how pain relief management can be improve for cancer patient , and that it be give not just during the week but at weekend too ? absolutely . my hon . friend raise a really important point about how people receive pain relief and how that be manage . there be some really good example out there of how it be do really well and , shockingly , there be some that be less good . we want to learn from the good . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , it be about take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . absolutely , that should form part of the plan . like many people in this House , I have see up close and personal the devastating impact that a cancer diagnosis can have on people and family . I have also see the difference between an early diagnosis and a later diagnosis , which be why I very much welcome the use of AI in early diagnosis . one positive by - product of have a long - stand national health service be that we have in the UK a very large database of historical tissue sample . will the Minister consider use AI to do a retrospective analysis of those historical tissue sample to try to spot pattern that could inform future speedy diagnosis across a whole range of cancer ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that suggestion and will ask my official to look into it . I be very keen that we maximise the late advance in technology , genomic , life science and research to ensure that we identify people who be at risk of cancer , preferably before they develop cancer , so that we can get they on appropriate treatment where necessary and they avoid the pain and misery that cancer can bring . on this World Cancer Day , will my hon . friend the public health Minister tell I what effort he be make to raise awareness of the sign and symptom of ovarian cancer , such as a bloated tummy , lack of appetite or feel full , tummy pain or need to pee more often , in order to increase lifesave early diagnosis ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for all the work that she have do on ovarian cancer since become an MP . she know — the rest of the House might not — that I lose my mum to ovarian cancer . I be 19 when my mum die and she be only 50 — my age today . she have a late diagnosis . they basically open she up to perform a hysterectomy and the cancer have spread all the way through her body . they sew she back up and she die at the end of a hospital ward two day later in pain and agony . have awareness of those symptom be so important . my mum be fob off by her GP , because she work in a shop and lift box . she have a bad back and be bloated and so on . the GP say it be down to her work , rather than err on the side of caution and get she check out . we must ensure that woman today be hear by GPs and , more importantly , that we err on the side of caution and get people on to treatment . the Minister be absolutely right to focus on this . I warmly welcome the reinstatement of the child and young people ' s cancer taskforce . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my constituent Charlotte Fairall , who be pivotal in the work to bring the taskforce together in the first place . Charlotte ' s daughter Sophie die of rhabdomyosarcoma when she be just 10 year old . I know the Minister meet Charlotte to discuss this issue . unfortunately , Sophie be not alone — around 500 child and young people die of cancer every year in the UK . it be the big cause of death by illness of child under the age of 14 . Sophie have a wish list of thing that she want to achieve before she die , include cook with Gordon Ramsay and wear high - heeled shoe , but she also want to meaningfully change the way we detect , treat and care for child with cancer . do the Minister agree that the taskforce be a great step in that direction ? it absolutely be , and I thank the hon . Lady for agree to co - chair the re - form taskforce . I know that she care passionately about this issue , and it be lovely to meet Charlotte some time before Christmas . Cancer be terrible , and cancer affect child even more so . as the hon . Lady know , we pause the taskforce because the general election get in the way . we want to carry out a real - time stocktake to establish whether we need all these different taskforce , but , along with Charlotte , she convince I , and convince the Secretary of State , that the work of this taskforce will be crucial to inform our national cancer plan , and I wish she all the good in secure the outcome that both she and I want to see . do the Minister agree that the move from analogue to digital will be key to cancer research , especially in the field of rare cancer such as the brain tumour that we have be hear about ? I absolutely do . that shift to analogue to digital , and the use of the late advantage in technology , science and research , will push the boundary of what be possible when it come to diagnose and treat some of the rare cancer , on which we have make virtually zero progress in recent year . I think that , with the right direction , the right commitment and the right drive , we can really start to make inroad in this area . may I invite the Minister , and indeed everyone here , to join we in Room M after these exchange , when Radiotherapy UK will have a drop - in session with — most important — our patron Bryan Robson , England ' s Captain Fantastic ? I thank he for mention radiotherapy in his statement , which be crucial step forward , but may I suggest that he and the Government need to show exponentially great ambition to get this right ? the UK spend 5 % of its cancer budget on radiotherapy , while the OECD average be 9 % , which be why the UK be at the bottom of the survival league for so many cancer . will the Minister commit himself to put that right ? I be not sure that I will be able to attend the hon . Gentleman ' s meeting , but I will certainly be in Westminster Hall for his debate later this afternoon . I understand exactly the concern of people who be champion the need for increase access to radiotherapy treatment . my dad benefit from radiotherapy at the Christie , which probably give he an extra couple of year of life with his family — I will be forever grateful for that . I get it ; I understand it ; we need to make the case . I thank the Minister for his welcome statement , and join he in thank all the organisation that do the vital work of help and support those with cancer and their family . he be right to talk about health inequality , which , as he will know , continue to worsen in constituency such as mine , where , on average , people live 10 year less than other in more affluent area ; and last year more than 13 , 000 be wait for diagnostic test . will he join I in commend the work of Eccleshill community diagnostic centre in Bradford — essential , and the first of its kind — which be speed up the detection of life - threaten condition such as cancer , and will he assure I that , as part of his national action plan , more support will be give to place such as Bradford and the Eccleshill community diagnostic centre , so that no one be leave behind when it come to their treatment ? as my hon . Friend say , tackle health inequality be a key priority for this Government , in relation to our health mission but also more generally , when it come to some of the big condition such as cancer . in area such as his and mine , the prevalence of cancer be great , because of the industrial legacy , and also because the prevalence of smoking be still much high than the national average . I commend the work of his local diagnostic team , and we need much more of that good practice to be spread across the area that need it the most . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . he will be aware that a routine prostate cancer screening programme would save many life . can he give any indication of when it will be introduce ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that question , and also for the write parliamentary question about prostate cancer that he and a number of other member have table . accord to the current guidance , screen for prostate cancer be not recommend in the UK because of the inaccuracy of the current good test for prostate - specific antigen . indeed , it could actually harm man , as some might be diagnose with a cancer that would not have cause they problem during their life . however , I be look at this carefully , and I know that further information have go to the National Institute for Health and Care Research so that it can , perhaps , reach a different conclusion . obviously , as technology and other mechanism advance , this may well be an area where we can make inroad , but I be happy to work with the hon . gentleman to ensure that every opportunity be meet . I welcome this plan . I note that it be a recommendation from the Health and Social Care Committee in the last Parliament , and , as a member of that Committee , I hope that it set a precedent . two week ago I lose my brother , Alex English , to high - grade acinic cell carcinoma . while I pay tribute to all those who give he care , can the Minister confirm that we will look at rare cancer and make sure that we research some of they and find treatment ? first , may I send my condolence to my hon . friend and his family on the loss of his brother Alex ? of course rare cancer be important , and they be a crucial part of what will be in the national cancer plan . it be in these area that we must focus our effort on diagnosis , treatment and , more importantly , get the research do , so that we can find way of tackle some of the very rare but deadly cancer that affect many family , include my hon . friend ' s . in 2013 , the number of breast cancer case in woman under 50 top 10 , 000 for the first time , but routine breast cancer screening be give only to woman age 40 and over . will the Department review that and ensure that , when appropriate , initial appointment can be give to young woman ? while I be at it , although the Minister might not have time to attend , may I invite everyone else to swing by my drop - in event this afternoon to discuss local health inequality in breast cancer ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the work that she do in this regard . the decision on whom to screen be make by the UK national screening committee and their advice come to Ministers , but I be aware of the case that she have make . screen woman early for breast cancer should perhaps be look at , and I will ensure that my official look into whether we can make some progress on that for she . rise — Order . I know that some of these contribution be quite emotional , and if people need to leave the Chamber after they have speak , that be okay by I . Ethan be just 15 and study for his gcse when he be diagnose with a brain tumour . sadly , he pass away two year later . I have the privilege of meet his mum , Nikki , this weekend at two event organise to raise money for brain tumour research . in Ethan ' s memory , will the Minister commit himself to improve outcome for people with brain tumour through the national cancer plan ? through my hon . friend , I would like to pass my condolence on to Nikki for the loss of Ethan . as I have say , we have not make anything like the progress we would want to make on treatment and survival rate for brain tumour . that will form an integral part of our national cancer plan , and we will utilise all the late advance in technology and science to try to get the well outcome that we so desperately want . I genuinely welcome the Minister ' s commitment to the upgrading of radiotherapy machine , but I share the concern of the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on radiotherapy , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , about the scale of the ambition . in defeat this horrible disease , technology and innovation be our friend . what be the Minister ' s ambition for minimally invasive cancer therapy in the national cancer plan ? these technology be come along every day , but awareness of they and the ability to get they roll out on the frontline be slapdash at well . will he commit to look at those emerge therapy and get they roll out as soon as possible ? absolutely . thing be advance so quickly in technology and innovation . it be quite remarkable that science fiction be become science fact . we be obviously interested in minimally invasive therapy , and they will form part of the plan . that be why we be consult . that be the purpose of this exercise : so that we can look at what technology be here today , what the emerge technology be and how they will shift the dial on some cancer . the House will know that my family , like many other in Newcastle - under - Lyme , have be impact by cancer in recent time , so I thank the Minister for his statement and his personal commitment to get this right . on World Cancer Day , I join he in pay tribute to the charity he mention in his statement , and particularly my constituent Mary and Colin , who raise so much money every year for Macmillan . health inequality in some of our poor community and our ethnic minority community play a big role in cancer be diagnose . can the Minister tell I and my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme how we will tackle those health inequality alongside this national cancer plan ? my hon . friend make a very good point , and it relate to not just cancer but a whole range of condition , include cardiovascular disease , stroke and so many other — it be the same area that have the bad outcome , because there be endemic health inequality that we have not shift the dial on for decade . life expectancy be much low , and healthy life expectancy be much bad , than in less deprive area . it be part of our health mission to drive forward well health outcome for people live in the poor area , and our national cancer plan will be a key part of that . in his remark yesterday , the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , imply that he be discuss the future with AstraZeneca , which have have some bad news this week . AstraZeneca make immunotherapy , among other thing , and therefore be very important in allow people to live well for long . what discussion will the Minister be have as part of his plan with the pharmaceutical sector , since plainly the national health service can not do this alone ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point . I have certainly have a number of roundtable with the pharmaceutical sector in the UK about how we can support it , how we can grow our life science sector and how Britain can be at the cutting edge of new treatment and clinical trial . indeed , we have a Delegated Legislation Committee yesterday on regulation to make it easy to carry out clinical trial in this country . some of the late advance in pharma be quite remarkable ; I think particularly of the work be do on mrna technology to look at have specific cancer treatment pertinent to a person ' s genomic — it could be a game changer . Hyndburn be home to the incredible woman Lorraine Hargreaves . she establish the charity milly ' s Smiles after her daughter milly die of leukaemia , and each year she support thousand of family whose child have cancer . can the Minister reassure she that this plan will also improve outcome for child ? I know that Lorraine will welcome the announcement on the re - establishment of the taskforce , but would the Minister consider meet she to discuss the lack of support and grief group for family who go through the unimaginable tragedy of lose a child to cancer ? I can not even begin to think what it would be like to lose a child full stop , but to lose they to cancer would be horrific for their parent . I pay tribute to Lorraine for all the campaigning she have do on this . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend and Lorraine to talk about this , but the whole reason for put the taskforce back on an operational footing be so that we can make the change that she and Lorraine want to see . member across the House will be all too familiar with constituent reach out to let they know that safe , effective new medicine be not approve by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence . the Minister speak of research and the need for access . will he commit to be a critical friend of NICE , to ensure both good value for the taxpayer and good access for patient ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . NICE be there for a particular reason : to ensure that the drug be develop be available on the nhs when they meet the require threshold . of course , we want to ensure that as new treatment become available , they be available for british patient . the work that be be do with Moderna and other pharmaceutical company will ensure that british patient have access to some of the late treatment as they come through the pipeline . one of my early memory be be in a hospital room as my grandfather be die of cancer . ten day ago , I be in the same hospital as my father die with the same cancer — 50 year in between , almost to the week , but no significant change in prognosis . can the Minister assure I that what be term the less survivable cancer , which be not necessarily rare cancer , be include as part of this work ? my heart go out to my hon . friend . I lose both my parent to cancer , and it do not matter when it happen in your life ; it be just heartbreaking . as the child of those parent , you never get over it . of course , we will have a concerted effort on less survivable cancer . in part , they be less survivable because the research have not be do , or not to the extent that we can develop well treatment for they . that be where we really have to shift the dial in the next decade . we have to make sure that people who have a cancer diagnosis have the good opportunity to live a long and fulfil life after cancer . I declare an interest , in that I have now be smoke - free for 34 day use the NHS Quit Smoking app , even though my waistline and the Government have test my resolve in recent week . eighteen month ago we lose my office manager , Susan Hall , to lymphoma . the Minister will know that parliamentary employee be not just employee ; they be part of our family . part of her treatment be community care provide by an excellent hospice in my constituency call Mountbatten hospice . this be not mean to be a political point , but what progress have be make on look at a fairer , Government - lead mechanism to fund our hospice across the United Kingdom on an even footing and with more money ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on be smoke - free . hopefully , he be the first of many as we move towards a smoke - free UK by 2030 . he make a real and serious point about not just community care — one of the big shift in the health mission be from hospital to community — but how we approach the hospice sector . last weekend I be at my local hospice , Willow Wood in Ashton - under - Lyne , where staff make exactly the same point . that will be feed into the national cancer plan . I thank the Minister for his statement , and particularly for his deep understanding of woman ' s health issue and the difficulty that many woman face in get their gp to understand what they be go through . the Women and Equalities Committee have spend some time look at that this year . the George Eliot hospital in my constituency serve many of my constituent , who often complain about the length of time it take to get scan result . between June 2023 and 2024 , almost 12 % of people wait more than 28 day to receive MRI result , compare with 6 . 5 % nationally . I know that the team there be work very hard to bring the time down , but can the Minister reassure my constituent that the use of AI will speed up the time it take for they to get their scan result and the treatment they need ? my hon . friend make some really important point . the need to get people scan more quickly , and to get result to consultant , be in part why we now have extra capacity through community diagnostic centre , where there be extra facility for scan . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of where AI and emerge technology may take we , which will almost certainly lead to fast identification of cancer . I thank the Minister for make his statement on World Cancer Day , and I do not doubt his sincerity on this issue . on 22 March 2022 , the then Northern Ireland Health Minister launch a 10 - year cancer strategy and funding plan . it be co - design , co - produce and co - chair by Professor Charlotte McArdle , the then chief nursing officer , and Ivan McMinn , the then chair of Cancer Focus NI . the strategy look to adopt a regional approach , to create smoother pathway and to adopt successful innovation . it have 58 action point and be cost at £ 145 million per year for 10 year , but it have not really make any progress since the fall of the Northern Ireland Executive . the Minister have say that he be develop a national cancer plan . will he meet I and the current Northern Ireland Health Minister to ensure that the work that be develop be not lose but be build into what can be a truly successful national cancer plan if we do it right ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the work that he do in this area in a previous guise . I be more than happy to meet he and Mike Nesbitt , with whom I have a meeting on drug strategy and drug as a public health issue before this statement , to drive forward how we can improve outcome in Northern Ireland and get that plan work again , as it should never have stall . People talk about the politic of hope and , goodness I , this statement can give the country some hope that cancer survival rate will be drive up . however , the Shrewsbury and Telford hospital NHS trust have remain challenge over the last 14 year . will my hon . friend the Minister confirm that the area that be most challenge will be give support to catch up and push on ? my hon . friend make a really important point , which be not lose on those of we on the Government Front Bench . there be real challenge across the healthcare system , and some of the area with some of the bad outcome also happen to have some of the bad health inequality . those issue be exacerbate by the pressure on the healthcare system . he can have my reassurance that the Government will make it a priority to drive down health inequality and ensure that healthcare system get the support they need . I hope the Minister will join I in thank the team at Dorset cancer centre in Poole , who enable my step - mum , Sally Walls , to ring the bell this morning follow the end of her radiotherapy treatment . her treatment have be exceptional and swift , but the situation be inconsistent . Nikki from Horton be tell that she need a two - week appointment for gynaecological problem . when she call , she be tell that it would be six week . she could not bear to wait , so she borrow £ 650 to find out that she be all clear . can the Minister offer reassurance that he will end the postcode lottery ? I congratulate the hon . Lady ' s step - mum on ring that bell , which be great news . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise the issue of inconsistency when it come to the level of service that different patient get . that will obviously be a major factor in the national cancer plan go forward , to ensure that all people diagnose with cancer have the same level of treatment and the same opportunity to survive . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement . he will know as well as anybody else in this Chamber that smoking cause one in four cancer in this country , and that two out of three people who smoke will die as a result . he be assiduously move the Tobacco and Vapes Bill through Parliament . can he set out the likely effect that the Bill will have on those shocking statistic ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for be a member of the Committee for that Bill , which end its business last Thursday . the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , and for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench , be also member of that Committee . my hon . friend be absolutely right , because the Bill will stop the conveyor belt that the tobacco industry have use to its advantage for decade . we be say that we will not allow any more child and young people to become addicted to nicotine and tobacco , which , as he say , kill two out of every three user . it be uniquely the most harmful product , and we be make the next generation smoke - free for a reason . one of my constituent wait two year from the onset of severe symptom to receive a cancer diagnosis , and another 10 week to have the type of cancer identify , at which point it be incurable . one of the key failing in this case seem to be the disconnect between she report the symptom to her gp and get the right referral to the hospital , despite she have a previous history of breast cancer . what promise can the Minister make on improve the co - ordination between different part of the NHS to make sure that people like my constituent do not fall through the crack in the future ? that kind of experience be unacceptable , and the purpose of our plan be to demand well of the NHS and the system more widely when it come to cancer outcome . nobody should have the kind of experience that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have , which be why we will drive well outcome through well treatment and early diagnosis , and make sure that the whole NHS be join up in the process — a key part of the national cancer plan . give that today be World Cancer Day , this statement be extremely welcome . half of all leukaemia patient will not survive beyond five year , and the outlook be even bleaker for those diagnose with acute myeloid leukaemia . if no action be take , 80 % of those diagnose with AML today will not survive this Parliament . early diagnosis and great research be key to improve people ' s chance . will the Minister consider introduce measure to ensure that they be include in the national cancer plan ? my hon . friend have my assurance on all front there . early diagnosis , more and well research , and identify how we improve outcome for people with a variety of cancer be all crucial . his point about leukaemia be well rehearse in the Department and will be a key part of the national cancer plan . some 3 . 4 million people in England live far than 45 minute away from a radiotherapy centre . we all want to see that change , but one of the challenge will be the fact that eight out of 10 radiotherapist have consider leave the profession . could the Minister outline what work the Government be do to retain and recruit the radiotherapist that we need ? the hon . Member make a reasonable point , and part of the reason that we be have a refresh workforce plan alongside the 10 - year NHS plan be precisely to address some of the concern that he have raise . we need to make sure that we have the right workforce in the right place , and to future - proof it for the kind of treatment that will come on stream in the come decade . I thank the Minister for his statement and also for the time he have spend with I discuss my private Member ' s Bill , the Rare Cancers Bill . yesterday , I meet representative of the Brain Tumour Charity , Brain Tumour Research and Pancreatic Cancer UK , and we do in part discuss the national cancer plan . I do not speak on those charity ' behalf , but one of the conclusion I draw from the discussion be that there be a real need to have the voice of rare cancer patient and survivor at the heart of this consultation . do the Minister agree with that point ? secondly , on World Cancer Day , will he join I in wish my daughter Ruth good luck as she train to run a marathon in aid of the Brain Tumour Charity ? good luck , Ruth ! I hope she succeed and raise lot of money for such a good cause . I want to thank my hon . friend as well for his crucial work in this area . he have my assurance that at the heart of the first step , which be the call for evidence I have announce today , and of the development of the national cancer plan , those with live experience — patient or love one of people who have have cancer and those who have either survive or be now bereaved — absolutely have to be at the heart of what we be do . we will take their view , their opinion and their thought fully on board as we develop this plan . I lose my father to lymphoma and my wife be an ovarian cancer survivor , so I warmly welcome this statement . in Gloucestershire , we be a designate regional cancer centre , but unfortunately the building at Cheltenham general be just not up to scratch any more . fundraising be mention early by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , and we be in that situation . we need £ 17 . 5 million and we have £ 9 million to go . will the Minister warmly congratulate the Big Space Cancer Appeal fundraiser , particularly Dr Charles Candish and Dr Sam Guglani , who be lead the charge on that ? would he like to meet those consultant to discuss how we might move this fundraising effort along so that the whole project do not rest on the back of charity ? I be more than happy to meet the hon . Member and the team to look at precisely those point and I wish they all the very good in their fundraising effort , but look , as a country we be well than this . I want to see the national cancer plan really start to address how we can get that research , that treatment , those diagnosis and those well outcome for people with the NHS at the heart of it , do what the NHS do well and ensure that we get those outcome from publicly fund improvement . I welcome all the effort this Government be make to improve cancer service . early diagnosis be just as important as prevention , but we all know that patient be currently wait several month for scan procedure . a recent visit to the GP surgery in my constituency show that they have spare capacity for scan , but it be not actively offer to patient at the moment . this be due to a lack of collaborative working and communication in the health system , so will the Minister tell the House how we can improve the exist system so that they work effectively and people can get timely procedure ? part of our recovery plan be to ensure that we return the national health service to constitutional standard , not just in respect of cancer but across the board . we inherit a broken national health service and it be incumbent on this government to fix it and make it fit for the future . clearly , in area such as my hon . friend ' s , the NHS need to be do much well when it come to cancer outcome and cancer treatment , and this plan and this Government will ensure that his local system get all the support it need . I declare an interest , as I have a family member who have share in a medical company . I pay tribute to the Minister for follow through with his promise for a national cancer plan . it be clearly very important to he , and it be to I as well . Shaun Walsh of Cancer Research UK first raise with I the need for a dedicated cancer plan , and it have be an important part of my work in Parliament since then . will the Minister meet I and Shaun to discuss the next step for the national cancer plan ? I be more than happy to do so . my diary secretary , who will be watch this from the Department of Health , be probably have kitten at the amount of meeting . I meet Shaun and the cancer charity frequently anyway , and as I say at the start of the statement , I commend the work that they do in this area . this national cancer plan be important to I , to the Secretary of State , to the Prime Minister and to the sector , and that be why we be do the right thing and have a plan . I welcome today ' s statement and I know that my wife , Julia , who be a consultant radiographer in mammography at King ' s Mill hospital , will also welcome it . one of my early childhood memory be of watch my grandfather , William Yemm , die of lung cancer . William be a lifelong coalminer at Blidworth colliery . I think he drink and smoke rather more than be good for he throughout his life , so do the Minister agree that prevention be every bit as important as diagnosis , treatment and research in the fight against cancer ? can he reassure I that this welcome national cancer plan will consider what action we can take to prevent people from develop cancer ? my hon . friend raise such an important point . this government have three shift and I have mention two of they already : the shift from hospital to community and from analogue to digital . the third shift be from sickness to prevention . we absolutely have to shift the dial , whether it be on alcohol harm , smoking , obesity , inactivity or the air we breathe . these be the five - point plan priority when it come to prevention . my hon . friend be so right to focus on this , and we hope to cut the instance of a whole range of preventable illness , include cancer . many of my constituent have to travel to England to access cancer treatment . this present many problem , one of which be a lack of datum sharing between NHS England and NHS Wales . will the Minister assure Welsh patient that if they be treat in an english hospital , their datum will follow they home and that it will be accessible to NHS Wales ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . I also have regular meeting with ministerial colleague in the Welsh Government , and this be an area of interest to both government . we need to make sure there be well sharing of datum and information for patient from Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland when access NHS service in England , so that there be join - up , smart use of the datum hold on patient by our respective NHS system in order to get well outcome . I assure the hon . Gentleman that I be already take this up with ministerial colleague across the devolved administration . I thank the Minister for his statement . since my election , I have meet a wide range of cancer charity , especially those represent rare and less common cancer . as the Minister know , 55 % of UK cancer death be a result of those type of cancer , such as blood , ovarian and kidney cancer . will he ensure that rare and less common cancer be not forget in the national cancer plan ? my hon . friend have my full assurance that all cancer — all tumour type — will be an integral part of the national cancer plan . on rare cancer , it be important that we use the call for evidence and the discussion we will have in the come week and month to ensure that those voice be hear as we drive forward our plan . I thank the Minister for his statement . his word always display the compassion and comfort that these type of statement should convey . do the Minister agree that it be time for the Government to do more to fund cancer research , rather than leave charity to bear the burden ? Cancer Research UK alone have invest more than £ 4 billion in research over the last 10 year . will this plan ensure that groundbreake research , such as that carry out at queen ' s University Belfast , will have enhance funding for a world - class breakthrough in find a cure for cancer ? will Northern Ireland be one of the UK ' s 30 testing site for woman ? I thank my hon . friend . I always call he my hon . friend because I see more of he than I see of my wife . [ laughter . ] usually because we be in the same debate . the hon . Member make an important point about research , which will be a crucial aspect of the national cancer plan . advance in technology , science and pharmaceutical do not happen by accident ; they happen because we fund the research to get to that point . we need to do much well in research some of the rarer and less survivable cancer . those scientist and charity must have access to the fund that be available so they can carry out the research we need . as for where the 30 site will be , that be above my pay grade . there be criterion , but I will take it back to my official and see what we can do . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I thank every Member on both side of the Chamber who have share their personal story . I be nine year old when I lose my grandmother , Grace , to cancer . that be a long time ago , but it still have a profound effect on I . do the Minister agree that early detection be vital for survival rate ? in particular , I emphasise the point about the importance of ensure that woman be take seriously when they visit their gp . I thank my constituent Sir Rod Stewart for the support he give to the radiography department at Princess Alexandra hospital . do the Minister agree that this national cancer plan will mean that we do not have to rely on the good will of rock legend such as Rod Stewart to support everyone in our society ? talk about name - dropping ; if only I have such famous constituent . Burnage be once home to the Gallagher brother , and Denton be home to Mick Hucknall — I do not think any of they live there any more . my hon . friend make an important point that woman , in particular , have to be take seriously by their gps . the symptom of some of these cancer could indicate a multitude of different thing but , know from my mum ' s bitter experience , I would soon that GPs err on the side of caution and get people diagnose . if the diagnosis turn out not to be cancer , what a wonderful result that be . if it be cancer , we can get they on the treatment pathway soon rather than later . I also commend the Minister for his great announcement , which be welcome and need . the Minister have often speak about the importance of shift from sickness to prevention , from hospital to community , and from analogue to digital . resident of Southend East and Rochford deserve an NHS that be there when they need it . what impact do he think the plan will have on the issue he have outline today ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and it be a good one on which to end . each of those three shift — from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention — could be take in isolation . however , by put they together , we can shift how we deliver health and care in this country . we will make it fit for purpose , we will drive up standard across the system , we will get the NHS back to constitutional standard — which mean low waiting time , short waiting list and well outcome — and , when it come to cancer , we will save life . it be as simple as that . Bill present Statutory Adoption Pay ( report on Extension to the Self - Employed ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Lisa Smart present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of extend eligibility for statutory adoption pay to person who be self - employ or contractor ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March , and to be print ( Bill 175 ) . Road Traffic ( unlicensed Drivers ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide that an unlicensed driver who have never hold a valid drive licence and who cause the death of another person by drive commit the offence of careless drive under section 3 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 ; and for connected purpose . I thank member for be present as I introduce the Harry Parker Bill . before I speak to the aim of the Bill , I will give some context . this be not just a policy matter ; it be about justice , accountability and prevent future tragedy . who be Harry ? what happen to he ? and how can we change the law to prevent anyone from go through what his parent Adam and Kelly , who be sit in the Gallery , have go through ? Harry be a 14 - year - old boy . he love football , take home a trophy or two in his time . those who know he say he be a very popular and charming young man . to his parent , he be their world . Adam say : " he have the big heart and love to make people laugh . he could light up the room with just his presence . " however , on 25 November 2022 , the unspeakable happen — an event that truly rock our community . Harry be strike by a car outside his school , which sadly result in his death . this , in itself , be a tragedy . Harry be a young , 14 - year - old boy with his whole life ahead of he . I ask the House to join I in express our deep condolence to the family , and to recognise they and their remarkable strength in face this unimaginable loss . lose Harry be tragic enough , but what follow make it even bad . the person who strike Harry be drive without a licence and without insurance and fail to stop at the scene . give the circumstance , one might assume that justice would be serve and that the individual would face serious criminal charge , yet in November 2024 , all charge be drop . let I be absolutely clear : this be not an attack on the Crown Prosecution Service or the police . they follow the law as it stand , but that be precisely the problem . the law in its current form be fail . we must ask ourselves how it can be that a person can drive illegally and take a life , yet face no legal consequence . how can it be that knowingly operate a vehicle without a licence be not automatically deem careless or dangerous driving ? the answer be simple : our system be flawed . a person who do not hold a valid licence have no business be behind the wheel of a car , and when they be , they put life at risk . I can not bring Harry back , nor can I give Adam and Kelly the justice they deserve . no legislation , no speech and no court ruling will ever ease their pain . what we can do — what we must do — be ensure that no other family have to endure what they have be through . the Harry Parker Bill seek to close the dangerous gap in our legal system and impose real - world consequence on those who choose to drive without a licence ; under the Bill , those who drive without a valid licence be deem careless . I urge the House to join I in honour Harry ' s memory not just with word , but with action . let we commit to make our road safe for all . I urge the Government to consider this Bill in their road safety strategy . question put and agree to . order , that Will Stone , Mr Bayo Alaba , Dan Aldridge , Alex McIntyre , Luke Myer , Chris Vince , Alex Ballinger , Tom Hayes , Henry Tufnell , Dr Roz Savage , Deidre Costigan and Frank McNally present the Bill . will Stone accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 174 ) . business of the House Ordered , that , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on — ( a ) the Motions ( i ) in the name of Sir Stephen Timms relate to the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 , and ( ii ) in the name of torsten Bell relate to the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 , not later than three hour after the start of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; and ( b ) the Motions ( i ) in the name of James Murray relate to the draft Social Security ( Contributions ) ( rate , Limits and Thresholds Amendments , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veteran ' s Relief ) Regulations 2025 , and ( ii ) in the name of Darren Jones relate to the draft Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate order 2025 , not later than three hour after the start of proceeding on the first such motion ; proceeding may continue , though oppose , until any hour , and may be enter upon after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Keir Mather . ) Social Security benefit I beg to move , that the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow motion : that the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 January , be approve . in my view , the instrument be compatible with the european convention on human right . the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 will increase relevant state pension rate by 4 . 1 % , in line with the growth in average earning in the year to May to July 2024 . it will increase most other benefit rate by 1 . 7 % , in line with the rise in the consumer price index in the year to September 2024 . the Government ' s commitment to the triple lock mean that the basic and full rate of the new state pension will be uprate by whichever be high out of the growth in earning , the growth in price , or 2 . 5 % . that will mean 4 . 1 % for 2025 - 26 . from April this year , the basic state pension will increase from £ 169 . 50 per week to £ 176 . 45 , and the full rate of the new state pension will increase from £ 221 . 20 to £ 230 . 25 . we be fully commit to maintain the pension triple lock . there be some confusion about the position of the conservative party , and I hope that the shadow Minister will clarify the position when he speak . on clarification , can the Minister clarify for how much long the state pension will be tax ? the Conservative Government stand for election on a commitment to the triple lock plus . we lose the election , but we be go to take out that fiscal drag . can the Minister explain how long that tax will stay in place ? my understanding , from what the Leader of the Opposition have say , be that the conservative party be no long commit to the triple lock , let alone the triple lock plus . I can tell the hon . member that we do not have any plan to do what he suggest . I believe that under the Budget , the Government be not look to review the position until 2028 , so those on the state pension have to submit a tax return , because the state pension be be tax . it be what you do . agree . that be bring in by a previous Government , and we in the conservative party campaign to remove it . can the Minister confirm that the situation will remain in place until 2028 ? I simply point out to the hon . Gentleman that his party appear to no long be commit to the triple lock . we look forward to clarification on that point from the shadow Minister . other component of state pension award , such as those previously build up under earning - relate state pension scheme , include the additional state pension , will increase by 1 . 7 % in line with price . the Government be commit to support pensioner on the low income , so the safety net provide by the pension credit standard minimum guarantee will increase by 4 . 1 % . for single pensioner , that mean an increase from £ 218 . 15 to £ 227 . 10 per week ; for couple , the increase be from £ 332 . 95 to £ 346 . 60 per week . we want everybody entitle to that support to receive it , which be why we launch the national pension credit campaign . we receive around 150 , 000 pension credit application in the 16 week after the winter fuel payment announcement . will the Minister give way ? I will give way one more time to the hon . Gentleman . I be very grateful . we do indeed want more people to take up pension credit . however , one of the big problem be the processing time . the response to a write question that I table before Christmas show that there be a 75 % success rate in get that do within 50 day , which mean that that do not happen for one in four . I later re - table the same question , and it turn out that the standard have get bad . what work be the Government do to make sure that application be process within 50 day ? especially when it be cold and people have have their winter fuel payment take away , it be important that those who need that support get it as soon as they can . the hon . Gentleman be quite right ; it be important that application be process speedily , and I be pleased with the number of application . I can confirm — I think he know this — that everybody who apply before 21 December will receive , if they be successful , their winter fuel payment . we have also move extra staff on to pension credit processing . however , the hon . Gentleman be quite right to raise that point . universal credit and the legacy mean - test benefit that it replace provide support for people of work age . we have commit in our manifesto to review universal credit , so that it make work pay and tackle poverty , and we will set out shortly how we plan to fulfil that commitment . for those below state pension age , the order increase the personal and standard allowance of working - age benefit , include universal credit , by 1 . 7 % , in line with the increase in price in the year to September 2024 . in the Budget last November , the Chancellor announce that the maximum repayment deduction from universal credit payment will be reduce from April , from 25 % of the universal credit standard allowance to 15 % — the fair repayment rate — and 1 . 2 million household be expect to benefit from that change by an average of £ 420 per year . in addition , the order increase statutory payment by 1 . 7 % . that include statutory maternity pay , statutory paternity pay , statutory share parental pay and statutory sick pay . benefit for those who have additional cost as a result of disability or health impairment will also increase by 1 . 7 % . that include disability living allowance , attendance allowance and personal independence payment . the order will also increase carer ' s allowance by 1 . 7 % . the Chancellor announce in the Budget that , from April , the weekly carer ' s allowance earning threshold will be peg to the level of 16 hour ' work at the national living wage . that mean that , from April , unpaid carer will be able to earn up to £ 196 per week net earning and still receive carer ' s allowance , compare with £ 151 now . I be pleased to say that that move have be very widely welcome , and we expect it to bring an additional 60 , 000 unpaid carer into eligibility for the benefit , and , crucially , to reduce the likelihood that carer who manage to combine some work with their care responsibility will inadvertently fall foul of the earning limit , because , in future , that threshold will keep up with change in the national living wage . on disability and carer ' s benefit , we will continue to ensure that carer , and people who face additional cost because of disability or health impairment , get the support that they need , and we will set out proposal for reform of health and disability benefit in a Green Paper in the spring . in my constituency of Horsham , food bank usage increase by 25 % last year , and it have increase by 700 % over six year . in the light of that evidence of the pressure , will the Government consider put a minimum level on universal credit ? I have see representation along those line . it be not something that we be consider at the moment , but we be , as I have mention , commit to review universal credit , and we will do so over the course of this year . I imagine that we will be look at a very wide variety of representation , and the hon . Gentleman and other will be very welcome to make submission to we along those line . lastly , let I say a word about the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 . before the Minister get on to the pension issue , may I just say that the order require the Secretary of State to examine the effect of benefit uprating and the effect of the exist payment of benefit ? what study have he do on the effect of the two - child benefit cap ? secondly , last week we pass a welfare spending cap — a cap that , obviously , could be breach in the future . will the Government revisit the whole idea of the welfare cap , with a view to abolish it , so that we ensure that the motive force in decide on benefit be the level of need , rather than an arbitrary figure decide by the Treasury ? on the two - child limit , as the right hon . member know , we very quickly set up after the general election the child poverty taskforce , which be look in a very ambitious way at the whole range of lever that the Government have at their disposal for tackle the problem of child poverty . we would very much like to repeat the success of the last Labour Government in reduce child poverty so dramatically in when in office . I say that with particularly strong feeling , have take the Child Poverty Act 2010 through the House towards the end of that Government ' s term . under consideration certainly will be social security change — we will look at what change might be appropriate . we be not able to say whether the two - child limit will be remove , but all those thing will be consider carefully during production of the report , which the taskforce will bring forward . we be not look , I do not think , at change the arrangement around the overall welfare cap . of course , there be always some confusion between the individual benefit cap and the overall welfare cap . as the right hon . Member say , there be a debate last week on the overall cap . there be certainly scope for debate about that and , indeed , the benefit cap as well , but we be not propose any change to those arrangement in the short term . the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order set out the yearly amount by which the GMP part of an individual ' s contract - out occupational pension earn between April 1988 and April 1997 must be increase if it be in payment . the increase pay by occupational pension scheme help to provide a measure of inflation protection to people who be in receipt of GMPs earn between those two year . legislation require that gmp earn between those two date must be increase by the percentage increase in the general level of price , as measure the previous September , cap at 3 % . this year , it mean that the order will increase the relevant part of the GMP by the September 2024 consumer price index figure , which be 1 . 7 % . the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order , if Parliament approve it this afternoon , commit the Government to increase expenditure of £ 6 . 9 billion in 2025 - 26 . the change will mainly come into effect from 7 April and will apply for the tax year 2025 - 26 . the order maintain the triple lock , benefiting pensioner who be in receipt of the basic and new state pension ; raise the level of the safety net in pension credit beyond the increase in price ; increase the rate of benefit for people in the labour market ; and increase the rate of carer ' s benefit and support to help with additional cost arise from disability or health impairment . the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order require formerly contract - out occupational pension scheme to pay an increase of 1 . 7 % on gmp in payment earn between April 1988 and April 1997 , provide people with a measure of protection against inflation , pay for by their scheme . I commend to the House the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 and the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 . I call the shadow Minister . let I state at the outset that the opposition support the measure to uprate pension in line with earning and benefit in line with inflation . I be honour , personally , to take part in this important annual ritual , which be never well attend but be always a high - quality debate . the traditional star of this debate be , of course , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , who this year have descend from the cloud of the Work and Pensions Committee to the sweaty arena of ministerial office . no one be more qualified than he to take the office that he now have . no one have more genuine expertise and compassion for the people that we all want to support than he , so I be very pleased that he be in this role . I just note in pass how much the House miss the expertise of depart member . Paul Maynard , David Linden and Nigel Mills all use to take part in this debate to great value . I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who be take up his position as a new star of this annual debate . despite the formality , it be an important debate , because it be an opportunity for we to take stock of the welfare and pension system as a whole . as pension and the triple lock be mention , I be happy to provide some clarification for the right hon . Gentleman . I think he have misunderstood , or our leader ' s position have be misquote , because we be not look at cancel the triple lock . it be his colleague , the new Pensions Minister , who have be very clearly quote say that the triple lock be a silly system and indefensible . I look forward to further clarification from Government Members . as I understand it , the shadow Chancellor say that the triple lock be unsustainable . do you agree with he on that point ? clearly , there be question about the long - term sustainability of our pension system and our national insurance fund , but I think the shadow Chancellor be talk about the very long term , rather than the immediate situation that we be in . there be no intention , on the conservative Benches anyway , to review the triple lock at this stage . to clarify the position far , what happen be that the leader of the hon . Gentleman ' s party be ask on LBC whether she would look at the triple lock , and her reply be , " we ' re go to look at mean testing . mean testing be something which we don ' t do properly here . " what do she mean by that ? my right hon . friend reply , " no " , to the interviewer . we be not look at means - test the triple lock . she be talk more generally about the challenge of means - testing in our social security system , which be a legitimate question for we all to consider , as I shall go on to discuss . I do not want to get too partisan in this debate , but — [ interruption . ] here we go ! no , I win ' t , genuinely , because the challenge of our welfare system be a shared problem that we face across the House . I will note in pass that our party ' s record on welfare be a good one . we introduce universal credit , rationalise the spaghetti web of benefit that we inherit from the right hon . Gentleman when he be last in office . we make work pay and help people off welfare and into work , and we succeed in that , with 4 million more people in employment in 2024 than in 2010 . let I point out that we have another mess to sort out in the public finance . when we take office , the Government be run a deficit of 9 % and the Treasury be spend way more than it be earn . by the time the pandemic strike , the deficit be down to less than 1 % . we be live within our mean and be able to afford the generous uplift make to benefit and pension in the last Parliament , as well as the huge package of support that we provide during the pandemic . I want to be fair and admit that , as the Minister suggest , the welfare system be not work properly at the moment . too many people be be consign to a life of inactivity and dependency , especially via the category of sickness benefit . it be bad for those people , their community and the country as a whole , include the taxpayer , who spend £ 65 billion a year on incapacity and disability benefit , rise to £ 100 billion a year unless reform be make by the end of this Parliament . so what be go on ? those terrible figure reflect the fact that we have bad rate of physical ill health , include obesity and , as be strongly evidence in the statistic , bad back because we simply do not move around enough in the day . the figure also reflect a rise in mental ill health , which we see in alarming rate in school and among young people . we have to do more on those issue through all sort of intervention that lie more with the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care than with the Department for Work and Pensions . however , as the Lords Economic Affairs Committee report last week , the rise in welfare claim can not be attribute to worsen health or long nhs waiting list ; the problem be grow far fast than that . perhaps the problem be low wage that do not attract people into employment , and that be certainly a reality . low wage have drive demand for the immigration that we have see get so out of control in recent year . profound change be under way in the world of work , away from secure employment towards a more precarious job market . Labour be destroy job , tax employment and discourage new hire with its new Employment Rights Bill . however , the fact be that wage have rise sharply above inflation in recent year , which be why pension be go up by earning this year . employer be offer good wage but be not fill vacancy . the issue be not health , although we have problem in health ; the issue be not work , although we have big problem there — the issue be welfare . People be not be incentivise to take job because the offer from the welfare system be well . when I say welfare , I do not mean unemployment support . thank to universal credit and the last Government ' s reform , we see record number of people move off unemployment benefit and into work . that be because we offer support to people to find work and impose strict condition that mean people have to actively look for a job . if they do not , they lose the benefit . that work for a lot of people , but we find — here be the issue — that for a lot of other people , the incentive make they go the other way , far away from work into the sickness category , because that be where the good money be . in some case , the money be double what they can get on unemployment benefit , and sometimes £ 3 , 000 more than the minimum wage . People almost certainly get it because the approval rate be high at over 90 % for the limited capacity for work category . this be big and unconditional money . there be no expectation to do anything about the health condition that mean someone be sign off sick . there be no expectation of be reassess any time soon or , indeed , ever . that be the challenge , and I hope the Government will rise to it in the same way that we rise to the crisis in unemployment benefit in the last decade . one of the way the last Government help to deal with this issue be by deal with the taper . it be at 63 % and it go down to 55 % , so people who be work get more of their own money back . do my hon . friend believe that this be one way we could incentivise people to step back into the workplace — by have more of their money as they earn it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be a key part of the reform bring in towards the last part of the last decade , enable by universal credit — a much simple system . I be glad to say that we manage to reduce that taper significantly and to incentivise work . Madam Deputy Speaker , I will try not to say " you " this time — I be sorry . I would be genuinely interested to know what the opposition ' s position be on reform of the incapacity benefit system . it be a knotty problem . I know that when Opposition Members be in government , it be consider , but I be not clear what their position be at the moment . I know the Government be come forward with proposal soon , so I would be genuinely interested to hear . I be grateful for the opportunity . we have a whole series of plan that be sadly interrupt by the general election result , and I will come on in a moment to some of the suggestion I have for where the Government might go . the hon . Gentleman be talk about incentivise people into work . in my surgery in Torbay , I find that an awful lot of people be off sick with hip problem or mental health challenge , and the challenge people have in get back into work be the broken health system that be leave by the previous Conservative Government . I hope the new Government will drive hard on fix the system , because many people on benefit be keen to get back into work ; they be just unfit for work . the hon . Gentleman reflect the experience that many of we have have in our surgery . nevertheless , I do not think that health reform on its own will do the job . as I mention , the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee have look into the matter and report last week , point out that the increase in welfare claim can not be attribute to long waiting list or , indeed , to worsen health condition . the welfare problem be outstrip the problem we see in the nation ' s health , so we have to do more in the DWP . we wait with bated breath to see some movement on that front . in fact , it be in this debate last year when we be uprating benefit that the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) , now a ministerial colleague of the right hon . member for East Ham , say that , " Labour have a plan " . that be a year ago . seven month ago , Labour win the election . she do not say that the plan be oven - ready , but she imply it . I know the Minister say that the delay be because of a court case that happen two week ago , but I do not quite understand how that explain the delay that have be go on for seven month . here we be approve a measure that will increase expenditure by nearly £ 7 billion , as the right hon . Gentleman say , and we have no idea how the bill will be bring down over time . but after much head scratch in the DWP — and , we be tell , people pull their hair out in no . 10 — we be get close to the big reveal . we hear exciting hint in the medium that the Government might scrap the limited capacity for work category altogether , scrap the work capability assessment , merge employment and support allowance into the personal independence payment system , or require people on sickness benefit to engage with work coach . I be encourage by all that pitch - rolling . if the Government be soften up their Back Benchers for serious reform , I applaud they for it , but I will believe it when I see it , because Labour oppose every step towards tough condition , more assessment and more incentive to work . they oppose reform that we be introduce to the fit note system . in fact , I see from a write answer to a question in the other place that the Government say they have no plan to reform the fit note system , which I regret . I wonder whether the Minister could help clarify if that be the case . on universal credit , it appear that the sinner repenteth , or sort of repenteth . the Government be on some kind of journey . in the last Parliament , they say they would scrap universal credit , then they say they would replace it , and now , as we have hear , they be review it . I be glad to hear that , although the right hon . Gentleman just say that they be review it over the course of this year , so that seem to be unrelated to the Green Paper process , which we be expect in the spring . I would like to understand how those two process be align . rather than scrap , replace or review universal credit , I invite the Government simply to use it . it be a flexible system , as we see during the pandemic , and it work ; it just need to be adapt to the new challenge . in conclusion , let I make a few suggestion for the right hon . gentleman to consider as he prepare his Green Paper and his universal credit review . the back to work plan that we announce before the general election would have get 1 . 1 million people into work , use more support and tough condition — " more support " mean more of the WorkWell pilot that my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) introduce . I be glad to hear the Secretary of State praise those pilot yesterday , although sadly without attribution . in our view , the work capability assessment should be face to face , and it should be asset - base , not deficit - base ; it should be ask what a claimant can do , not what they can not do . the claimant should begin the journey of recovery — the journey back towards work — then and there . rather than budget for ever high welfare , as we be do today , we should be invest in a universal support system to run alongside universal credit . we also need tough condition . we simply can not have people with a bad back or anxiety be sign off sick for the rest of their life ; they need to know that we believe in they , and that believe in they mean have high expectation of they . in exchange for benefit pay for by work people , claimant should take active step , when they can , to address their physical and mental health need , and they should work meaningfully on their own health and wellbeing . that will not look the same for everyone and it must not be a tick - box exercise . that be why we need the help of civil society , not just coach and therapist , provide the human touch and the range of help and opportunity that people need . Most of all , we need a clear message to go out from the Government that unless a person be so severely disabled or ill that they genuinely can never work at all , they will not have a life on benefit . that clear message , enact through reform that the right hon . Gentleman ' s Department must bring forward urgently , be the only way to get our exorbitant welfare bill under control , and to get our workforce and our economy move again . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I will start by comment on the contribution make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) . first , it be really important that in this place we use evidence , to help ensure that we have effective , evidence - base policy . when we be use policy - base evidence , that be quite dangerous . I be refer to his remark about conditionality . I refer he to the evidence , such as the two - year study undertake by the University of York , which show that there be no evidence to support tough sanction . People have lose their life because of sanction , and that study show that there be no evidence to support stop somebody ' s social security support — their money that they use to live — for up to two year , because that be the period that the Government of the day say benefit could be stop for . that have real - life consequence . I can also refer the shadow Minister to his own Cabinet Office report , which show that sanction be not effective in get people into work . we all need to be very responsible in what we say . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be sorry but I be not go to give way . as a former public health consultant , I can also say that the key driver of ill health be socioeconomic determinant . there be so much evidence for that , go back decade , and I wonder why Conservative member be not familiar with it — whether it be just not palatable to they , or it be inconvenient . much more recently , the covid inquiry that we debate a couple of week ago show very clearly that one of the reason why we have such a poor experience , both in term of morbidity and mortality — more than any other country in Europe — be our ill health . it do a real disservice to the people who have lose their life or be endure long covid at the moment , to their family and their memory , to suggest that it be something else , let alone to the people who be — will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be not go to give way . [ interruption . ] I be not go to give way . I welcome the social security order and , in particular , what my right hon . friend the Minister have say about it . it be an absolute pleasure to serve on the Select Committee when he be its Chair , and in this respect I agree with the shadow Minister : my right hon . friend ' s transfer from the Select Committee to his ministerial position be very welcome . we all appreciate his gravita and experience , but also his common decency in the role . I want to talk about the context of this uprating order and the importance of our social security system in provide , at the very least , a safety net for people when they need it , and from cradle to grave , like the NHS . unfortunately , though , over the past 14 to 15 year , the adequacy of support for people on low income have be dramatically erode , particularly for people of work age — again , contrary to what the shadow Minister have say . between 2010 and 2012 , the uprating be about 1 . 5 % ; between 2012 and 2016 , it be 1 % ; and between 2016 and 2020 , it be zero . the average annual consumer price index increase for each of those year be about 3 % . there have be a steady and consistent erosion in the value of social security support , which have affect the value of universal credit , jobseeker ' s allowance , employment and support allowance , income support , housing benefit , child tax credit , work tax credit and child benefit . the Resolution Foundation have estimate that this erosion be equivalent to a cut of £ 20 billion a year from social security support for working - age people . that be clearly not well understand by the conservative party . something else that be not well understand be that these be predominantly people in low - pay work . the vast majority of people in receipt of working - age social security support be , or have be , work people — that be something for we all to consider . only a tiny proportion of DWP spending be spend on jobseeker ' s allowance , for example — it be 0 . 001 % of the current budget . as be evidence in the Work and Pensions Committee ' s report from last year , which I invite shadow Ministers to read , out - of - work support be at the low level in real term since 1912 . this be not a generous system ; accord to OECD comparison , we be not support people in the way that a civilised society as well off as we be should do . the consequence of inadequate social security be clear . last week ' s Joseph Rowntree Foundation poverty report make for bleak reading — again , I invite people to read it . over one in five people in the UK be in poverty ; that be 21 % , or 14 . 3 million people . of those , 8 . 1 million be working - age adult . some 4 . 3 million child be in poverty — three in 10 among the population as a whole , while in my constituency the figure be one in two — and 1 . 9 million of those in poverty be pensioner . disabled people be at great risk of poverty , partly by virtue of the additional cost that they face due to their disability and ill health , and partly due to the barrier to work that disabled people face . disability employment have flatline ; when it come to be in work , the gap between people who be not disabled and those who be have be about 30 % for the past 14 year or so . it go down by about 1 % . some 16 million people in the UK be disabled — nearly one in four — and almost four in 10 family have at least one person who be disabled . the poverty rate for disabled people , which be 30 % , be 10 percentage point high than it be for non - disabled people . the rate be even high — 50 % — for those live with a long - term , limit mental health condition , compare with 29 % for people with a physical disability or another type of disability . other group of people be also disproportionately more likely to live in poverty , include former carer , people from ethnic minority community and lone parent , but give the medium speculation there have be about the future of disability support , I want to focus on that . last year ' s Select Committee report on benefit level set out a wide range of evidence suggest that benefit level be too low and that claimant be often unable to afford daily living cost and extra cost associate with have a health condition or disability . although the Select Committee support the Government ' s ambition to get Britain work and a social security system that support work , these ambition be not achievable within a few month . meanwhile , people be barely cling on . the DWP do not have an express objective for how it will support claimant with daily essential living cost . in the Select Committee ' s report we recommend build a cross - party consensus to take this forward , and for the Government to outline and benchmark objective link to living cost to measure the effectiveness of benefit level , and to make change alongside annual uprating . I would welcome my right hon . friend the Minister revisit this Select Committee report , particularly our recommendation . I would like to set out the consequence of our currently inadequate social security system . from peer - review article , we know that for every 1 % increase in child poverty , six baby per 100 , 000 live birth fail to reach their first birthday . that be the consequence of live in poverty for child . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , because of his medical training , will know much of this , but a rewiring of the brain of child live in poverty affect they for the rest of their life . in another peer - review piece publish in 2016 in a BMJ journal , entitle " first , do no harm " , a metadata analysis of the impact of the change to and reassessment of the work capability assessment between 2010 and 2013 in 149 local authority area in England find that , for each additional 10 , 000 people who be reassess , there be an additional six suicide , 2 , 700 additional case of mental health problem and over 7 , 000 more antidepressant script . this be evidence . many member will know of my previous campaign , and I want to refer to the death we have see of social security claimant whose benefit have be stop . I mention again Errol Graham , a 52 - year - old Nottingham man with a severe mental health condition , who basically starve to death after his social security support be stop . there be so many other I could mention , and I pay tribute to the family who have campaign on their behalf for justice , because it be quite horrific . talk about people survive our social security system , there be the case of TP — I will use his initial — also a 52 - year - old man , who have work all his life . he be diagnose with non - Hodgkin lymphoma and , sadly , his diagnosis be terminal . he be try to be migrate from his particular incapacity support to universal credit , and he lose all his disability premium . he be one of the litigant in a case about transitional protection when migrate from ESA and disability premium to universal credit . this be an example of somebody who have work all their life , and four out of five disability and health condition be acquire — it could happen to any one of we , and I would just like we to consider that . in another case , AB be bear with congenital cerebral palsy and work for 25 year , but then could not go on . if I read out the whole story , we would all be in tear , because it be just heartrende , describe the indignity of have to rely on such low - level support . I will leave it there , but I know my right hon . friend the Minister take this very seriously , and I hope all of we here will work towards make the social security system more adequate for those people . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I would like to acknowledge the very sobering and comprehensive speech give by the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) . this be disturbing , and one would hope that our DWP , and our Government as a whole , would take a trauma - inform approach to deal with our community , as I believe that would stand we in good stead . I broadly welcome the uprating in the proposal before we for both benefit and pension , but I will focus first on pension . sadly , the Labour Government inherit a system under which , for the last 10 year , we have see an increase in pensioner poverty . two million pensioner remain in poverty , and 1 million be on the edge of poverty , and one would have hope that a Labour Government want to cut the number in half and promote social justice would have drive such an agenda hard in their first seven month in power . the cut to the winter fuel allowance have exacerbate this situation . the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) highlight the backlog and rightly say that they be totally unacceptable . the reality be that we be see pensioner poverty . again , we know that woman be more likely to be victim of poverty , yet the WASPI woman have in effect be victim of a decision of this Government . it be really pleasing that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions welcome the report , acknowledge it and apologise , but , sadly , she do not actually action the report . that give I great displeasure , as well as many other people across the United Kingdom . in evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , the ombudsman suggest that there be usually a bit of a conversation between the ombudsman and the Government about what an acceptable system or approach to compensation would be . sadly , however , that never happen as far as the WASPI woman be concern , which be disturbing , and I want to understand why . why be there the breakdown in communication between the ombudsman and the previous Conservative Government ? I be look to explore that with the ombudsman in another way . on pension , I would also like to highlight the housing issue . I serve my community for 30 year as a councillor , and I be therefore very alive to some of the challenge people face . housing be a massive issue , and it be disturb that , when reflect on pension , the cost of housing be rarely take into account . in 1979 , 35 % of our housing stock be social rent housing . that figure be now down to 17 % across the United Kingdom , and in my constituency of Torbay it be as low as 7 % . this mean that people , whether pensioner or those on other benefit , in constituency such as mine where there be a lack of social rent housing be particularly hard - hit by that lack of support ; they will have to take money away from put food on the table in order to pay the rent . it be therefore disappointing that the local housing allowance have not be enhance in this round . almost 1 million child across the United Kingdom will be live in household that have this gap between their benefit and the cost of their accommodation and they will be drive even far into poverty . on universal credit , colleague have already mention the recent Joseph Rowntree Foundation report which highlight that couple face a £ 55 a week gap between cover the basic and what they actually receive . that be a little over £ 2 , 800 a year , so people be be drive even deeply into poverty just around the basic on their universal credit offer . finally , on the carer ' s allowance scandal , while we liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s engagement and the review that be take place , unanswered question remain . we need to make sure this be address at pace to support people , because 136 , 000 people — the equivalent of the population of West Bromwich — be affect , owe £ 250 million . they fall foul of a system where people only need to earn £ 1 more a week and they do not then owe £ 52 , they owe £ 4 , 200 — taper need to be implement . one of the real challenge we face be that the DWP service be , sadly , break . it be not fit for purpose and need redesign . I have nothing but utter respect for the Secretary of State on this issue , and instead of drive new agenda we need to lift the bonnet and redesign the system , get it for purpose and , most importantly , co - design it with people who be disabled or benefit user , so that it can actually support they . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech about those most in need of benefit and the difference they can make . he speak about the WASPI woman and about child in poverty , but do he agree that veteran could also be help out more by the DWP , such as by the Government back the Royal British Legion " Credit their Service " campaign to change legislation so that military compensation be not class as income when calculate mean - test benefit ? do my hon . Gentleman agree that that group would benefit from such a change ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that . my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) and I be await a meeting with the Minister to explore that very issue and the RBL ' s campaign . to conclude , I live through a world of broken child ' s service in Torbay , but we roll our sleeve up , sort it out and move from fail to good within two year by get the right people in place , make sure system be sort out and drive culture change . we need that co - design with people who use the system so we can get the DWP sort as well . first , I echo the comment of other in praise the Minister for his work on this issue over decade in this place . I see it before become a Member of Parliament during my time work in the charity sector at the Resolution Foundation and most recently at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation . I be work on these issue , and I always know then that we have a friend in Parliament who care deeply about the welfare system and about the need of people receive benefit and support from the state , and who also , like I , want to see more people be support to move into employment . even though I be not go to focus on that topic today as I want to talk about pension , I do want to put on record my thank for his service , and I be glad to see he as a Minister . I want to start by talk about an institution that be not often discuss in this place but that be crucial to all of our life and shape a lot of politic even though we do not remark on it too much : the family . that be the institution that almost all of we be close to and that shape so much of the way we see the world . it be important that we as policymaker — as people sit here in the House of Commons — do not just think of individual as people on their own who be separate from one another and that we instead remember that we all exist in family . if we look at someone ' s biography online , it might say they be a father and a husband , because our family be a big part of our identity . we would do well to remember that . sometimes our politic and our medium might want to push we into discuss pension in a way that promote the salience of a war between the generation , but nothing could be far from the truth . the hon . Gentleman talk about the importance of family and I could not agree more , but do he also agree that a family be a unit design by that family and an arbitrary limit of a two - child benefit cap do nothing to protect that family unit if they have more than two child ? I grow up in poverty . we have no money and live in social housing . I have free school meal throughout my childhood , and the three of we be in emergency and temporary accommodation as well . and I know the benefit system be there for my mum and for we , and I have confidence that this Government will make the decision that we need to make to ensure that our welfare system be there for family like the one I grow up in . I know a review be look at universal credit and the welfare system , and I look forward to it report in the month ahead . this be a really important issue , and I thank the hon . gentleman for raise it . on family and the state pension , often people want to pit the young and the old against one another , but the evidence show that young people be one of the most supportive group for the increase in state pension . that be in part because we — I still call myself young now , in my early 30 — know and have see throughout our life how much people who be retire , such as our grandparent or old people we know in the community , have contribute to our life and our family and also the life of our community . also , to put on my economist ' s hat , increase in the state pension and support for the triple lock , which we on this side of the House steadfastly support , will benefit young people the most because an extra few penny on the state pension today mean an extra few pound — or ten of pound or , depend on which generation we be talk about , hundred of pound — in the future because of the way these thing compound over time . it be really important we continue to support the state pension and the triple lock . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about the long - term benefit to the economy from treat the benefit system seriously . do he agree that that apply to the two - child cap as well because if we be to remove that not only would we lift hundred of thousand of child out of poverty , which be inherently a good thing , but we would also improve health and education outcome and ultimately make a more productive population over the long run ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention on the same important topic raise by the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) . I know that the Government be look at this issue and at how we can reform the welfare system to support people to get the money they need and have the incentive and the right approach to welfare to help more people get into employment . that be the long - term sustainable route to reduce poverty and I hope we can do more to achieve it . rise — I be happy to give way , although I perhaps should make some progress . the hon . Member make a fantastic point about the family unit . the last Government be look at introduce a measure on household income , particularly with child benefit , to try to make sure that we see people not as individual , but as a group . that could stop such thing as the child benefit cliff edge . however , the new Government take that measure away in the Budget . would he make the argument to his Front Benchers that look at household unit — the family unit — be a positive way of see how we can support people ? that be important in some respect . one of the challenge with the policy that the hon . member identifie be that we tax people on an individual basis and the benefit he refer to be often link to the tax system . he raise an important point , and I be sure it be be consider . I will make some progress and conclude my remark . I be supportive of the increase in the state pension and of the triple lock . I know we have already have a little de - dong about it , but it be the case that the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) say that the triple lock be unsustainable . perhaps he be refer to the long term , but that still concern I , not least give what I have say about young people benefit most from increase in the state pension over time . I be glad that in April the 20 , 000 pensioner in my constituency will receive either a £ 470 uplift if they be on the new state pension or , I believe , a £ 360 uplift if they be on the basic rate of state pension . that be incredibly important for living standard . I spend many year live with my grandparent part - time . they teach I a lot , and many of my value have come from they . we know how much care old people can provide to family and to their community , and I see that in Chipping Barnet . at almost every community event , whether that be a local church , an institution or a charity do good in the community , there be so many retired people give their time and care , make Barnet — my corner of north London that I have the pleasure of representing — a well place to live . provide that security in retirement be so very important . I endorse the warm word of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , in pay tribute to the Minister , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) and the work he have do in previous Parliaments . as a recently elect member , I be not in the House then , but I be aware of the work be do . some of the contribution we have have in this debate so far have be extremely powerful . the quality of the debate seem to be in inverse proportion to the number of Members present . I rise not to oppose these order but to focus specifically on the Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 , or GMP . the order give applicable pension scheme the percentage by which they need to uprate GMP entitlement build up between 1988 and 1997 . this year the increase be 1 . 7 % . wow ! that be inform by the CPI figure for the year to September 2024 . while that increase and the other increase be welcome , they will not even touch the side . we must remember that the Government have take away the winter fuel payment . we have see numerous increase in energy cost , and we be see rise food price because of policy on national insurance contribution and now the family farm tax . these matter be reserve , but all those year ago back in 2014 , we be promise in the run - up to the referendum that we would receive maximum devolution . that have not happen . People in Scotland may not know this , but we have have to introduce seven different benefit to mitigate the effect of decision make here in Westminster . fair pension be necessary for ensure dignity in old age , but we must be aware of the unintended consequence when change be make to the pension system . during the transition to single - tier pension in 2016 , the DWP be find by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman not to have provide clear and accurate information that some pension holder be bad off under the change . by the DWP ' s own figure , about 50 , 000 people would lose out . that failure in communication seem emblematic of an outdated approach to social security that see people unfairly treat when change be make to their pension provision . we see that happen again with the WASPI woman . the PHSO again find that the DWP have commit maladministration in communicate those pension change to WASPI woman . pension and pension provision be wide - reach . last week , I raise the issue of prison officer and change to their pension scheme that mean some of they will be work until they be 68 . I again impress upon the Government the need to consider the unintended consequence of that and all other pension change . that be perhaps even more pertinent now , as the state pension age be due to rise to 67 for man and woman between 2026 and 2028 , and to 68 between 2044 and 2046 . the DWP fail on previous occasion when it come to communicate these change to people regard their pension . we have a new government , and if they will not allow the scottish people to determine their own future in these matter , or they will not devolve these matter to the Scottish Government , all I can ask be that they deliver fairness in pension , because people need certainty when it come to their retirement plan . I agree with the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) when he mention the forthcoming review of the welfare system , and I wholeheartedly endorse the quiet word speak by the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) when she make her powerful intervention talk about the socioeconomic determinant of ill health . that message can not go unnoticed by the DWP in these matter . it be a real honour to participate in this debate . I may not be as illustrious as previous contributor , but I will try my good to make whatever small impact I can . I start by comment on a point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) about believe in people and want the good for they . I wholeheartedly agree with that — we want the good for people and for they to be the good that they can — but simply believe be not enough . simply believe that my child will achieve great grade at school without send they to school or give they the facility and the tool be not enough . my team be in the relegation zone , and simply want they not to be relegate by belief will not be enough without investment in that football team . when we have have under - investment , especially in the mental health sector , we need more than just belief to achieve and to alleviate those problem . the semantic that we use specifically around our gps , when we be sometimes question their credibility when they sign people off , be rather damaging . I welcome the increase in pension announce by the Secretary of State , but at this moment in time , as colleague have mention , 1 . 9 million pensioner in the UK be live in relative poverty . pensioner be miss meal , have to shelter in library and be depressed due to the Government ' s cut to the winter fuel payment . research conduct by Unite the union have show that more than two third of its retire member be have to turn down their heating . a third be take few bath and shower , and 16 % have cut back on hot meal due to the increase cost of try to stay warm . heating or eating be a reality for many people ; they be not just word that we utter in this Chamber . in addition , more than 63 % of people have say that they have feel more cold , more often and 17 % be report that the cut have result in their become ill or their symptom become bad . that be burden our NHS , which be already overstretch . we must find a way , if possible , to release the statistic for excessive death cause by the cold weather . you be make a very powerful case . would you agree with I that — Order . I be sure the hon . member be not intervene on I , so the word " you " be not appropriate . intervention should be brief . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the hon . Member agree that just as the Government be address child poverty by set up a child poverty taskforce , they should set up a pensioner poverty taskforce for pensioner poverty ? I could not agree more ; that would be vital for pensioner . ever since I be elect , email from pensioner on that issue have be in the top three issue — it be a real issue . if alongside increase pension we could reverse the cut to the winter fuel payment , that would save life . that conclude the Back - Bench contribution . I believe that the Minister would like to do a short wind - up . with the leave of the House , I thank everyone who have contribute to the debate . there have be some helpful contribution on important issue . I be grateful for the support express for the measure in the order , and for the kind thing say about I , which I will enjoy while they last . let I thank in particular the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , for draw attention to the contribution of other who speak in such debate in the past . he name Paul Maynard , David Linden and Nigel Mills , and he be absolutely right to do so . I be particularly grateful to Nigel Mills for his help in the work of the Work and Pensions Committee , and I be delighted that the Committee be now in the good hand of my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) . she make an important contribution to the work of the Committee in the last Parliament , and have an important and positive influence over the whole direction of the Committee . she highlight , as she often do , the position of vulnerable benefit claimant and how they be look after . I look forward to give evidence to she in the Committee next week as work resume on an inquiry of the Committee from the last Parliament . I be grateful to the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , who call for a taper in carer ' s allowance . as he will have hear , the Chancellor announce in the Budget in November that we would look at the case for a taper . I hope to be able to update the House on that reasonably soon . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) for what he say . he be right to draw attention to the high level of support among young people for the triple lock policy , which matter right across the age range . the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) be right to call for certainty about pension . People need to know what the position will be when they reach retirement age . the last Labour Government reduce the number of pensioner below the poverty line by a million . sadly , as we have be remind in this debate , it have go up again over the last few year . we want to get back on the well track that we be on before . that be pick up in the remark of the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) . do the Minister agree that two measure that the Government could take that would make a serious impact on the level of poverty would be to restore the winter fuel payment and abolish the two - child cap ? I have already speak in the debate about the two - child cap , and we will be come forward with the report and strategy propose by the child poverty taskforce . on pensioner poverty , I think that substantial measure will be need , and we will come forward with those in due course . I be grateful to the Minister for take another intervention . he talk about plan for the future and people understand what be go on with their pension . we have the WASPI example where that be not see to be the case . the new Government be make change to inheritance tax and where pension fall , but much of the public do not realise that that will have big implication for they as their pension will be subject to tax and inheritance tax . would he consider a campaign to let people know that that change be come in the next year or so ? I be not quite sure what change the hon . Gentleman be refer to , but I certainly agree that people need to be confident about what the arrangement will be in the future so that they can plan accordingly . that be the one of the reason why the pension triple lock be important , as it give people confidence about how thing will be in the future . we be : increase the basic state pension and the new state pension in line with earning growth by 4 . 1 % , meet our commitment to the triple lock ; increase the pension credit standard minimum guarantee in line with earning growth by 4 . 1 % ; increase benefit to meet additional disability need and carer ' benefit in line with price ; and increase working - age benefit in line with price as well , at 1 . 7 % . this year , gmp accrue between 1988 and 1997 must by law be increase by 1 . 7 % , which be the increase in the consumer price index in the year up to September 2024 . the GMP be important in give people assurance about a level below which their scheme pension can not fall . I commend both order to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . pension resolve , that the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 January , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) National Insurance Contributions I beg to move , that the draft Social Security ( Contributions ) ( rate , Limits and Thresholds Amendments , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veteran ' s Relief ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow motion : that the draft Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . regulation be make each year to set various national insurance threshold , and to uprate child benefit and the guardian ' s allowance . in open the debate , I will give the House detail of what the regulation set out to do . first , the Social Security ( Contributions ) ( rate , Limits and Thresholds Amendments , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veteran ' s Relief ) Regulations 2025 set the rate of certain national insurance contribution class and the level of certain threshold for the 2025 - 26 tax year . the low earning limit , the small profit threshold and the rate of class 2 and class 3 contribution will all be uprate by the September consumer price index figure of 1 . 7 % , while the other limit and threshold cover by the regulation will remain fix at their exist level . the regulation also make provision for a Treasury grant — a transfer of wide Government fund — to be pay into the national insurance fund , if require , for the 2025 - 26 tax year . the regulation also , importantly , extend the veteran ' employer national insurance contribution relief until April 2026 . the scope of the regulation under discussion be limit to the 2025 - 26 tax year . as hon . member will know , national insurance contribution be social security contribution ; people make contribution when they be in work to receive contributory benefit when they be not work — for example , after they have retire , or if they become unemployed . national insurance contribution receipt fund those contributory benefit , as well as help to fund the NHS . the primary threshold and the low profit limit be the point at which employee and the self - employ start to pay employee class 1 and self - employ class 4 national insurance contribution respectively . the primary threshold and low profit limit be freeze by the previous Government at £ 12 , 570 until April 2028 . however , the level of those threshold do not affect people ' s ability to build up entitlement to contributory benefit such as the state pension . for employee , entitlement be determine by their earning be above the low earning limit , which the regulation will uprate from £ 123 a week in 2024 - 25 to £ 125 a week in 2025 - 26 . that be the equivalent of an uprating from £ 6 , 396 to £ 6 , 500 a year . entitlement for self - employ people be determine by their earning be above the small profit threshold , which the regulation will uprate from £ 6 , 725 in 2024 - 25 to £ 6 , 845 for 2025 - 26 . uprating the low earning limit and the small profit threshold be the usual process , and it maintain the real level of income at which people gain entitlement to contributory benefit . wage growth be currently high than inflation , which mean that follow the uprating by CPI , there will be a reduction in the number of hour that someone who have receive a typical wage increase need to work to gain entitlement compare with last year . the upper earning limit , which be the point at which the main rate of employee national insurance contribution drop to 2 % , and the upper profit limit , which be the point at which the main rate of self - employ national insurance contribution drop to 2 % , be align with the high rate threshold for income tax at £ 50 , 270 a year . the previous Government also freeze those threshold until April 2028 . I now turn to the threshold for employer national insurance contribution relief . as hon . member be aware , the Government have have to make difficult decision to fix the public finance . one of the tough decision that we face be the decision to increase the rate of employer national insurance contribution and reduce the secondary threshold . although those change be the subject of a separate Bill , not these regulation , they be the context for why our decision to maintain other target national insurance contribution relief be so important . those employer relief include those for under - 21 - year - old , under - 25 apprentice , veteran , and new employee in freeport and investment zone . the regulation that we be debate set these threshold in line with other personal tax threshold . the regulation also provide for the national insurance contribution relief for employer of veteran to be extend for a year until April 2026 . this measure mean that next year , business will continue to pay no employer national insurance contribution on salary up to the veteran upper secondary threshold of £ 50 , 270 for the first year of a qualifying veteran ' s employment in a civilian role . I welcome the extension of national insurance contribution relief for veteran , but do the Minister agree that we need to do more to ensure that employer across the country know that the relief exist , to incentivise employ veteran ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we want employer to be aware of this important relief , and to encourage they to make use of it to employ veteran . this relief help to support those who have already give so much to our country , and it also mean that the skill and the huge potential of those people who have already give such service to our country can be use to make a further contribution to our country and our economy . we want all employer to know that this relief exist . we can all play a role as local mps in make sure that all employer in our constituency be aware of this important relief . I thank my hon . friend for let I make that point . the continuation of the veteran relief be evidence of the Government ' s commitment to support our veteran . as I explain in response to my hon . friend ' s intervention , it be intend to incentivise employer to take advantage of the wide range of skill and experience that ex - military personnel offer . as I say , it be important that we support those who have give so much to our country by help to make sure that our country benefit far from the skill and potential of our service leaver . let I move on to the national insurance fund , into which the majority of national insurance contribution be pay , and which be use to pay the state pension and other contributory benefit . the Treasury have the ability to transfer fund from wide Government revenue into the national insurance fund . the regulation make provision for a transfer of this kind , know as a Treasury grant , of up to 5 % of forecast annual benefit expenditure to be pay into the national insurance fund , if need , in 2025 - 26 . a similar provision will be make in respect of the Northern Ireland national insurance fund . the Government Actuary ' s Department report lay alongside these regulation forecast that a Treasury grant will not be require in 2025 - 26 , but as a precautionary measure , the Government consider it prudent to make provision at this stage for a Treasury grant . that be consistent with what have be do in previous year . I turn to the draft Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate order 2025 . as hon . member will know , the Government be commit to deliver a welfare system that be fair for taxpayer while provide support to those who need it . the order will ensure that the benefit for which Treasury Ministers be responsible , and which his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs deliver , be uprate by inflation in April 2025 . child benefit and the guardian ' s allowance will increase in line with the consumer price index , which have inflation at 1 . 7 % in the year to September 2024 . uprating by the precede September ' s CPI be the Government ' s typical approach . tax credit award will end on 5 April 2025 , so no change to rate will be require from 2025 - 26 onwards . I hope all member will support the regulation . reject they would mean that hmrc - administer benefit would not rise at all next year , and so would lose value in real term . the regulation fix most of the rate and threshold for the national insurance contribution that they cover at the 2024 - 25 level for the 2025 - 26 tax year , except for the low earning limit , the small profit threshold , and the rate of class 2 and class 3 contribution , which will all be update by the September 2024 CPI rate of 1 . 7 % . the regulation also make provision for a Treasury grant . they extend the veteran employer national insurance contribution relief , and increase the rate of child benefit and the guardian ' s allowance in line with price . the Minister talk about the Treasury grant be up to 5 % . as a matter of curiosity , what figure have Treasury plan to put in ? the regulation contain a provision for we , in case it be need . the expectation be that it will not be . as I mention , a Government Actuary ' s Department report lay alongside the regulation have forecast that the Treasury grant will not be require in 2025 - 26 . the provision in the regulation be a precautionary measure , and be in line with what have happen in previous year . the Government consider it prudent to continue the practice of previous year , and to make provision for the grant in these regulation . I hope that answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the regulation enable an increase in child benefit and the guardian ' s allowance in line with price . without these regulation , HMRC would be unable to collect national insurance contribution receipt , and child benefit and guardian ' s allowance would be freeze at the 2024 - 25 level . I hope that colleague will join I in support the regulation . before I call the shadow Minister , I inform the Liberal Democrat spokesman that I will call he immediately afterwards . I welcome the opportunity to contribute on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . as the Minister say , the first statutory instrument set rate , limit and threshold for national insurance contribution for the 2025 - 26 tax year . it cover the rate of class 2 nic , the small profit threshold , the rate of voluntary class 3 nic , the zero - rate relief on secondary class 1 nic for qualify armed force veteran — a Conservative Government legacy that we be very proud of — and the various upper secondary threshold and the upper limit and threshold that determine class 1 nic . these regulation also allow for payment of a Treasury grant not exceed 5 % of the estimate benefit expenditure for the 2025 - 26 tax year . this be to be make into the national insurance fund , with a corresponding provision for Northern Ireland . we welcome the uprating with CPI of the class 1 low earning limit and the class 2 small profit threshold , but the overall picture in these regulation be one of continuity , not of change . the secondary threshold , however , be the exception . although the regulation leave it unchanged , that will not last for very long . they will be overridden by the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , which be under consideration in the other place . it will cut the secondary threshold from a weekly level of £ 176 to £ 96 in the come tax year , on top of raise the secondary class 1 NICs rate to 15 % . the disastrous , job - destroy consequence of Labour ' s £ 25 billion tax on work people be well know by now , and have be debate in this place many time . they be also widely acknowledge , from the independent Office for Budget Responsibility to the left - wing Resolution Foundation . this time last year , when in opposition , the Minister put on record his concern over the distributional impact of the freeze on allowance , limit and threshold , which his government be in large part continue . we accept that these be difficult decision , but we take they to return the public finance to a sustainable footing in the aftermath of the double crisis of the pandemic and the energy price shock drive by the disgraceful invasion of Ukraine . if the Minister be concern about the distributional impact back then , and in particular about " the post - tax income for low and middle earner " — [ Official Report , Sixth Delegated Legislation Committee , 7 February 2024 ; c . 6 . ] , I wonder just how concerned he be now , in the context of his own party ' s Budget . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have show that the large percentage increase in labour cost will be inflict on low - wage worker ; meanwhile , as much as 76 % of the additional tax burden will be pass on to those same worker in the form of low real wage , accord to the independent OBR . do the Minister agree with the OBR and the IFS on the distributional impact of the NICs tax hike ? my hon . friend have talk about context , which be really important . this be a finance SI , but the wide context be that another Bill be be bring forward — the Employment Rights Bill — that be estimate to cost £ 5 billion on top of exist tax measure in the Budget . do he think that that will have a direct impact on people who be try to find work ? there be a chance , surely , that more people will be let go and make unemployed because of this potential cost and impact . I completely agree with the point that my hon . friend be make , which have also be make to I by several local business in my constituency . this be a double whammy . we have a tax increase that will increase the cost of do business and affect the profitability of business and , in some case , their survival ; in addition , they be be hit with additional regulation , which businesse themselves , include the CBI , have make clear will add to the burden of regulation and make it less easy to hire people and , in some case , to keep they . this double whammy , I be afraid , will result in job freeze at good , and , in some tragic case , to job loss . I think we should all be very concerned about that . to be fair to the Minister , he have in the past express great concern about the lower - pay in our society across all constituency . have he therefore undertake his own distributional analysis of change to national insurance rate , limit and threshold in the round ? if he have , do that analysis show anything different from what the OBR and the IFS have show ? I would like to highlight the fact that the impact note for this specific statutory instrument predate the October Budget . I hope there be an update impact analysis to consider the new context — surely there be . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm that and show it to we . finally , I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm whether the Treasury be consider an extension of the veteran zero - rate relief beyond 2026 , or whether that will now act as a final sunset date for the relief . he be absolutely right to say that we all have a part to play in highlight this relief to business . we all want to see veteran hire in our country . my constituency have one of the large population of veteran , and I , with other on the Opposition Benches , will certainly join the Minister in do anything we can to well inform business of this benefit . however , it would be good if he could confirm whether there be any plan or intention to extend the relief beyond the 2026 point set out in the regulation . as the Minister say , the second statutory instrument uprates child benefit and guardian ' s allowance in line with CPI for the 2025 - 26 tax year . these benefit be an important part of our welfare system , and we welcome the vital support that they provide . however , as the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have point out , " work be the most important route out of poverty " , and we agree . between 2010 and 2024 , conservative Governments help to create 4 million job . the proportion of child live in workless household fall from 16 % to 10 % . even as employment increase , the proportion of all job consider low pay decline from 20 % in 2010 to just 3 . 4 % in 2024 , which I hope the whole House welcome and recognise . labour have never leave office with unemployment low than it find it , and within four month of its first Budget unemployment be on the rise , with the number of worker on payroll drop by the most we have see since the peak of the pandemic . meanwhile , the OBR say that Labour ' s job tax will weigh on real wage . with inflation also expect to rise in the near term , and many of the Minister ' s Back - Bench Labour colleague no doubt take the view that child benefit provision be not generous enough , have the Government prepare an assessment of the impact of their Budget measure on level of child poverty over the next 12 month , and in particular of the impact their job tax may have through high unemployment and low pay ? finally , be the Minister confident that this uprating will cancel out any adverse consequence of the Budget , such as those I have raise ? the liberal Democrats welcome the Minister ' s suggestion that today ' s proposal be yoke to the national insurance increase go through the other place . since the general election , we have have doom and gloom from the Labour party until very recently . the uncertainty around the Budget and the national insurance increase that be yet to hit have only put the cold hand around the economic growth that we need to see pump hard in our economy . in my own part of the world in the west country , it be have a massive impact on the tourism industry . the fact that the threshold at which people start to pay national insurance be go down from £ 9 , 200 to £ 5 , 000 mean that business in my constituency , such as Paignton pier , Paignton zoo and Splashdown , all have massive increase in seasonal worker cost , through both the threshold hit hard and the increase in national insurance cost . when I speak to business such as Splashdown in Paignton , they tell I that it mean they will probably operate for a short time and that they may look at reduce the number of staff they take on . sadly , the national insurance increase be a job tax on our tourism industry , as well as on the rest of our economy . I be only too well aware that the cost to hospitality be £ 1 billion . that be extremely disturbing . again , people will not be take on due to those cost pressure . therefore , this really be a job tax . I be very interested in what my hon . friend be say about the threat to job . at the other end of the country , the north of Scotland , we have the same issue . the loss of any job in the hospitality industry be disastrous , when we do not have much employment anyway . we would like much more — let we put it that way . I be delighted with my hon . friend ' s intervention , because the Liberal Democrats represent the full length of the United Kingdom from Shetland to the Isles of Scilly , and it be important that we hear about that impact from a breadth of colleague . the Liberal Democrats represent some of the good place to go on holiday across the UK . there be a significant high - tech industry in Torbay . again , business in that manufacturing industry tell I that their owner abroad may ask they to offshore some of their manufacturing to place such as Taiwan , where taxis on employment be significantly low . that be another significant impact of the rise in national insurance contribution . Bay Care be an outstanding social care business , but Kat Hall , one of its senior manager , tell I that this measure will have a significant impact . the business operate within very tight margin , and it will have to reduce service or limit its offer to our community in South Devon and Torbay . those reduction will inevitably have an impact on the social care offer . finally , let I say something about the voluntary sector . Torbay Communities give outstanding service to the people of South Devon and Torbay , but the national insurance increase will confront it with considerable challenge . it will have to think about whether to reduce its staff and stop support some of the most vulnerable people in the area — people who be in need . with due respect to the Minister , I ask the Government to reflect on these increase and to see how they can alleviate they , particularly in the hospitality , social care and voluntary sector . with the leave of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will respond to the comment of hon . member . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , set out the official Opposition ' s response to the regulation and the order that be before we , but his speech relate largely to the change be make by a different piece of legislation — a Bill — so I will be careful not to try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , by veer into that legislation , and will remain strictly within the confine of the regulation and the order . let I say briefly , however , that as the hon . Gentleman know , we have to take difficult decision in the Budget last October , and one of the tough be the decision to increase the rate of employer national insurance contribution and lower the secondary threshold . the reason we have to take those difficult decision be the fiscal situation that we have inherit from the Government of which he be a member . I note that in his recollection of history , he refer to a double crisis ; I think that it be , at the very least , a triple crisis , give Liz Truss ' s premiership in the country and leadership of his party , so he may have omit certain fact from the historical record , although I be sure that the wide british public will make no such mistake . the hon . Gentleman speak about some of the impact of the national insurance change . again , he be speak about a Bill rather than the statutory instrument that we be discuss , and for that separate Bill a tax information and impact note have be publish , as be standard practice . I welcome his support for our extension of veteran relief for a year , until April 2026 , to help more ex - service personnel into employment . as the scope of the regulation be limit to the 2025 - 26 tax year , they could extend it only by one year , but we think it important for that to be do . the hon . Gentleman also speak about work be the good way out of poverty , and I entirely agree with he in that regard . when we be create job and ensure that business can invest and provide work opportunity for people throughout the country , it be important for those job to be decent job with decent pay , and our change to the national living wage be of course important in that respect . overall , in relation to all the measure in the Budget , the Office for Budget Responsibility have conclude that the employment level will rise from 33 . 1 million to 34 . 3 million between 2024 and 2029 . the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , also speak about a Bill rather than the regulation that we be debate . I want to reassure he by point to the comment that the Chancellor have make since take office last July . since her first few day in no . 11 Downing Street , she have be determine to boost growth by get rid of the ban on onshore wind turbine , reform the way in which pension can invest , and ensure that the planning and regulatory barrier get out of the way of the growth that we be determined to achieve for this country . the Chancellor ' s growth speech last week be just the late example of her leadership in take those decision , which be the right one for our country , to boost investment and growth . we know that have a stable set of public finance be a prerequisite for that investment and growth . the difficult decision that both Opposition spokespeople refer to be slightly off the topic of the regulation in front of we , but they none the less draw attention to the fact that those difficult decision be precisely to restore the public finance , while support public service , therefore allow investment to increase and seek the growth that we be determined to deliver for this country . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Social Security ( Contributions ) ( rate , Limits and Thresholds Amendments , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veteran ' s Relief ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . resolve , that the draft Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . — ( James Murray . ) business of the House ( 5 February ) order , that at the sitting on Wednesday 5 February , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on — ( 1 ) the Motion in the name of Secretary Yvette Cooper relate to Police Grant Report not later than three hour after the start of proceeding on that Motion , and ( 2 ) the Motions in the name of Secretary Angela Rayner relate to local Government Finance not later than three hour after the start of proceeding on the first such Motion or six hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion relate to Police Grant Report , whichever be the later ; proceeding on those motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Medicines for Human Use ( Clinical Trials ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 12 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Space Industry that the draft Space Industry ( Licence Exemption for Military Activities of Allies ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 12 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . parliamentary Works Estimates Commission Resolved , that Ms Nusrat Ghani and Nick Smith be confirm as member of the Parliamentary Works Estimates Commission under Schedule 3 to the parliamentary Buildings ( Restoration and Renewal ) Act 2019 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) bereaved parent : Birth Certificates Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) twenty - two year ago , I become part of a club that no one want to join : the young widow club . my husband Nick die of oesophageal cancer , and I be leave with an 18 - month - old baby and a toddler . over the course of the next couple of year , I meet dozen of young widow , include Beth , whose husband Simon have die of bowel cancer just two day before their beautiful baby daughter Elsa be bear . Beth and I navigate this strange and unwelcome new reality together , spend time with our three little girl , who be all too young to understand the awfulness of what have happen . Beth be part of an even small , even more unlucky club than I : the one where you have to give birth alone , to a baby you have long for , while at the same time grieve for the partner you have lose and the future you will never share . for many of those tragically unlucky woman , it get even bad . every year in the UK , around 200 young bereaved woman be draw into a ridiculous , unnecessary and costly legal battle to have their baby ' s father ' s name register on the birth certificate . incredibly , in 2025 , if a woman be pregnant when their partner die but they be not married , the law say that they can not automatically name the father on the birth certificate . if ever there be a case of add insult to injury , that have to be it . the law seem to think that if a woman be legally marry , there be no question but that her baby be her husband ' s . but if she have be live in a committed relationship , perhaps for year on end , the fact that she do not have a ring on her finger mean that the paternity of her child be in question . have be through the unimaginable experience of lose her partner while carry his child , and then give birth alone , she be then expect to enter into a legal process to prove that he be indeed the father , so that the child do not grow up with a blank space on their birth certificate . this be out of date , out of touch and , frankly , quite traumatic for all those involve . woman have describe it as demeaning , insulting and overwhelming . the reality be that more and more couple be choose to live together without get marry . in 2022 , the number of child bear outside marriage in the UK surpass the number of baby bear to parent who be married or in a civil partnership for the first time since record begin in 1845 , accord to figure from the Office for National Statistics . it be high time the law be update to remove this anachronistic insult to unmarried mother . not long after I be widow , I become involved with a brilliant organisation call WAY — Widowed and Young . it be where I meet Beth and make many other lifelong friend . way have be run the Blank Space campaign to try to change this out - of - date law , which penalise people for not be marry . I commend WAY for its campaigning and be proud to bring this issue before the Minister so that the anomaly can be address . the woman I will talk about be all member of WAY , and I thank they for share their story . Nicola and her partner Stewart have be through a successful in vitro fertilisation journey , which be need because he have have testicular cancer 10 year early . six week after a positive pregnancy test , they find out that Stewart ' s cancer have return , and he die seven month into Nicola ' s pregnancy , so he never get the chance to meet the son he have so desperately fight for . Nicola book an appointment with the registrar , know that she would be go alone , but she take as much paperwork as possible to show that Stewart be the father . she have a range of hospital document sign by he , which not only prove that he be the father but detail his document wish for their embryo if he be to die . however , the registrar explain to Nicola that because she and Stewart be not married , he have to be physically present to be name on the birth certificate . her evidence do not count , and she be send away with a birth certificate that have a blank space where Stewart ' s name should have be . Nicola say : " we have make this baby together , literally and scientifically , and for he not to be recognise at all be devastating . " it take a year and over £ 1 , 000 to get to court . Stewart ' s father go along to attend the hearing with Nicola , and it take just a few minute for the court to discuss and approve the change , and to add Stewart ' s name to the birth certificate . it be almost as if the court could not believe that she have have to go through the process in the first place . give the overwhelming evidence and the support of blood relative , it be the obvious decision . she say : " to have to go through this whilst bring up a newborn on my own and grieving be utterly humiliating and exhausting . " I can attest to the fact that no young widow who be learn to be a mum and grieve at the same time should ever have to fight to have their partner list on a birth certificate , and many of they can not afford to do so , even if they want to . Paula be 18 week pregnant when her partner be kill while cycle to work . despite have his dna and a prove 99 . 9 % match , it take three and a half year for she to get a birth certificate with his name on it , and the process cost nearly £ 3 , 000 . Eleanor ' s partner Robin be kill in a road traffic accident 18 day before his baby daughter be bear . Eleanor say : " if you haven ' t be through this situation , you may not understand how demean this rule be . it make I feel like I wasn ' t to be trust , as if an unmarried woman have no right or voice . my partner and I live together and plan to have a child — we just weren ' t marry . it wasn ' t a one - night stand , and simple tax record would have prove that . while I shouldn ' t have have to prove anything beyond my word , I would have willingly provide documentation and statement from both our family to confirm our relationship . " in the end , the complexity and expense of have to fight the system prove too much for Eleanor , so her daughter ' s birth certificate be never change and the blank space remain . these example show just how difficult and cruel this situation be , and they also show that the process can be very different depend on where a woman live , which court she apply to , and who hear the application . like so many other thing , it can become a bit of a postcode lottery . under UK law , a birth need to be register within 42 day . if the parent be unmarried , they both have to be present to be name on the birth certificate — one parent can not add the other . if a parent have die , the survive parent can amend the birth certificate at a future date to include the deceased parent ' s name , but they have to apply first to the family court for a declaration of parentage . this involve a form and a court fee of £ 365 , and the court application take three to four month to be process . then , at an initial court hearing , a senior family judge will consider the application . many judge have never come across this process , and I have read story of young widow not only have to go through the process themselves , but have to explain it to judge and court administrator while do so . there may be a second hearing some month later , and in between there will be request for dna , evidence and witness statement . if the court approve , it will issue a document confirm that the deceased person be the child ' s parent , and it then make a declaration at a court hearing . this will then be send to the registrar of birth , death and marriage , and it can then take several more week for the re - registering of the birth to be complete . I be sure I do not need to tell member that this be a tortuous process — one of those bit of bureaucracy that seem ridiculous when we spell out the whole process , as I have do here . at the good of time it would be frustrating and slow . at the bad of time , it can simply be too much to cope with . the paperwork of death be long , frustrating and sometimes complicated . I remember be tell by one organisation that it have to have write confirmation from my husband to close an account , even though I have write to it to say that he have die . I would like to think that thing have move on in the last 23 year , but we seem to have create a system that overcomplicate everything . clearly , it would not be right for someone to be able to put someone else ' s name down on a birth certificate as the father without reasonable proof ; what WAY be campaign for be a way to resolve this issue so that woman whose partner have die during pregnancy can follow a clear and simple process to register their partner on their child ' s birth certificate . it should not cost thousand of pound , and it should not be so complicated that some woman just give up through frustration . in Switzerland , France and Germany , unmarried father can declare their parentage early in the pregnancy to protect their right . we have parental responsibility agreement here for unmarried father , so perhaps one answer would be to bring that forward into pregnancy so that if the bad , most unimaginable tragedy happen during pregnancy , there would be one less thing for newly widow mum to have to worry about . doctor could make a record of who the father be when the pregnancy be first enter into medical record , and this could be use as a legal document . advice could be give at antenatal appointment , bring people ' s attention to the issue that can arise for parent who be not married , so that they could be more aware . the executor could be call in as a witness to confirm paternity . there be way around this if we be creative and clever . in honour of Nicola , Paula , Elanor and their child , I look forward to hear how the Minister will take this dilemma forward and hopefully find an answer . when you be widow young , you lose so much . you lose the partner you love , you lose the life you have build together and you lose the future you have plan . your child lose their father — or sometimes their mother — their family be never the same again , and their life will be shape in many way by the loss , however young they be when it happen . be widow when pregnant be all this and more . the trauma of birthing and grieve at the same time run deep and last a lifetime . I really hope that the Government will move swiftly to make some change so that one tiny little bit of this awful journey be make easy for those who have to navigate it . I congratulate the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) on bring forward this incredibly important debate and thank she for have the strength to share her experience . she have shine a light on a matter that will resonate with people in every constituency across the country . I rise to raise a related matter that have be bring to my attention and to the attention of other representative in Birmingham by one of my constituent , Wunmi Babalola . last year , she and her partner Charlie lose their infant son , Kayode Babalola - Fellows . her experience of register Kayode ' s death be much more difficult than it need to be . they find themselves sit in Birmingham register office alongside new parent who be register their own child ' s birth , and they be require to attend two separate appointment on the same day to register the birth and their son ' s pass . Wunmi say : " I be already feel the pain of our loss so much and when we arrive we have to sit and wait our turn with everyone else , include with parent with their baby register their birth . I feel my loss so intensely in that moment , it hit I like a ton of brick … it should be a joyful time for new parent , while obviously for we it be an awful , traumatic one . I just didn ' t feel those two world should have to collide like they do . " I also pay tribute to Councillor Carmel Corrigan , who be a representative for king Norton North in my constituency . last week , Birmingham city council carry her motion call on the authority to work with the register office to secure an appoint officer with seniority and experience to support family through their grief , so that people who experience baby loss do not have to register their baby ' s death alongside parent who be register birth , and to explore what additional support the registry service and the NHS can provide to parent in that situation . Carmel speak about the loss of her own son , Aodhan Hay , 28 year ago , when she experience something very similar . if something can come out of this debate , I hope it be attention for the issue raise by the hon . member for South Devon and for the situation that my constituent face , because if we can prevent a similar ordeal for other bereaved parent , we will have do some good . I pay tribute to all the campaigner , include the hon . Lady , who have take some form of good from the hard pain and dear loss to provide some comfort to other . I ask the Minister to look at the good work undertake in Birmingham and to assess the case for national guidance and support for register office , so that the circumstance that Wunmi and Charlie face do not happen again . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this debate on an important and emotive subject . I start by say how sorry I be for the loss that she and her family suffer , and how much I admire her resilience in come to this House to share her story . that take a huge amount of courage . the circumstance in which the hon . Lady and other have lose co - parent be heartbreake indeed . the Government be determined to ensure that the justice system be well able to support child and family , and particularly mother who have lose the father of their child . the hon . Lady helpfully outline the current process for register a parent ' s name on a birth certificate when that parent have pass away , but it be important to set out precisely how this work . under section 55A of the Family Law Act 1986 , in situation where a child be bear to unmarried parent and the father be deceased prior to birth , a declaration of parentage must be issue by the court for paternity to be establish . it be right that a fee be attach to this application , but it be important to say that there be mechanism in place to support those who can not afford the fee . the help with fee scheme consider a range of factor , include an applicant ' s income , their saving and whether they receive any benefit , so that the fee can be waive in certain circumstance . once a declaration be issue , the birth can then be re - register to include the father ' s detail or , to put it another way and as we have hear , to fill in that blank space . to recognise the challenge that mother face when seek a declaration of parentage , a key intention of the provision in family proceeding be to make the process as simple as possible in the most difficult of circumstance , while at the same time ensure that the court have the mean to establish parentage if one parent be deceased and be not , of course , able to convey their view themselves . that process , while we have to emphasise simplicity and ease for those go through the tough of circumstance , be an important one . it be important because in some case the process can bear on significant financial implication for other , such as child from previous relationship , and can bear on issue such as nationality and other that touch on the good interest of the child . while ensure the process be clear and simple to support bereaved parent , the court must therefore have a process that instil confidence in the important detail that a birth certificate contain . I want to add my congratulation to the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) on secure this incredibly important debate . the Minister have speak well on the process involve . if a couple be married when the father die while the woman be pregnant , it be a relatively simple process to register that person as the father of the child . it be a much more complicated matter for people where the couple be not married . I suggest , and I hope my hon . friend agree , that legislation might not have keep pace with societal change and with the reality of how couple now choose to live when they plan family . my hon . friend be right to reflect on the grow number of couple in this country who cohabit and for whom marriage be not something they have choose . it be right , too , that in general the law keep up , to reflect that sort of societal change . I will come in due course to discuss more widely what the Government be do in that space . I return , however , to the essential point that while clarity , simplicity and affordability be important in the registration process , particularly to support bereaved parent , we must have a process that instil confidence in what the birth certificate contain . I thank the hon . member for South Devon for draw attention to Widowed and Young ' s campaign . as she rightly point out , it do some absolutely amazing work , particularly for those young people who have tragically lose a spouse or life partner . I can reassure the hon . member now that the Government take the matter incredibly seriously and we be work hard to improve the family justice system for child and family . widow and Young advocate for a simplified court process . we know that delay in the court process add to the distress when someone be go through bereavement . that can have a significant impact on child and family . we be committed to improve timeliness and reduce the outstanding caseload in the family court . that be why we have set ambitious target for reduce delay in 2024 - 25 and have focus on close the long - run case , not least so that can free up court time to deal with precisely the sort of process to which the hon . member draw attention . to far support those who use the family court , we be commit to improve digital solution to support family with explore various option for resolve child arrangement dispute early and away from court whenever possible . that be an area where digital solution can be bring to bear on the sort of issue that have be raise today . the Ministry of Justice be work on test and develop various digital innovation that aim to support user in the private family justice system to help those family find the right information at the right time for they to reach agreement where that be appropriate , and particularly in the sort of process and proceeding under focus , which in the vast majority of case be entirely non - contentious . let I turn to the wide issue of cohabitation reform . the subject that the hon . member for South Devon raise and that other have raise today speak to the broad issue for cohabit couple in our society who , under exist law , have only limit financial protection compare with those who be married or in a civil partnership . I know that a number of colleague across the House have write to my Department about this , and my noble friend Lord Ponsonby be pleased to attend a parliamentary roundtable to discuss it last November . we know that the limited right and protection available to cohabitant can affect the most vulnerable in our society who be often affect at the most difficult stage in life , such as when a partner die , or at the point of separation . we know , too , that those limited right and protection disproportionately affect woman , include victim of domestic and economic abuse , as well as their child . with the number of cohabit couple in the UK have more than double over the past 30 year , it be important , as other have say , that law reflect the society in which we now live . that indeed be why the Government set out in our manifesto a commitment to strengthen the right and protection available to woman in cohabit couple . we will be set out the next step on this manifesto commitment — how we intend to implement it — as soon as possible . the issue raise by the hon . member for South Devon speak directly to those challenge that sometimes face parent who be unmarried . I would like to thank she once again for secure this important debate and pay tribute to her bravery in come forward to talk about it . I hope that this be the start of a conversation . I hope that she and I can discuss in more depth very soon the sort of change that might be necessary to well protect people in law , and I look forward to work with she to that end . while I be on my foot , let I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) for the related issue that he raise and let I extend my personal condolence to the family involve . they have be through one of the bad thing imaginable in my view . certainly , process of administration — of registration — should not be design to exacerbate that . if he will write to I with that particular case , I would be happy to take a look at it , and I look forward to work with he on how we can address and mitigate the distress of parent of child who die in childbirth . once again , let I thank the hon . member for South Devon for secure this important debate . I look forward to work with she on how we can ameliorate the situation for those for whom she be campaign . question put and agree to . House adjourn .