I thank the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) for his excellent and very emotive maiden speech . I welcome you to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for call I to speak in this important debate . above all , I thank the people of Harlow . it be a diverse constituency that include not only Harlow but the village of Roydon , nazeing , sheering and , follow the recent boundary review , Hatfield Heath , Hatfield Broad Oak and too many other to name . I thank everybody for give I the incredible opportunity to serve as their Member of Parliament . the new Prime Minister use the word " service " throughout the election campaign , and he have use it in this Chamber . in fact , the Leader of the opposition even use it in his opening remark on the Humble Address . Harlow be a constituency that demand and deserve the utmost service from its member of Parliament , and in my direct predecessor , Robert Halfon , it have an MP who constantly champion and work hard for the constituency . I genuinely thank he for his service . likewise , his predecessor , Bill Rammell , who be a good friend and a mentor of mine , be still remember fondly on the doorstep by resident he have support . both of they have show how to persevere in the face of obstacle and beat the odd . although my story be far more humble , I hope I can live up to the high expectation that they have both set . I also thank Bill ' s predecessor , Jerry Hayes , who believe in the importance of public scrutiny . finally , I pay tribute to the late Stan Newens . I get to know Stan quite well in his later year , because all our Co - operative party meeting be hold at his house . if anyone enjoy a trip back in time through literature , I would recommend a visit . at the end of every Co - op meeting , Stan would come over to I and whisper into my ear , " you ' ll be an MP one day . " Stan , I do not believe it at the time , but it turn out that you be right . my background be one of service . I spend 15 year as a secondary school math teacher , and more recently I work for a charity in Harlow call Streets2Homes , which support homeless people , and for Action for Family Carers , which support unpaid carer , particularly those who be young . a while ago , I have a conversation with the leader of the Liberal Democrats , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , about his excellent contribution to the report on young carer . I also pay tribute to razed Roof , a wonderful charity of which I be a trustee . it be an inclusive theatre company , and I have to say a big hello to Simon . like many member , my experience have shape my politic and my interest in politic , but my priority be also shape by the constituency of Harlow . many member will know that Harlow be a post - war new town , design by Sir Frederick Gibberd . Sir Frederick design Harlow to be a place of community ; every community have its own shopping area , playground and green space . a local historian describe Harlow as be design — excuse I for this , Madam Deputy Speaker — on socialist principle . it be a place where people can see a Barbara Hepworth or a Rodin while just walk down the street . that sense of community be put to the test during the pandemic , when we see dark time not only in this country but across the entire world . I be proud to report to everybody in this House that during those dark time , Harlow ' s community step up ; they pass the test . they support the most vulnerable people across our town and community . perhaps that be no surprise , give that our town invent the fibre optic cable , and be the home of Harlow college and the birthplace of Rupert Grint — I have no idea why I put those thing in that order . apparently , Harlow have the low density of pub per head of population . that be okay , though , because there be one five minute ' staggering distance from my house . it be the convention to talk about a non - controversial issue in one ' s maiden speech . that be tricky when you find yourself in a room with people with oppose view . I think that I might talk about football , but I be a Leeds supporter , and my hon . friend the Members for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , and for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , go before I , so I think I shall leave the subject alone , but I be sure this House will join I in congratulate the mighty Harlow Town on their league cup victory last season — let we not worry about what league it be . instead , I decide to talk about young carer , a subject very close to my heart . as I have say , I be a secondary school math teacher for 15 year . in one school , I have a boy in my form — I shall call he George , but that be not his real name . he be a lovely lad . every Friday , it be my job to check that pupil have get their homework planner sign by their parent , so that we know that the pupil be do their homework and record it properly , but George never get his planner sign . anyone who know I as a teacher would say that I be a bit of a softie , so I let it go , but over time , I have to keep he back at break time and lunch time because his planner be not get sign . he never argue . he just turn up , do his five - minute detention and go on his way . it be only at parent ' evening that I find out that both George ' s parent be severely physically disabled , and that George and his sister be young carer . I feel terrible . it be probably that experience that inspire I to become more involved in support young carer . the solution to George ' s issue be really easy . George , like many young carer , do not want to be treat differently . what we do be say , " your sister can sign your planner for you . as long as your sister get it sign , there be no problem . " lo and behold , he get it sign by his sister — he get a detention if he do not . he be happy with that . I be pleased to say that that story be about 10 year old . I think we have progress quite well in our recognition and understanding of young carer . I thank member from across the House , the leader of the Liberal Democrats and my own Prime Minister for bring their experience to this House . in a recent school census , 72 % of school say that they do not have any young carer . I can tell Members that , from my experience of support young carer , that can not be correct . it be predict that there be more than 10 , 000 young carer in Essex alone . Essex county council have identify roughly 3 , 700 of they , so there be a huge number of young carer whom we have not identify , let alone get the resource in place for . I would like to end my maiden speech on a positive : I ask the House to join I in thank all the young carer I have work with , and all young carer across Great Britain and Northern Ireland , for the incredible job that they do . many of they do not even think of themselves as be young carer because it be just what they do — they help a love one — but I want to put it on record that , to I , they be absolute hero .