Speaker ' s Statement Order . I would like to make a short statement . I do not usually discuss urgent question , but today I receive one and rather than discuss the matter in the Chamber , I think it would be well for I to set out my thought on a particular issue that involve procedure of this House . the House will be aware that the Prime Minister have today appoint the right hon . David Cameron as Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs . this be not the first time in recent year that a Cabinet Minister have be appoint in the House of Lords but , give the gravity of the current international situation , it be especially important that this House be able to scrutinise the work of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office effectively . I have therefore commission advice from the Clerks about possible option for enhance scrutiny of the work of the Foreign Secretary when that post be fill by a Member of the other House . I also look forward to hear the Government ' s proposal on how the Foreign Secretary will be properly accountable to this House . I do not propose to respond to point of order on this subject today , until the advice I have refer to have be receive and until I have hear the Government ' s own proposal , but I can assure the House that I be fully aware of the need for hon . and right hon . member to be able to hold the Government to account in this area , especially at the current time , and I shall do everything I can to ensure that they be able to do so . as colleague will know , the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be elect each session . nomination be now open and will close at 1 pm on Wednesday 15 November . nomination form be available from the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Members from the party not represent Government may be candidate . candidate need the support of no few than 10 member from the Government side of the House and no few than 10 member from the party not represent the Government or from no party . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 22 November from 11 am to 1 pm in the Aye Lobby . Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Menopause : Workplace Support what step his Department be take to help improve workplace support for woman experience the menopause . we take the challenge of the menopause very seriously , which be why the Government appoint Helen Tomlinson as the menopause employment champion for England . in term of progress , I point my hon . friend to the report , " no time to step back " . I welcome the work by campaigner and Devon ' s NHS to improve access to menopause service in Devon . almost 80 % of menopausal woman be in work , yet all too often support can be lack . what step be my right hon . friend take to raise menopause awareness among employer ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his extensive work as my constituency neighbour , push for proper support in all GP practice across the county . we lead by example : 64 % of the Department ' s staff be female and we have a menopause and workplace policy , which see 350 menopause ambassador across our DWP network . almost 900 , 000 woman in the UK have quit their job due to the menopause . the right to flexible work be a key part of tackle economic inactivity , and it would particularly benefit people manage menopause symptom . what conversation have take place between Cabinet colleague on remove the onus on employee to request flexible working and instead ensure that that be provide as a day one right , by default ? the hon . Lady ' s question be well direct to the Department for Business and Trade rather than DWP , as it relate to employment legislation and regulation . however , I be pleased to tell she that we have our 50plus champion , work coach in our jobcentre , the Midlife MOT and many other measure that be there to help exactly the people she describe . welfare System : impact of AI what assessment he have make of the potential impact of AI on the functioning of the welfare system . we have a number of project that use artificial intelligence within the Department to drive performance , efficiency and the service we provide to our customer . one important point to bear in mind be that we never replace a human when it come to judgment relate to a claim or an appeal . will my right hon . Friend tell the House what assessment he have make of the potential merit of the use of AI in fraud protection ? how will his Department ensure that appropriate safety measure be in place ? let I take the second of my hon . friend ' s point first . as I have outline , there be always human intervention when it be appropriate . none the less , he be quite right to raise the issue of fraud and error . we have see a reduction in the Department over the past year of some 10 % across the benefit system , and much of that have be drive by machine learning and data analytic . destitution : child what step his Department be take to reduce the number of child experience destitution . what step his Department be take to reduce the number of child experience destitution . what step his Department be take to reduce the number of child experience destitution . what step his Department be take to reduce the number of child experience destitution . what step his Department be take to reduce the number of child experience destitution . child poverty and its reduction be absolutely core to the mission of my Department , which be why we have focus on cost of living payment , why we have put up benefit across the board by 10 . 1 % and why the Chancellor announce £ 3 . 5 billion in the spring statement to support our back to work programme to raise people out of poverty . one of the crown achievement of the previous Labour Government be to lift 1 million child out of poverty . how do the Secretary of State think that that compare with the Conservatives ’ record give that new figure show that child be experience destitution , and that that have actually triple since 2017 ? I think that our record be extremely clear . since 2010 , we have 1 . 7 million few people in absolute poverty , 400 , 000 few child in absolute poverty , and 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty . under Labour ' s watch , we have 1 million people park on long - term sickness benefit for more than 10 year . there have be a shameful increase in the level of destitution in the UK , with 1 million child not have their basic need meet . in my constituency of Blaydon , nine child in every classroom be live in poverty . across the north - east , there have be a 12 % increase in emergency food bank parcel in the past year . do the Minister agree that his Government have completely fail the most vulnerable child in the UK ? no , I be afraid that I can not agree with that at all . I have just go through the various figure point to the decline in the level of absolute poverty , include 400 , 000 few child in absolute poverty since the hon . Lady ' s party be last in Government . the cost of living payment , the increase in the level of benefit , and the £ 3 . 5 billion that the Chancellor have make available to help people back into work be help to drive poverty figure in the right direction . the Minister ' s response be disappointing . if the government do not recognise the problem of child poverty in this country , how will they fix it ? one million child experience destitution in the UK last year . organisation such as Chantelle ' s Community Kitchen , Little Village and Wandsworth Foodbank in my constituency work tirelessly to fill in the gap , but they say that there be increase hardship and they be worried about the winter ahead . what impact do the Minister think that crash the economy and unleash a cost of living crisis have have on child poverty ? the common theme in all the question that we have have on this substantive question be a lack of memory as to what happen under the previous Labour Government . under that Government , we have 1 million more workless household and 680 , 000 more child in those workless household . in the past six month , the Trussell Trust have issue 769 emergency food parcel for child in my constituency . in some school that I visit , teacher bring food from their home to feed hungry kid . will the Minister step up and take responsibility for this , or , instead , move out of the way for a Labour Government commit to make child poverty a thing of the past ? Heaven forbid that we do have another Labour Government , Mr Speaker , because I have just set out the case against the last one and their appalling record on poverty . when it come to cost of living payment , those go to 8 million low - income household and to 6 million people with disability . there will be further payment of £ 300 for pensioner alongside the winter fuel payment in the come month . I wish to draw your attention , Mr Speaker , to a very distressing case in my Slough constituency . a single mother , a victim of domestic violence , be struggle to pay her rent and meet basic need due to cut in her universal credit after be compel to find part - time work . her living condition , include mould in her home , be very badly affect the health of her child . will the Secretary of State explain how current policy be help to support such vulnerable family , and what immediate measure will he put in place to ensure that we do not have such dire situation of destitution ? I can not comment on the specific case that the hon . Gentleman have put forward , other than to say that what he have describe be of concern to I and I will want we to look into that extremely carefully . I will be happy to make sure that he have the appropriate time with the appropriate Minister — I think the Minister for Employment — to look into those matter . I call the shadow Minister . in " a Christmas Carol " , publish 180 year ago , Charles Dickens write of a world where child lack shelter , clothing , heating and food . they be represent by a boy call Ignorance and a girl call Want . Dickens die in 1870 and we live in the sixth - large economy in the world , so why , in 2022 , accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , do 1 million child experience the type of destitution he chronicle long ago ? we have hear the Minister quote figure and programme , and launch attack on previous government , but simply , as a human , would he not agree that just one child live in destitution be one child too many ? I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman that one child in destitution be one too many . one person in poverty be one too many . one person who be unemployed and badly want a job to support their family be one too many . the question we have to ask be how good to go about improve those situation . I say it be through encourage people into work and through those cost of live transfer payment for those target through universal credit , which his party originally oppose , so that we can help those who be most vulnerable and most in need . I call the SNP spokesperson . the cost of living crisis be plunge many family into destitution . we know from the JRF that 1 . 8 million household and 1 million child be plunge into destitution last year . will Secretary of State use the upcoming autumn statement to bring forward the mortgage interest tax relief and action to tackle soar food price , and to reintroduce that £ 400 energy bill rebate ? otherwise , more and more child will fall into destitution . he have the power — will he respond at the autumn statement ? the hon . Gentleman raise mortgage payment in particular ; we have extend the scope of the support for mortgage interest arrangement , particularly for those who have not long be on universal credit . I can not comment on what may or may not be in the autumn statement , but I can assure he that the kind of issue he have raise be always at the centre of our thinking . personal Independence Payment : People with Multiple Sclerosis if he will undertake a review of the Personal Independence Payment assessment process for people with multiple sclerosis . the Department closely monitor all aspect of the assessment process , include how we assess fluctuate health condition such as multiple sclerosis . follow the publication of the recent White Paper , we be look at way to far enhance the delivery of personal independence payment to all disabled people . Orkney have the high prevalence of multiple sclerosis anywhere in the world , so we have see the problem cause by PIP assessment that do not cope properly with fluctuating condition . we now have the adult disability payment in Scotland , but that still use some of the same eligibility criterion . as the Minister carry out the review , will he speak to Scottish Ministers to make sure that we have a system that work for every MS sufferer , wherever they be in the United Kingdom ? it be fair to say that I have a collaborative and strong working relationship with Ministers in the Scottish Government , and I would definitely be keen to talk they about the test and trial that we be introduce , which I hope will help to well capture fluctuating condition and help people to provide all of the right evidence as early as possible in the claim journey , so that we get people ' s award right and make the right decision . we should certainly look to work UK - wide where we can . learn the lesson of our change to special rule for the terminally ill and the principle of the severe condition criterion should allow we to look at those who sadly have degenerative condition such as MS and motor neurone disease . will the Minister confirm that , as part of the testing and piloting , the Department be look at the potential for automatic entitlement for those with degenerative condition , which would lift around a quarter of a million people a year out of unnecessary assessment ? my hon . friend have be a strong advocate for the severe disability group work that we have be take forward . I be pleased to be able to say that Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the British Society of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine have agree to work in partnership with the DWP to test the sdg . reduce the assessment burden where it be inappropriate , and ensure that people get the right support and help , be the right thing to do . hospitality Sector - base Work Academy Programme what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the hospitality sector - base work academy programme in Cities of London and Westminster constituency . we be work with UK Hospitality and local provider up and down the country — from Liverpool to Manchester to Coventry ; in London , of course ; and also , to come , in Wales — to ensure that we have a hospitality work programme that provide employment training , work experience and a guarantee job interview . it be free for all DWP jobseeker . it be early day , but the sign be promise . may I first thank the Minister for Employment for join I this morning at Ben Venuti , a brilliant caf é and deli in Pimlico , to celebrate hospitality in Cities of London and Westminster ? I be delighted that the hospitality swap pilot have be launch in my constituency , where we have thousand and thousand of hospitality job . one of the business involve in the pilot be the Raffles London hotel , just up the road at the Old War Office , which I visit with UK Hospitality recently . what further step be the Department take to ensure that the scheme benefit minority and those struggle the most with the cost of living crisis ? it be a tough ministerial visit to an award - win coffee shop this morning — somehow , I miss the early hotel visit . I can assure my hon . friend that we be drive forward that hospitality pilot to try to tackle the recruitment issue in that vital sector , which permeate all across the United Kingdom . she will be keen to know that every person who pass get a hospitality skill passport , which we believe can genuinely make a difference across all age group and all section of the community . Work capability assessment : People with Neurological Conditions what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of work capability assessment for people with neurological condition . may I start by welcome the hon . gentleman to his place in this House ? the work capability assessment be a functional assessment base on how a person ' s condition affect they , not on the condition itself . work capability assessor have train across a range of health condition , include neurological condition , and can access a range of resource that have be quality - assure by relevant external clinician . my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests have not be publish yet , but I be a trustee of an epilepsy charity . I thank the Minister for his welcome and for that answer , but for people with neurological condition , particularly multiple sclerosis and epilepsy , the condition be not uniform . one week they might be affect in one way , and the next week in a different way . so the capability assessment have to match that so that they meet people ' s capability as they be . the publish consultation on reform the assessment be still cause a lot of concern for people with those condition , so what more can the Minister do to make it a holistic process that recognise people ' s need as they be ? I be not in a position to set out the outcome of recent work capability assessment consultation , but a key principle underpin the test and trial that I touch on early be to take well account of fluctuate condition , help people to provide high - quality evidence as early as possible in the claim journey . we be spend a lot of time work with stakeholder to develop that work , and I would be very willing to have a conversation with the hon . gentleman about that . support People into Employment : Essex what step his Department be take to support people in Essex into employment . employment in Essex be up 4 % on 2020 figure and well than in 2010 . full credit go to the Essex jobcentre staff , who , work across the county with local skill provider , be provide real opportunity for local man and woman . they hold a 50 - plus event in Witham recently , for example , and my right hon . friend will be aware that there be a job fair in Maldon on Wednesday , just down the road from her constituency . my hon . friend be well aware of the fact that Essex be a powerhouse when it come to employment , job creation and economic growth . that say , many business be still frustrated because they find recruitment and training difficult . we have the autumn statement come up , but will he touch on some of the cross - departmental discussion he have be have to look at how we can support business by lower taxis , get rid of regulation and red tape , and help they to employ more people and grow the economy ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her question , and for her robust championing of conservative value and support for business and job in her constituency and across Essex . we at the DWP be work across Government to ensure that we consider different way of support job , investment , childcare support , higher - pay skill and pathway into work . the view of my right hon . friend be strongly put , and I be quite sure that Treasury Ministers and the Chancellor will have take due notice . Youth Unemployment what step his Department be take to reduce youth unemployment . the level of youth unemployment be down by 43 . 8 % since 2010 , and this Government remain committed to deliver target support to young people through our expand DWP youth offer , provide comprehensive employment support for 16 to 24 - year - old claim universal credit . that offer include intensive support through the youth employment programme , youth employability coach and youth hub across Great Britain . I visit business on a weekly basis , and one thing they tell I in Ashfield be that they struggle to recruit apprentice . one of the barrier be the requirement for English and math , because a lot of these young people would make great apprentice but they either mess about at school or have not have that support . what more can we do to get those young people into apprenticeship , and then support they with their math and English at a later stage ? we fund apprentice to achieve English and math qualification by the end of their apprenticeship . we understand how important they be for people ' s long - term career prospect , and we be boost the rate for those qualification by 54 % from January . we be also pilot flexible English and math requirement for young people with learn difficulty or disability , to ensure that they be not overlook when it come to apprenticeship opportunity . [ Official Report , 16 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 7mc . ] economic inactivity due to ill health have more than double for 18 to 24 - year - old over the past decade . why do the Minister think that be ? could she also please look again at the closure of the local jobcentre in Halton Lea in my constituency because of build safety issue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question — I will happily take away his second point , have a look at it and get back to he in writing . I want to assure he and the House that have DWP youth hub together in one location help those young people who have be go through very difficult time because of covid . they help local youth expert and local partnership to come together and overcome those barrier , and ensure that young people have the skill and confidence seek by local employer to take up the opportunity that be around they , just down the road . it be really important that we be there to support they through those mixed youth hub , which be a big focus for I and for our Department . Anglo American and its contractor have just announce 70 new job opportunity at its Woodsmith mine just outside Whitby , with workshop both in Whitby and on Teesside for those interested . do the Minister agree that these sort of opportunity in the mining industry be just the sort of opportunity that young people need to grasp with both hand ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question , which go back to the point about know what job be just down the road for young people , so that the labour market come close to home for they . that be what our youth employability work coach do , and we see that with the kickstart programme : 163 , 000 job be create by employer who want young people in their business . their feedback show that they absolutely get something from have young people in their business , and I appeal to employer to keep do what be happen in Whitby . but the number of young people unemployed in Denton and Reddish be still far too high — the late figure show a 7 % youth unemployment claimant count , which be not good enough . give that the share of young people not in full - time employment or education rise last year , what more be the Minister do to make sure that young people in place such as Denton and Reddish get the life chance they deserve ? I absolutely agree that , in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and more widely , it be absolutely right that young people get the opportunity they deserve . in fact , since September 2020 the DWP ' s youth offer have see over 600 , 000 start . as I mention early , our comprehensive support for young people now encompass those from age 16 . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister begin answer these question by claim credit for have well youth unemployment figure now than in the aftermath of a global financial crisis , which seem to I to be a low ambition . as she have hear , we have problem with inactivity and we have more young people who be not do anything . what account can she give for the fact that , even after 13 and a half long year of Conservative Government , we have bad youth unemployment than Ireland , Norway and the Czech Republic , and that here it be double what it be in Germany and treble what it be in Japan ? what on earth have go wrong ? I think that be a reminder to continually speak up for opportunity for our young people . the current youth employment rate be 53 . 9 % , up three percentage point since 2010 . it have be my absolute mission in this Parliament , over the last four and a half year , to focus on young people , with around 140 new youth hub to support the complex need of young people . I humbly suggest that the hon . member go and look at the change that be happen , to see the difference be make in community up and down the land . we be not write young people off ; we be make sure that we support they . I go to see a new youth hub only last week , and the work be do on housing and with partner be innovative . it mean young people with smile on their face and their future in their hand . cost of living : Benefit Levels what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of benefit level in the context of rise in the cost of living . the Government have never spend more on welfare and benefit support than we presently do . from April 2023 , we uprate benefit by 10 . 1 % and increase the benefit cap level by the same amount . that be on top of the cost of live support that have be make to multiple household and individual to address the rise cost of bill . I thank the Minister for that answer , but he will be aware that the Trussell Trust have warn that food bank be at " breaking point " , as more and more people across the UK be unable to afford the essential , with new figure show that 1 . 5 million emergency food parcel be distribute through the charity ' s network between April and September this year . will the Minister therefore back its joint campaign with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation call for an essential guarantee within universal credit , to ensure that the basic rate at least cover life ' s essential and that support can never fall below that level ? the hon . member will be aware that there have be £ 94 billion of cost of live support over and above the 10 . 1 % increase in benefit rate . that support be over 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 . for example , the winter fuel payment will be pay to the tune of £ 600 or £ 500 over the next few week . would the Minister agree that the journey we have be on with benefit rate for the last decade and a half have perhaps be a little haphazard , and it be pretty unclear to most people exactly what basket of good and service benefit be actually mean to buy ? if the Minister do not agree with the case for an essential guarantee , will the Government commission their own study to work out if benefit be at the right level ? my hon . friend make an interesting point , which be clearly a matter for the Secretary of State and the Chancellor when they make their decision on uprating , and I be sure they will take that on board . there be always ongoing discussion about how one assess this process but , with respect , this be the system we have have for some considerable period of time . employment for disabled People what recent step his Department have take to help disabled people to find and remain in employment . there be a range of initiative for support disabled people to start , stay in and succeed in work . this include disability employment adviser , the Work and Health programme , intensive personalise employment support , access to work , Disability Confident , the information and advice service , and support in partnership with the health system . research by the charity Versus Arthritis have find that one in five people describe as economically inactive have a musculoskeletal — msk — condition . arthritis and MSK condition be the cause of over 23 million working day lose in 2021 alone . will the Minister ask the Chancellor for additional support in the autumn statement , to help people with arthritis and MSK to find and remain in work , and will he meet I and Versus Arthritis to discuss this serious issue far ? I be always happy to meet colleague to discuss such issue . it be fair to say that the Chancellor of the Exchequer have put a real emphasis on this policy area in his previous spending announcement ; no doubt he will have hear the hon . Lady ' s comment in advance of the upcoming autumn statement . when we consider initiative such as Work well — our work in respect of occupational health and the consultation on that — we see that a lot of effort and energy have go into recognise that retention be just as important as job start . I call the shadow Minister . in his conference speech , the Secretary of State say there would be a revolution in employment support for people with health condition and disability . do this revolution include a backlog of 22 , 432 people wait for an access to work decision , with an average delay of 48 day ? minister need to get a grip of support for disabled people , rather than vilify they . the Government ' s lack of real action often prevent disabled people from work . labour have a plan for delivery , so instead of endless reshuffle , why do the Minister not ask his boss to call a general election now ? I think I will pass up on the invitation at the end of the hon . Lady ' s question . the fact be that this government be concentrate on work hard to support more disabled people into work . we be unlock that potential with all the help and support around it . the hon . Lady specifically mention Access to work ; we now have more than 500 full - time staff member work on that , compare with 375 in March . we be focus on prioritise job start and streamline thing to make it easy for claim to be process and for people to get support quick , as well as that staffing increase . we have a comprehensive plan ; the hon . Lady ' s plan be hide somewhere — I be sure we would all love to hear it . pensioner : cost of live what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of Government support for pensioner in the context of rise in the cost of living . the Pensions Minister be unavoidably detain in no . 10 , so they have wheel out the old Pensions Minister to attempt to address the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the reality of the situation be that April see the big ever rise in the state pension , by 10 . 1 % , thank to the triple lock . every pensioner be entitle to a winter fuel payment and will receive a cost of live payment this winter . the poor pensioner will receive a £ 900 further cost of live payment . I thank the Minister for his answer , but many old people in my Falkirk constituency be live below or on the poverty line . furthermore , 2 million old people in the UK live below the poverty line , with many more hover precariously above it . research by Independent Age have show that old people be significantly struggle and urgently need additional cost of live support to help they through the come winter . by expand the eligibility criterion for the exist cost of live payment to people on housing benefit and those who receive a council tax reduction , we could help to support this group of old people who desperately need it . will the Minister commit to that ? with no disrespect to the hon . Gentleman , we have commit to that , which be why there be the £ 900 further cost of live payment , a doubling of the winter fuel payment and the high state pension we have ever have . this Government be passionately support our pensioner and our most vulnerable on an ongoing basis . I call the shadow Minister . new figure on pension credit update have shed light on the catastrophic failure to get money to the people who desperately need it . up to 880 , 000 pensioner be now miss out . thousand of household would be so much well off and able to keep the heating on and food on the table this winter . underpin the figure be a huge drop in uptake among the under - 75 , with a fall of up to 20 % . with so many new pensioner seemingly unaware of their entitlement to pension credit , will the Government stop bury their head in the sand and get a grip now ? it be good to welcome the hon . Lady to the Dispatch Box ; I have not previously have the chance to answer her question . we have undertake tv campaign , internet campaign and campaign on the radio , in print and on social medium — the great Len Goodman assist we in that regard before his passing — so there be fantastic support across all aspect . the hon . Lady should be aware that pension credit application be up 75 % in the year to May , and we have never have so many people as we be now seek to encourage to apply . absolutely , the Government be fully behind the pension credit campaign . Work capability assessment : People with Parkinson ' s Disease whether he have make an assessment of the potential impact of propose reform to work capability assessment on the ( a ) financial and ( b ) mental wellbeing of people with Parkinson ' s disease . the Department have develop estimate of the number of claimant impact by option consider in the work capability assessment consultation . estimate be not base on specific condition , because the work capability assessment be base on how a person ' s condition affect they , not the condition itself . the propose change to the work capability assessment could actually see half a million people force to look for work they be not cut out for and then at risk of sanction . the propose change on continence , mobility and social engagement be put thousand of Parkinson ' s sufferer at risk of be deny the benefit they need , cause needless stress and financial pressure . will the Secretary of State meet I and Parkinson ' s UK to discuss the impact on those suffering from Parkinson ' s ? hopefully the Government will then change their mind on these cruel proposal . what I can say to the hon . Gentleman be that no decision have be make . it be right and proper that the consultation response be properly consider in the normal way . I would be happy to meet with Parkinson ' s UK again ; I meet it previously , and it be an important stakeholder for the Department . we do think it be right that we look at the work capability assessment and review it periodically , not least because of the change we have see in homeworke and flexible working in recent year . support parent into Work what step his Department be take to support more parent into work . there have be transformational change in childcare , skill , training and support for future employer , as announce at the spring Budget . it be absolutely the case that from April 2024 , eligible work parent of two - year - old will be able to access 15 hour of free childcare per week from the term after the second birthday , plus there will be the delivery of more support for work parent of child over the age of nine month with 30 free hour of childcare . there be nowhere in the world that compare with our childcare offer on an ongoing basis . we have virtually scandinavian level . [ Official Report , 16 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 8MC . ] I be a huge supporter of the bold action that the Government be take to tackle the cost of childcare and get more parent into work . however , some setting in my constituency report that the rate the Government pay do not cover the full cost of provide that place , put they in an untenable position . can my hon . friend work with I , alongside the Department for Education , to ensure that the scheme be fully work and that the childcare place be actually there to be able to take up this generous Government support ? I be happy to convene a summit with the Department for Education , my hon . friend and his unitary authority to discuss the way in which we be ensure that . we be already work in partnership with the DFE to deliver this campaign , and clearly the Government be commit to ensure that the implementation of the expansion to 30 hour be deal with in an appropriate and seamless way . jobcentre what step his Department be take to expand the support available through jobcentre . I be on a one - man mission to support my hon . friend , who be a doughty champion for Don Valley and get more people into job in his Yorkshire constituency . it be a pleasure to visit his constituency recently and meet the jobcentre lead in his patch , to understand what we can do to drive forward great employment . he will be aware of the £ 3 . 5 billion package of support across the country , some of which be be spend in Yorkshire . I thank member of Doncaster and Thorne jobcentre for the job fair they have do , subsequent to my meeting with the Minister at Yorkshire Wildlife Park . job fair do a fantastic job . do the Minister agree that many people in their 50 be busy themselves at home , when they could be have a wonderful second career like I ? if he do agree with I , what can he do to help they jumpstart into a new career ? my hon . friend will be aware of the 50 - plus champion that we have up and down the country . the midlife mot be be roll out across the private sector and across jobcentre up and down the country . old Workers Week be come up , and there be no doubt that there be success up and down the country of worker beyond retirement age who be do amazing work , whether that be the 96 - year - old shop owner I meet in Macclesfield , or many of the other I have meet in the past few month . these be great people whom we want to support into work on an ongoing basis . last week , I receive a letter from the Minister for social mobility , youth and progression , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , say that she intend to close down the Jobcentre plus on Renfield Street , which be open on a temporary basis in 2021 . I know from have meet the staff there that they have do a huge amount of work to get people in through the door — and in particular to work with employer — and into employment , include a programme for Ukrainians . why do the Department want to throw that all away and close it down ? I think the clue be in the name : it be a temporary jobcentre during covid . I be happy that the specific Minister will write and far explain the situation . we now come to topical . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . give that remembrance be still fresh in all our mind , I take the opportunity to pay tribute to the armed force champion who work across our jobcentre network look after armed force personnel and their family . they do a fantastic job , and we should be very proud of they . these be financially challenging time , but the DWP be up to that challenge , hence all the cost of living payment that we have be hear about during question . inflation be come down and real wage be begin to move up . we continue to take a balanced and fair approach to encourage employment , which have result in economic inactivity fall by about 300 , 000 since its peak , and almost three quarter of a million since 2010 . the Trussell Trust have report a 68 % increase in the number of emergency food parcel provide to Portsmouth people in just one year . do the Secretary of State agree that more and more people be push into poverty be not a lifestyle choice and that urgent Government action be require to tackle the cost of live crisis ahead of another difficult winter for constituent in my patch ? I certainly agree with the hon . Gentleman that poverty be not a lifestyle choice . we have go through various statistic during question , with 1 . 7 million few people in absolute poverty since 2010 , 200 , 000 few pensioner in poverty since 2010 and 400 , 000 few child in poverty since 2010 . we have also go through the cost of living payment , the increase to the national living wage and all the other support that the Government be provide . the good people of Kettering would like to know what proportion of working - age adult be neither employ nor actively seek employment and what the Department be do to reduce that . my hon . friend be a doughty champion for Kettering . he will be aware that 20 . 9 % of working - age people be inactive , down 0 . 7 percentage point from last year and down 2 . 7 percentage point from 2010 , show that our drive to get more people into job be pay off . the UK now have a low inactivity rate than the US , France and Italy . we be do more every single day , but we be also aware that there be more to do . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the health of our nation be critical to the health of our economy , but after 13 year of this Government , both be in a dire state . the Secretary of State should know that the number of young people out of work due to long - term sickness have double on the Government ' s watch , predominantly drive by poor mental health . labour ' s plan will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health staff , with support in every school and hub in every community to tackle these problem early on . because I be feel generous today , Mr Speaker — so be I — at the moment . [ laughter . ] I would like to make the Secretary of State an offer . if he be serious about get Britain work , why do he not swallow his pride , do the right thing and adopt labour ' s back to work plan ? the reason for that — I be feel rather less generous — be that we have see Labour ' s plan in the past , and no Labour Government have ever leave office with unemployment anything other than high than when they come to office . under the last Labour Government , we see 1 . 4 million people park on long - term benefit for over a decade , with many of they exactly as the hon . Lady describe : long - term sick and disabled . under this government , we have near - record low unemployment , and we have 4 million more people on payroll employment than we have in 2010 . I be afraid that the Secretary of State be live in cloud cuckoo land . record number of people be out of work due to long - term sickness . we be the only country in the G7 whose employment rate have not go back to pre - pandemic level . it be not just young people but the over - 50 . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the rise pose a serious risk to our prospect for growth and the stability of the public finance . where on earth be the Secretary of State ' s plan to sort it out ? perhaps I be be a bit unfair , because it turn out that the Government can get the over - 50 back to work , but only if they be former Prime Ministers . order . I have be through this time and again . when Front bencher want to have an argument , they need to come in early please , and not soak up the time of Back Benchers , whom I now need to get to urgently . will the Secretary of State have a word with the current occupant of no . 10 , and ask he to put as much effort into save other people ' s job and livelihood as he do attempt to save his own neck ? very briefly , I have set out our employment record , which we be proud of . in his last Budget , the Chancellor set aside £ 2 billion to fund measure to tackle long - term sickness and disability . that include a consultation on occupational health , the roll - out of universal support and work well , about which the hon . Lady will hear more presently . the proportion of new claimant for incapacity benefit who receive the high amount with no work requirement have go from 21 % 10 year ago to 65 % now — an astonishing increase . will the Secretary of State reassure I that follow the propose reform to the work capability assessment , it will work as intend , and that those who want to work , and seek work , be able to get the help they need to do so ? I thank my hon . friend for his typically astute question and for his advice in this area over a number of month . we have go out to consultation on the work capability assessment . we have not come to our conclusion on how to move forward , but right at the centre of that will be a strong belief that if people can work , with our support and encouragement , that be the good of all outcome . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the freeze on local housing allowance be have a devastating impact on housing provider . Scotland ' s Housing Minister write to the Secretary of State on 25 May to make that point and to make the case for restore it to the 30th percentile . why have he not reply ? will the Government use the autumn statement to raise it back to the 30th percentile ? I will certainly look into the letter to which the hon . Gentleman refer , but I assure he that LHA and other housing matter be under constant review , and form part of the discussion that my Department have with the Treasury from time to time . what step be the Minister take to help ensure that parent pay child maintenance and that the system be fair , particularly if there have be a difficult divorce or separation ? the Government be commit to ensure that parent meet their obligation to their child and that the CMS have robust enforcement power where parent refuse to pay child maintenance that they owe . the Child Support ( Enforcement ) Act 2023 receive Royal Assent in July , and will substantially and rightly speed up that process . due to a series of error make by the CMS , a constituent of mine have fail to receive child maintenance payment and be now on the brink of homelessness . I have be in contact with the DWP , but this case need to be expedite . will the Minister assure I that my constituent will receive their payment and will not be make homeless ? will she meet I to discuss this extremely important case ? the hon . Lady be right ; every child maintenance arrangement play a vital role in ensure that both parent play their part to support their child , whether they live with they or not . I be happy to take up that case urgently , on behalf of our noble Friend in the other place . pension auto - enrolment have be a great success , but it have lead to million of people get a new pension pot every time they change job . million of people now have multiple pension pot that they struggle to keep on top of , cause confusion and increase cost . do my hon . friend agree that employee should have the option to save into a workplace scheme of their choice , enable they to build up a pot for life — a pot to save in , not a pot to smoke ? automatic enrolment have transform saving across the country . I welcome my hon . friend ' s strong support and his passion in this area . the pot for life model offer attraction , with the potential to help engage individual with their pension saving if it maintain the gain achieve under automatic enrolment . I be sure he will discuss that with the future pension Minister . if life be so peachy for pensioner and if the Minister really be as passionate as he say he be about support pensioner , why do Independent Age say that , despite the long list he have give , the uptake in pension credit be not reach the people who need it the most ? why , in my constituency of Glasgow North East , be pensioner , who I be passionate about support , still miss out on several million every year ? will he use that passion to follow the Scottish Government and have a proper target benefit uptake strategy ? the hon . Lady will be aware that pension credit application be up 75 % . clearly , we be try to get that even high . there be a nationwide campaign , which include Scotland . accord to the late figure , there be 1 , 825 household receive pension credit in Banff and Buchan , but what more can we do as member of Parliament to encourage more pensioner to apply ? my hon . friend ' s campaign in his constituency have be a massive success and I thank he for that . it build on our nationwide campaign to support pension credit . there be much we can do to promote it locally , which I know my hon . friend be do , through our local council , Citizens Advice and voluntary organisation . do the Minister share my horror at rise homelessness among refugee who have be grant asylum because the timescale from decision to their be transition to mainstream benefit be a mere 28 day ? will she meet I so that we can work together to stop those who have be grant the right to a new life here be force to begin that new life in destitution on the street this winter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . other ID form be there to help claim soon . those grant refugee status have recourse to public fund and be able to apply for universal credit as soon as they can . DWP staff be instruct to consider all available evidence and work with the Home Office directly to confirm status where unsure . we be review our public guidance to ensure that all those get that status claim support as soon as possible . the cost of living payment from the Government be undoubtedly bring real benefit to my constituent , but what support be available for those who be not eligible for that specific support ? I thank my hon . friend for the opportunity to mention the household support fund , provide local authority with further funding which be discretionary for those most in need , particularly those ineligible for cost of living payment . the late year - long extension in England run to March next year . Buckinghamshire Council receive nearly £ 4 . 8 million in its late extension . the proposal in the work capability assessment activity and descriptor consultation will mean some claimant will lose £ 390 a month if they be reassess , push they even far into poverty . will the Minister or the Secretary of State please explain this huge financial impact on low - income people with disability or a serious health condition ? no final decision have be make . we have have the consultation and we will respond appropriately in the normal way . may we have specific detail on the help that jobcentre be give to armed force veteran , who must live with the consequence of decision make by government ? a very pertinent point after the weekend when we pay tribute in our local community and after what we see on the Elizabeth Tower . the DWP continue to work to identify universal credit claimant who be member of the armed force community , with 11 dedicated force champion lead and over 50 armed force champion across our jobcentre network work with spouse and partner , too . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . those Trussell Trust figure publish last week make grim reading . do the Secretary of State recognise that if working - age benefit be uprate by less than September ' s rate of inflation in April next year , there will inevitably be another big surge in food bank demand and destitution ? the right hon . Gentleman have raise an important point . I take the uprating process extremely seriously , and , as he will know , I look at a number of factor , include the effect on poverty . however , as he will also understand , I be not able to comment on a parliamentary process that have not yet be conclude . may I ask a question about auto - enrolment and pension ? what can the Secretary of State do to build on our good record by extend and increase the total amount that young people — I see that there be schoolchildren in the Public Gallery — who retire on define - contribution pension be likely to be able to save in their retirement ? there be two key point here . consolidation will make a massive difference , but more important be the transformation of workplace saving through auto - enrolment for young people . the figure have rise from below 40 % to well over 80 % , and it will get big as time move on . for those who suffer from endometriosis , Crohn ' s disease and colitis , incontinence be a daily challenge . for the purpose of the Government ' s propose change in the incontinence descriptor , what capability assessment have be do , and be there any consultation with those sufferer ? I hear the point that the hon . Lady have raise . we have , of course , have the consultation , and many view be express . we will now consider those view very carefully , and come forward as appropriate in the normal way . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I take advantage of a rather quiet news day to ask if there be any way in which I can place on record the appreciation of right hon . and hon . member for the wise advice , quiet efficiency and unfailing courtesy of Mr Peter Barratt , who recently leave the service of this House after more than 30 year ? I make a statement last week to thank Mr Barratt for all his service , so it have not go unnoticed and have certainly not be forget . debate on the Address [ 4th day ] Debate resume ( Order , 9 November ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . build an NHS fit for the future it be a pleasure to open this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , and to have the opportunity to speak about the long - term decision that the Government have be take for a healthy future for our country , for our national health service , and for our social care system . we be build our health and care system for today and for tomorrow . we be increase the capacity of the NHS and social care system , boost primary care and community care , invest in diagnostic and in treatment , build our NHS workforce with the long - term workforce plan and build our social care workforce with our 10 - year vision , put people at the heart of care . we be give people choice and control over their health and care , and invest in the facility and technology that need to be at the forefront of care and sustainable for the long term . we be drive reform to prevent ill health , join up health and care in integrate care system and deliver a shift towards prevention and proactive care , keep people out of hospital and enable they to live independently in their community . every day since last winter , we have be plan and prepare for the challenge that lie ahead this winter . the first ever NHS long - term workforce plan underpin our plan for the future of the NHS . it will double the number of medical training place , almost double the number of adult nursing place , and expand GP and ally health professional training number , give the NHS the staff it need for the future , create new role , build new training pathway and deliver a huge boost in diagnostic capacity . by the end of this year , we will have open 160 new community diagnostic centre . that be the big investment in MRI and CT scan capacity in NHS history . community diagnostic centre will bring care close to home , on high street , in supermarket car park and at football stadium . they have already do more than 5 million test and scan , get patient fast diagnosis for cancer , heart disease and other life - threaten condition . that be not all we be do to diagnose condition fast . the number of people receive blood pressure check at local pharmacy have more than double , reduce thousand of people ' s risk of suffer a heart attack or stroke . we be expand primary care , too . there be now over 30 , 000 more primary care professional work in GP practice than in March 2019 . we will deliver 50 million more GP appointment by the end of next year and we be invest more than £ 200 million in tech to end the 8 am rush for GP appointment . Pharmacy First will give people another choice , give pharmacist the power to prescribe treatment for seven common condition , free up as many as 10 million gp appointment , and as we put test result on to the NHS app , that will free up GP time again . that be also one of the way that this Government be give patient more choice and control . just as we be go to give people more choice in where they be treat when they be refer by their GP for specialist care , we have commit to give patient a choice between by five provider so that they be treat base on what matter to they — be that short waiting time , see a particular doctor or get care close to home . we have give patient who be wait more than 40 week the right to request treatment elsewhere , make well use of available capacity across the NHS and bring in more capacity from the independent sector . on patient choice , there be a clear dividing line between the Government and the opposition . the Leader of the opposition call the Welsh Government the blueprint for what Labour would do in power , yet in Wales , under a Labour Government , there be no legal right to patient choice , and patient there wait on average five week long for treatment than in England . we know where Labour ' s plan would lead . we just need to look at its Welsh blueprint : less choice for patient , long waiting list and more bureaucracy for doctor and nurse who just want to get on with the job . before the most disruptive industrial action in NHS history stall progress , we be reduce the long wait . last summer we hit our target to eliminate two - year wait for plan operation . this June we have virtually eliminate wait long than 18 month . we be spend more than £ 8 billion between 2022 and 2025 to increase elective activity , include open over 140 new surgical hub to deliver 2 million more operation . we be invest almost £ 6 billion in bed , equipment and technology , and this year we start prepare the NHS for winter soon than ever before . back in January , we publish our recovery plan for urgent and emergency care , set clear target to improve a & E waiting and ambulance response time and use £ 1 billion of dedicated funding to provide 5 , 000 more permanent staff bed and 800 new ambulance . we be see result . in October , average category 2 ambulance response time be more than 90 minute fast than in the same month last year . delay discharge have be come down and we have bring forward flu and covid vaccination , protect the most vulnerable from illness this winter and reduce the likelihood that they will need hospital treatment . a strong social care sector be also vital this winter and into the future . that be why we have make up to £ 8 billion available over this year and next to boost adult social care across the country . this be enable local authority to buy more care package and help more patient to leave hospital on time , together with 10 , 000 " hospital at home " bed which mean that patient can receive their care where they be most comfortable , recover in their own home with support from secondary care when they need it . through social prescribing , thousand of people up and down the country be benefit from activity such as read circle , choir group , walking and football . we be drive reform to the intermediate and proactive care framework , which set out how local system should support adult who need support after discharge , free up hospital capacity for those who need it most and give people more care as they need it — in their community , away from A & E and out of hospital . we be roll out technology that will give patient life - save treatment now and in the future . by the end of the year , every stroke network in England will have AI technology that can examine brain scan an hour fast , cut stroke patient ' risk of suffer long - term consequence by as much as two third . what be more , almost half of NHS acute trust have win a share of £ 21 million to invest in AI , accelerate the analysis of x - ray and CT scan for suspect lung cancer patient . that will save radiologist ' time , boost efficiency and cut waiting time . for the long - term , we be invest a furth £ 100 million to use AI to unlock treatment for disease that be incurable today , be they novel treatment for dementia or vaccine for cancer . can the Minister say something about the availability of new and specialist drug that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be not recommend ? will an effort be make to make these specialist drug , which in many instance be effectively regard as miracle cure , available for cystic fibrosis and cancer treatment , for example ? I understand what the hon . Gentleman be say , and I know how strongly family and patient feel about this . it be not for I , as a Minister , to step on the independence of NICE , which have a remit to take those decision . I be sure that the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , and other Ministers in the Department will continue to listen to the concern of family about access to those treatment . if we want to fully embrace preventive care , we must tackle the single big preventable cause of ill health , disability and death , which be smoke . unlike drink alcohol or eat fatty , salty or sugary food , there be no safe level of smoking . it cause almost one hospital admission every minute , one in four cancer death and 64 , 000 death a year . four in five smoker start by the time they be 20 , so the good thing we can do be to stop young people smoke in the first place . that be why this Government will automatically raise the smoking age by one year every year , so anyone who be 14 or young today will never be able to buy tobacco legally . increase the smoking age work . when it rise to 18 , smoking rate drop by almost a third in that age group . restricting choice be never easy , but this time it be the right thing to do . exist smoker will not be affect , but the next generation will be smoke - free , save thousand of life , reduce pressure on the NHS and build a bright future for our child . I hear what the Minister say about the Government ' s commitment to this policy , but can she explain why the Government be allow a free vote rather than whip back Benchers to vote for Government policy ? I be not go to stand here and explain whip policy , which be not my job as a Health Minister , but I be delighted to see the potential of this legislation . as with so many other worthwhile government policy , such as increase funding for the national health service , I would be delighted to see the right hon . Gentleman and other Opposition Members support this policy . we be also crack down on the alarming rise in vaping among child . there be no doubt that vaping be safe than smoke and be a terrific tool to help adult smoker quit , but , like member across the House , I be concerned that one in five child have try vaping , which can be hugely damaging to their health . the whole House know that no child should be use nicotine . the rise in youth vaping be no coincidence . disposable vape be consistently market at child and be available at pocket - money price , with many retailer ignore their duty not to sell they to young people . with more than 5 million be throw away every week , disposable vape be also damage our planet . we be act now to protect our child and our planet . we be look at ban child - friendly flavour , restrict colourful packaging and mandate that vape be display only behind the counter . we be also explore a ban or a restriction on disposable vape sale and empower local authority to dish out on - the - spot fine for sell vape to child . all these proposal be be develop with parent and teacher across the UK , and they will strike a balance between give adult smoker a choice to switch to vaping and prevent our child from take it up . I recognise the disappointment that the mental health Bill be not include in the King ' s Speech , but I can assure hon . member that this Government be commit to achieve genuine parity between mental health and physical health , improve the care of those detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 and bring forward the Bill when parliamentary time allow . we be not go to wait for legislation to make change . we will continue to pilot model of culturally appropriate advocacy , provide tailor support to hundred of people from ethnic minority to well understand their right if they be detain under the Mental Health Act . this come on top of the record investment and staff number we be put into mental health . since 2010 , the mental health workforce have grow by more than 20 % , and by March we will have invest over £ 2 billion more in mental health than four year ago , mean that 2 million more people , include more than 300 , 000 child and young people , will benefit from mental health support . one of the big issue raise by every school I visit in my constituency be mental health support , and I be disappointed not to see the mental health Bill in the King ' s Speech . will it be address in any other way ? where be it ? as I say a moment ago — let I remind the hon . Lady of this — we be not wait for legislation in order to bring forward mental health reform . that be why , for instance , we have already be roll out mental health support team in school . we be already ahead of schedule on that ; we be give a quarter of England ' s school and college child access to mental health support team a year ahead of schedule . in addition , thank to this Government , dormitory accommodation for mental health patient will soon become a thing of the past . it have be a pleasure to work with the new Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , and a huge honour to work with my hon . friend the Members for Colchester ( Will Quince ) and for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) as part of a Government take the long - term decision to build a health and care system for the future , one with more doctor , nurse , pharmacist , physio and care worker , well mental healthcare for adult and child , more proactive care in the community , great capacity , the new technology and more choice , where condition be diagnose quick or prevent altogether , thus help people to live long and healthy life . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the Minister on be the great survivor of the Department of Health and Social Care . she must surely be due a carriage clock or the long service medal by now . the only long - term decision for a bright future seem to be that she be still in her place , although she do not offer much of a bright future . more positively , I see far more than one nervous face on the Government Benches — I see lot of nervous face among those contemplate the next general election — but one be undoubtedly that of the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) . I congratulate he on his election and wish he well for his maiden speech , which I can confidently say will be the good speech we hear from those on the conservative Benches all day . at a time when patient can not get a doctor ' s appointment , family be struggle to pay the mortgage and major conflict be have an impact on our economy and security , the Prime Minister have spend the past five day decide whether to sack his Home Secretary for publicly disobey he , undermine the police and inflame tension on our street . finally , have have the sheer poor judgment to have appoint someone to such high office when she have already be force to resign for a serious national security leak , he have summon up the gut to sack the bad Home Secretary in history . yet , as we see , the merry - go - round of the conservative clown show continue . after 13 year , the Conservatives have run out of name at the bottom of the barrel , so they be start all over again . may I offer my sympathy to the Conservative Members who do not get the call from no . 10 today ? what kind of message do it send to their constituent that their own party leader can not find a suitable candidate for Foreign Secretary among the 350 conservative mp who sit in this House ? the arsonist have today return to the fire , because when it come to the national health service , Lord Cameron have quite a lot to answer for as the architect of austerity and the big top - down reorganisation in the history of the NHS — a £ 3 billion disaster that have lead straight to the big crisis in the history of the NHS . that be before we even begin to take into account his record of ushering in the " golden " age between Britain and China ; take 20 , 000 police officer off our street ; and have food bank Britain leave more than 1 million people dependent on charity to feed themselves and their family . that be Lord Cameron ' s legacy and as the current Prime Minister admit , " some mistake be make " . who be he try to kid when he tell we that this recycle Conservative Government offer the change our country need ? I would welcome the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) to her position , but of course she be not here this afternoon , have just be appoint early today . she be the fifth Secretary of State for Health and Social Care that I have face in this job in less than two year , although , to be fair , two of those appointment be the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) . the Government say they would make " long - term decision for a bright future " , but they can not even deliver a long - term Secretary of State for Health . we know where the Secretary of State be — she will be in the Department be brief about the challenge of the job and be bring up to speed . no doubt she and new Ministers will want to review the decision she be inherit and to start to think afresh about whether she want to proceed with those decision as they have be work through the machine . that be why it be so grossly irresponsible to change Ministers every five minute and constantly churn from one face to another , when it be clear to everyone but the Prime Minister that it be not just a change of face around the Cabinet table that we need , but a change of Government . as the Secretary of State sit in the Department be brief by her civil servant , I will help they out with the induction by offer she a primer on what she inherit : million of patient a month unable to get a GP appointment when they need one ; 24 hour in A & E — not just a television programme , but a reality for far too many ; ambulance not arrive on time , if they arrive at all ; the 12th month of the bad strike in the history of the National Health Service ; NHS dentistry in manage decline , to the point where people be force to pull out their own tooth — DIY dentistry in 21st century Britain ; a generation of young people who have pay the price for lockdown with their mental health , force to wait year for the support they need ; the long waiting list and the low patient satisfaction in history . that be the record of the Secretary of State ' s seven predecessor : failure , upon failure , upon failure , upon failure , upon failure , upon failure , upon failure . my hon . friend be absolutely right about that list of failure — it be shocking . I would like to add to the list that over 2 , 000 autistic people or people with learning disability be detain in inappropriate unit , when this Government promise over 10 year ago to close they all down . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . as I make progress through my speech I will come back to the breath - take complacency about mental health we hear from the Minister a moment ago . give the scale of the crisis and give that the Prime Minister have make fix waiting list one his five priority , hon . member might have expect something in the King ' s Speech to deal with it . instead , we get nothing on the NHS as it head into its most challenging winter yet and we get nothing on social care , just kick the can down the road and delay reform until after the election . there be nothing on dentistry , despite even conservative Back Benchers cry out for a rescue plan , and nothing on mental health , despite the conservative party commit to reform , not just in its last manifesto but in its last two manifesto . it be the long king ' s Speech in almost a decade , with the few Bills . do that not just sum up the modern conservative party ? plenty of slogan , but no solution . what we get be a Bill that will not come into effect until after the general election and a sack - the - nurse Bill . on the tobacco and vape Bill , the question be not whether Labour will support it , but whether the conservative party will support it . Government Members will remember that I first propose that smoke ban back in January . I say they will remember , because they make their feeling know in newspaper at the time . they call it " nanny state " and " an attack on ordinary people and their culture " . they accuse I of " health fascism " . well , they can now make their consider and nuanced view know to the new Secretary of State — I be sure she be look forward to receive they . it just demonstrate that where labour lead , the Government follow . the Prime Minister may be too weak to whip his Back Benchers to vote that crucial measure through , but on the Opposition Benches we will put country first and party second . labour mp will go through the voting Lobby and make sure that the legislation be pass , so that young people today be even less likely to smoke than they be to vote Conservative . I be afraid to disappoint the Government , but we will not be support the other Bill in the King ' s Speech that relate to health . Most people look at the crisis in the NHS and think it need more doctor and nurse . the conservative party look at the health service and conclude that we need to sack more doctor and nurse . the Government be say that public servant should be sack for fail to provide minimum standard on strike day , but the Government have not meet the four - hour A & E standard since 2015 ; they have not meet the standard for treatment within 18 week since 2016 ; and they be do so badly on meet cancer waiting time standard that they have simply get rid of the standard altogether . if the Conservatives be propose to sack doctor and nurse for fail to provide minimum service level , can we now sack Ministers for fail to meet minimum standard on non - strike day ? the new Health and Social Care Secretary have an opportunity to break with the past year . strike be cripple the NHS and they be put patient in harm ' s way . her predecessor may have think that they be a useful excuse for his failure , but they be , and be , a misery for patient and staff alike . the Government must stop the scapegoating of NHS staff , go into these negotiation with good faith , work at find a solution , and , finally , bring these strike to an end . there will be no progress on turn around our national health service until the Government make some progress . when sum up I hope the Minister will explain why action be not take on the Mental Health Act 2007 , because , I be afraid , the Minister ' s opening remark be entirely unsatisfactory . the Bill have go through Committee . it have cross - party support . it be ready to go , so where be it ? the treatment of people with learn disability and autism under the current Act shame our society . the disproportionate impact on black people , who be four time more likely to be sectioned than white people , be appalling . prison and police cell be no place for people with mental ill - health . surely that be not controversial in 2023 . it be , as the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , say , " a burn injustice " . I can not understand why the Government have break their promise to address that matter finally . it be long past time that mental health be treat with the same seriousness as physical health . labour will not only reform the Mental Health Act in our first King ' s Speech , but recruit thousand more mental health professional , provide hub in every community , and set up mental health support in every school , so that young people can get the help they need when they need it . [ interruption . ] the Minister say that they have do that . what planet be she live on ? this be the problem with these Ministers . even when the face change , the line remain the same . the Minister have not change , but she be still read from the same fail script . this be the problem with the conservative party . its message to the country be simple : " you have never have it so good . everything be go really well . the reason we be churn all the Ministers in our Cabinet be that they be do such a good job . it be job do and time to give someone else a chance . " I be afraid that that be why these conservative be so out of touch and will struggle at the next general election if their message to the country be that it have never have it so good . furthermore , unlike this Government , who crash the economy in the most reckless way , we will pay for our policy , make sure that they be fully cost and fully fund — in this case , by end tax break for private school and private equity fund manager . politic be about choice : labour choose the wellbeing of the many , not the interest of the few , and we will fight the election on those line any time . I say call the election tomorrow , because we be ready . when it come to dentistry , I should also say farewell to two former Ministers , the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) and for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) . as the hon . member for Harborough depart Government , I hope that he do not take with he his pledge to bring forward a recovery plan for NHS dental service . it have be seven month since he announce that such a plan would be forthcoming , yet it be now nowhere to be see . indeed , last week , integrate care system be give permission to raid their dentistry budget underspend and to remove the ringfence . that follow a pilot in Cornwall , trialle make NHS dentistry available only to child and the most vulnerable . it be the manage decline of NHS dentistry before our eye . if people want to know what the future of the NHS would look like with five more year of the Conservative Government , they need only look at the ghost of Christmas past in NHS dentistry . the Conservatives blame the previous Labour Government , but they have be in power for 13 year . in 2010 , we stand on a manifesto commit to reform the NHS dental contract . they have have 13 year to do it , and they have fail again and again , leave we in the situation that we be in today , with dickensian story of desperate people perform DIY dentistry and tooth decay be the most common cause of child age six to 10 be admit to hospital . it do not need to be this way . I say to the new Secretary of State and her team that she may not have a plan , but labour do , and she be more than welcome to nick it . we will deliver 700 , 000 more urgent appointment a year , recruit dentist to the area most in need , introduce supervised toothbrushing in school to prevent child ' s tooth from rot , and reform the NHS dental contract so that everyone who need an NHS dentist can get one — be that it ? the Minister say , " be that it ? " . it be 700 , 000 more NHS dentistry appointment than her Government be provide . it be ridiculous . the extent to which minister continue to parrot these ridiculous line be embarrassing . if they want to intervene , make my day . I be perfectly prepared to confront any Member with their own Government ' s record . of course , they do not want to defend the Government ' s record ; they have a hard enough time do that on the doorstep . turn back to his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech , there may not have be any Bills for the health service last week , but we do see the white flag being wave on the Prime Minister ' s pledge to cut waiting list . hospital receive a letter tell they to cut the number of operation and appointment they be aim to offer this year . at the same time , an extra funding pot be announce , so we be literally pay more and get less . no wonder the NHS be in such a state . no wonder waiting list have treble since 2010 . no wonder hundred of thousand more patient be wait for treatment today than when the Prime Minister first make his pledge . I want to make a plea for those 10 , 000 young people with cystic fibrosis , who have to take multiple medication and endure daily physiotherapy , blood test , x - ray , and hospital visit — wait on many occasion — as part of their normal routine just to stay well . the shadow Secretary of State and the Labour Opposition have give a commitment to endeavour to do well for the NHS . will he do well for those 10 , 000 young people who have cystic fibrosis ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for his intervention . I be deeply concerned about the situation face child with cystic fibrosis in particular , give that there be radically life - extend treatment available that offer the hope to those young people not just of long , happy , healthy life , but of reduce admission to hospital . it be right that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence make those judgment in a rigorous way , look at the evidence . I hope that it will be successful in bring down the price of those drug by negotiate with the pharmaceutical company to make sure that we can get affordable drug to family who desperately need they and be desperately anxious that the announcement they have read about mean short life for their child . no family should go through that agony , and I hope that a resolution can be find . the Government and the previous Health Secretary get into the habit of steal labour ' s policy — I say that not as a complaint , but as an invitation . it be clear that the Government do not have a plan to cut NHS waiting list , but we do : £ 1 . 1 billion will be pay straight into the pocket of hard - press NHS staff to deliver 2 million more appointment a year at evening and weekend , pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status , because patient need treatment more than the wealthy need a tax break — [ interruption . ] conservative Members groan when we mention charge non - dom their fair share , they groan when we talk about close private equity loophole and they groan when we talk about tax private school fairly . they do not groan when taxis go up on work people . they do not groan when benefit be cut for the poor people . we know who the Conservatives be in it for . they be in it for the few ; we champion the interest of the many . that be the labour difference . we believe strongly that people who live or work in Britain should pay their taxis here too . there be still time for the new Secretary of State to lobby the Chancellor ahead of the autumn statement . this genuinely be an oven - ready plan , unlike some of the plan we have hear from the Conservatives , and I encourage the new Secretary of State to nick it . after 13 year , we have an nhs that get to people too late . we have a hospital - base system gear towards late - stage diagnosis and treatment , which deliver poor outcome at great cost . we have an analogue system in a digital age . we have a sickness service , not a health service , with too many life hamper by preventable illness and too many life lose to the big killer . it could not be clear : the long we give the Conservatives in power , the long patient will wait . this be an empty king ' s Speech from a Government who have run out of road , run out of steam and run out of idea ; a conservative party too busy tear itself apart to govern the country ; a Prime Minister who can not decide whether it be time for a change or to go back to year zero . the future of the NHS after another five year of the Tories be emerge before our eye : a two - tier health service , where those who can afford it go private , and those who can not are leave wait behind — our NHS reduce to a poor service for poor people ; our country view as the sick man of Europe . it do not have to be that way . the Prime Minister be right when he say , " it ' s time for a change " , but only Labour can deliver it . labour have a different vision for our country in which no one fear ill health or old age ; people have power , choice and control over their own health and care ; the place people be bear , or the wealth they be bear into , do not determine how long they will live or how happy their life will be ; patient benefit from the bright mind develop cutting - edge treatment and technology ; and child bear in Britain today become the healthy generation that ever live . only Labour have a plan to get the NHS back on its foot and make that vision a reality : a plan to cut waiting list , deliver 2 million more appointment a year ; a rescue plan for NHS dentistry , deliver 700 , 000 more appointment , recruiting dentist to the area most in need , introduce toothbrushing for three to five - year - old in school and have an nhs dentist for all who need one ; a plan to double the number of scanner so that patient be diagnose early ; a plan to recover our nation ' s mental health from the damage of lockdown ; a plan to cut red tape that tie up GPs ' time , so that we can bring back the family doctor ; a plan for the big expansion of NHS staff in history — a plan so good that the Government adopt it and give we a head start ; and a plan to reform the NHS to make it fit for the future . to those who say that that can not be do and that thing can not be well , I say this : the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . we do it before and we will do it again . it be not a change of face we need but a change of Government . it be time to call a general election and give the british people the choice : more of the same with the Conservatives or a fresh start with Labour . call a general election now , so that Labour can give Britain its future back . we come now to a maiden speech , so there will be no interruption . I call Steve Tuckwell . thank you , Mr Speaker , for call I to deliver my maiden speech . many word have be dedicate to this summer ' s by - election campaign and the subsequent result in Uxbridge and South Ruislip , so I hope you will allow I to add just a few more word base on my own experience , rather than the conjecture offer by many commentator . let I begin with ULEZ — the ultra low emission zone — and its expansion across outer London . it will come as no surprise to anyone that this be not the first time I have mention those four letter in this Chamber . even though the extended charge zone have now come into being , I stand here — no long the local candidate , but the Member of Parliament — still determined to fight the Mayor of London ' s money grab and reduce the burden place on my resident and local business . for I , however , the by - election be about much more than ULEZ and its unnecessary expansion . it be about a variety of local issue , such as secure a new hospital , keep Uxbridge police station open , provide further support for childcare place , and protect our green space for future generation . it be a by - election campaign fight on multiple local issue of substance . so , rather than dwell on ULEZ , may I suggest that what also drive resident to the poll be the motivation to have an MP who understand the need of the community , who appreciate the complexity of the community , and who be truly embed in the community ? since 2018 , I have serve as a local councillor for the London Borough of Hillingdon . Hillingdon Council be well respected , and in some case even envy , for its consistent year in , year out performance in core service that resident expect , be they weekly waste collection , which be quite rare these day ; refurbishing library , not close they ; and be one of the green borough in London , with 67 green flag award park and open space . all of this and more be achieve through Hillingdon Council ' s continual focus on sound financial management that put resident first . I pay tribute to the leader of Hillingdon Council , Councillor Ian Edwards , and his executive cabinet , as well as Sir Ray Puddifoot — the former leader for over two decade — my fellow councillor , both past and present , and of course the officer team and frontline team across all department who deliver great service for their resident and my constituent . during the by - election , Uxbridge and South Ruislip see intense campaigning , with a medium frenzy and a whopping 17 candidate , but be the centre of attention be not something new for my constituency . Uxbridge be home to the Battle of Britain Bunker — one of the most popular heritage destination in my constituency for visitor near and far . the bunker play a key part in the allied defensive network across Britain during the second world war , and it be from that bunker that no . 11 Fighter Command be control . no . 11 Fighter Command , base in Uxbridge , play a crucial role in secure victory during the battle of Britain . indeed , it be at the entrance to the bunker that Winston Churchill first utter his famous word , " never in the field of human conflict be so much owe by so many to so few . " he repeat those profound word in this very Chamber four day later , on 20 August 1940 . a bunker mentality be right for that time , but now be not that time . this be a time not to hunker down and hide away , but to face the many complex challenge that face we here in the UK and across the globe . the Prime Minister , the Government and my party be quite rightly look at the long term , and have outline clear and decisive policy that be design to tackle the challenge we face . they be not easy decision , but decision that build on the long - term horizon , rather than easy short - termism that have no foundation or substance . I be elect to stand up for the interest of my constituent . I be bear and raise in the constituency that I now have the privilege of serve as an MP . a number of year ago — probably a few more than I would care to admit — I be bear at Hillingdon Hospital . the hospital hold a special place in my heart : my child be bear there , and there have be plenty of visit and treatment for myself and my family over the year . I pay tribute to the entire team at Hillingdon Hospital , past and present , as they continue to demonstrate exceptional professionalism and dedication to the surround community . much have be say about the condition of our hospital , some of it rather harsh and sensationalist in the heat of by - election campaigning . with that in mind , I be incredibly proud of the work that have be complete as part of the delivery of a new hospital for Hillingdon . thank to the combined effort of all involve , include the local NHS trust and Hillingdon Council , work have begin on deliver that new hospital . I pay a specific tribute to my predecessor , Boris Johnson , for his tireless effort in support of Hillingdon Hospital during his time as MP for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . he campaign continuously for the funding to be secure and for the project to become a reality . that be one of many local campaign that Boris champion across the constituency , and I thank he for his dedication in support many business , charity and community group . while develop a new hospital be a large and complex project , I look forward to work with the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that we can deliver long - term positive health outcome and a state - of - the - art new hospital for my constituent . to be stand here among these historic and world - famous green Benches be a great honour . it be incredibly humble to follow in the footstep of John Randall , who back in 1997 also become MP for Uxbridge as a result of a by - election . I be incredibly thankful for his advice and support on my journey to become an MP , and I hope to achieve as much as he do when he represent Uxbridge and South Ruislip . to be the Member of Parliament for Uxbridge and South Ruislip — the place where I be raise , where I have work and where I live — represent friend , neighbour and stranger alike be a true honour . immediately after the by - election , my work as an MP start : meet some of the many faith and cultural group that make Uxbridge and South Ruislip such a vibrant place to live , and visit many local business that help keep resident in good , decent job and contribute to keep our high street bustle . I thank the Hillingdon chamber of commerce for its engagement so early on . it be clear that we share the goal of support our business and keep our community thrive , as well as encourage other business to set their root in our local economy . there be some fantastic business from small , home - base entrepreneur and medium - sized exciting business such as Mills Ltd in Cowley , which be support gigabit infrastructure through the supply of essential tool and equipment , to a number of large national and international business such as Coca - Cola , Hertz and Brunel University , which all create employment opportunity for local people . one of my priority for Uxbridge and South Ruislip be to support business and promote our high street . I be look forward to take this far through building on the work this Government have already do to protect business against the pressure of the cost of living . this include a tax cut for 38 , 000 british pub early this year through the Brexit pub guarantee , and to ensure that our fantastic local pub — like my local , the Middlesex Arms in South Ruislip — remain at the centre of the community they have help for many year . [ interruption . ] a pint tonight , yes ! as I have already mention , much have be write about the by - election campaign . even though local issue ultimately win over attempt to frame it with a national outlook , I want to take this opportunity to declare that I will be a Member of Parliament for all resident regardless of how or if they vote . I be incredibly proud of Uxbridge and South Ruislip and its civic pride from our active community - focus resident ' and volunteer group to our dynamic , hard - work charity such as the Daniella Logun Foundation , which do amazing work to help child and their family with brain tumour and in raise awareness of childhood cancer . as I have already say , we be a truly vibrant community , and through my priority — they include a new Hillingdon hospital , secure even more police officer , protect our green space , deliver improve special need provision , support local business and improve our high street — I stand here ready and determined to do all I can as a Member of Parliament to ensure that my community remain a great place to live , a great place to raise a family , a great place to work and a great place to grow to grow old in . Mr Speaker , as I be sure you be aware , old habit die hard , so as a former postie , I will continue to deliver for the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip . thank you . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . it be of course an absolute pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) . he make a very compelling maiden speech , although maybe not quite as compelling for I as a nationalist follow he . it be always a pleasure to rise on behalf of my party in a debate centre on our NHS . few know more about the NHS than the man who contribute to its present - day financial struggle , the new Foreign Secretary , who obviously be not here because he be not elect to this place . it be incredibly unfortunate that this big set - piece event in the parliamentary calendar do nothing to address the increase privatisation in NHS England . perhaps that be something we can look forward to be address in the autumn statement , but for now I will summarise the issue that be overlook in the King ' s Speech . privatisation be creep in through the back door in NHS England , and while health be devolve and we have our own NHS in Scotland , this have dire consequence for our NHS in Scotland through Barnett consequential . the reality be that money spend by the British Government on England ' s NHS dictate how much the Scottish Government have to spend on our NHS up the road . despite cut to Barnett consequential for our NHS in Scotland , the Scottish Government be continue to invest in new and innovative way to reduce health inequality and to protect our NHS for future generation . my colleague in the Scottish Parliament , the MSP for North East Fife , Willie Rennie , have raise the issue of a £ 10 . 9 million funding shortfall in NHS Fife , and that be before we see the winter surge . do the hon . Member agree that , although we might see high spending in Scotland , there be failure in how the SNP be deliver for our health service there ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , but I would say that there be definitely structural funding issue because of be tie to this financial Union , which be the point I be just about to make . I hope she recognise that , and will maybe reflect on the fact that be part of this Union do have dire consequence . order . I remind the hon . Lady that she have to face forward . the First Minister ' s pledge of £ 300 million to cut NHS wait time be an example of the fantastic work that the SNP Scottish Government be do . there will be 100 , 000 few patient on our NHS wait list come 2026 , because of that incredible investment . despite the year - on - year reduction in Barnett consequential for health , NHS Scotland staff remain the well pay across these isle . what do that look like in practice ? a band 2 porter in Scotland earn £ 2 , 980 more a year than their counterpart in England , and a band 5 nurse in Scotland earn £ 3 , 080 more a year than their counterpart in England . this be all despite the increase privatisation in NHS England . under the SNP , the scottish NHS fare much well than its counterpart across these isle , but under the current funding structure only the UK Government can deliver the funding necessary to get the NHS back on its foot . down here , the Treasury give money to private company to provide a service for NHS England . that mean less capital investment into NHS England , which mean less money for the Scottish Government to spend on NHS Scotland . I have always find the monarch ' s speech quite baffle , but particularly so over the past few year , with so many broken promise and so many shallow , unfulfilled commitment . I think of promise to ban conversion therapy , commitment to reach net zero and pledge for a mental health Bill . the Government think my party do not respect this place , yet it be they who make a mockery of it by not fulfil the policy agenda that they set for themselves . perhaps this threadbare King ' s Speech be perfect for they : less to fail on . I thank the hon . Lady for her empower speech . one issue with Barnett consequential be that although Scotland perhaps be not get its full complement , Wales do , and I be grateful that it do , but Northern Ireland do not . we have ask for the Barnett consequential for Northern Ireland to be look at and review to enable we to be at the same level as Wales ; perhaps the hon . Lady would like to see that for Scotland . I absolutely would like to see the same for Scotland . the Barnett consequential system in itself be quite frustrating , because we do not see the full complement we should get because of how the british Government exercise spending decision . I would absolutely like to see a different funding structure exercise down here . the way it be speak about be complicated in itself , and a bit of truth around that would be useful . I have be struggle with the image of the King deliver his speech from his gild throne while innocent people in Palestine be die . it feel a ridiculous thing for this Parliament to have be focus on . we be witness the big humanitarian crisis that many , if not most of we , have ever see . it bear witness to how soulless this British Government truly be . child be die , refugee camp be be bomb and hospital be be destroy . for each second that member throughout this House fail to call for a ceasefire , more innocent people be die in Gaza . not just a humanitarian pause but a ceasefire be necessary . Riham Jafari of ActionAid Palestine so aptly describe the difference between a humanitarian pause and a ceasefire : " what use be a four - hour pause each day to hand community bread in the morning before they be bomb in the afternoon ? " innocent man , woman and child in Palestine continue to die . I make a plea to colleague on both side of the House : walk through the Lobby with we on Wednesday night to vote for a ceasefire . they need you to show leadership . we need to show leadership and vote for the SNP ' s common - sense humanitarian amendment to the humble address . in preparation for this debate , I find myself reflect on the word inscribe on the mace of the Scottish Parliament : " Wisdom , Justice , Compassion and Integrity " . the mace be not just about tradition , and it be not a bit of a pantomime like in this Parliament . in Holyrood , the mace be there to signify the relationship between the people , the Parliament and the land . no institution well represent the link between the people and the state than our precious nhs , but be tie to this financial Union mean that our NHS be suffer terribly . we have workforce shortage , medication shortage and equipment shortage — shortage , shortage , shortage . I get into politic because of the rampant health inequality I see in my part of the world when I take unwell as a teenager . we all know health outcome be impact , whether directly or indirectly , by the quality of our support network . I see first - hand the effect of poverty on outcome . that be why I be so proud that our SNP Scottish Government implement the young patient family fund , which help to prevent income from be a barrier for family be able to support a young person through ill health . Scotland be lead the way in transform life and outcome with that fund . it would have be nice to see some flicker of hope and progress weave through the King ' s Speech , but give the British Government ' s lack of willingness to learn from good practice elsewhere on these isle , it be relatively unsurprising not to see it . the pomp and pageantry of this place , its tradition and its reactionary main party seem to I to be a distraction from the real work and hard conversation that neither of the two main party want to have . instead , we have a celebration of the dance we call debate in this place . I will now reflect again on the word inscribe on the Mace of the Scottish Parliament . let we take a look at each and see whether they apply to the British Government . I will start with the wisdom that be be show — or not show — in this place where Brexit be force through , despite the broken promise it be build on . what have come with that wise decision endorse by both the Government and the Labour party ? we have severe medicine shortage , mean that people be unable to access vital treatment such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder drug and hormone replacement therapy , as well as a shortage of staff to supply and distribute they . that oven - ready Brexit deal that the public be promise be lack one key ingredient : wisdom . my constituent in East Dunbartonshire apply wisdom in advance when they overwhelmingly vote to remain within the European Union , but the structure of the Union mean that their voice be ignore . move on to justice , where be the justice in there be so many material change of circumstance since the 2014 referendum , while the british Government continue to deny the people of Scotland the right to choose our own future ? some might say that that be an injustice . move on to compassion , there be many way in which I could question the compassion of this place , but there be nothing more timely or truly horrific than the ongoing attack on civilian in Gaza . we be witness the big humanitarian crisis many of we have see in our lifetime , and this place have rightfully express compassion for those kill and suffer in Israel , yet the compassion be lack for those child in Gaza . each day that this place fail to unite behind a ceasefire , child die . where be the compassion for those child ? would the hon . member get behind a unilateral or a bilateral ceasefire ? I would get behind a ceasefire . we be talk about a ceasefire . with both side stop . yes , with both side stop . the hostage should be return to Israel and we should see a ceasefire . I think that be relatively straightforward , be it not ? finally , move on to integrity , integrity should be the foundation of politic . have trust that manifesto will be implement and that policy agenda , such as the King ' s Speech , will be take through Parliament in the form of legislation be the bare minimum that folk at home expect . instead , the british Government have throw integrity out the window . it will be interesting to see , over the next parliamentary year , how much of what be in the King ' s Speech be actually deliver . I receive a desperate appeal from the Linda Norgrove Foundation — it be name for a brave british aid worker murder by the Taliban — for the UK Government to reopen the afghan citizen relocation and resettlement scheme to allow 20 female afghan medical student to come to Scotland specifically to complete their study . it be now clear that the Taliban will never reopen school and university to girl . these young woman be now prisoner in their own home , unable to show their face in public or to leave the house without a male guardian . many live with the terrifying threat of force marriage . the Linda Norgrove Foundation will pay for they to get here , and the Scottish Government have readily agree to waive their tuition fee so that they can finish their study . the only thing stop these woman from find sanctuary in the UK be the british Government ' s refusal to open the afghan citizen relocation and resettlement scheme and create a legal pathway for they to do so . that simple change would save 20 incredible woman from brutal oppression at no cost to the British Government at a time when our NHS be also in desperate need of qualified doctor . I can not think of a reason , other than performative cruelty , why the Government would withhold that permission . I will once again say these word that be so sorely lack down here : wisdom , justice , compassion and integrity . what could not be clear be that Scotland ' s NHS be not safe while we be tie to the financial structure of Westminster . break Brexit Britain be damage our precious NHS through workforce shortage , equipment shortage and medication shortage . I look forward to a day when an independent Scotland rejoin the European Union , leave break Brexit Britain behind . rise — order . as you can see , there be a lot of interest in the debate . we will try to proceed without a time limit , but I will give an indicative amount . if member do not go wildly over eight minute , we should get everybody in . let we give that a go to begin with . waiting list be rightly one of the Government ' s top priority . to the good of my knowledge , Mr Deputy Speaker , you could not perform a knee replacement — one of the most wait - for operation — and if I be to give you £ 1 billion , I suspect that you would still be unable to do so . too often , debate focus on money and how much have be put into the NHS — the Government have put record amount into the NHS — but it be about more than money ; it be about people . on this , the 75th year since the NHS be found , the workforce plan be a milestone in the NHS ' s history , and one that I be very pleased to see . it be an essential step towards create a more productive health service where we can expand training and recruitment while retain the amazing pool of talent that we have in the NHS . my constituent will be particularly pleased to see the plan to increase the number of dentistry student by 40 % , because many be struggle , as have be say , to see dentist . we will also double the number of GP training place by 2031 , which be welcome . these change will take time , because doctor take a long time to train . one of the first thing that the Conservative Government do be to put in place step to open the new Lincoln medical school . it have open and be train doctor , and it will not be long before the first new doctor will graduate , which be excellent news for my constituent . I be also pleased for my constituent that we have get a new diagnostic centre opening in Grantham , which will accelerate patient ' diagnosis and treatment . I have be pleased to hear in the last few day about the streamlining of process for clinical trial . that will help we to find the new treatment and diagnosis that will be the miracle cure . the Health and Social Care Committee recently visit Singapore , where we meet a professor who have identify the benefit of chimeric antigen receptor T - cell therapy and treat Oscar , the little boy from Worcester whom many of we will remember from the news . thankfully , he have recover from his leukaemia . such groundbreaking , world - beat discovery will be make only if we make it easy to conduct safe clinical trial . however , we also need to look at how we incentivise people to do they . the NHS have advertise role for equality and diversity staff at more than £ 90 , 000 , yet there be currently an advert for a professor of synthetic biology at Cambridge University — they will lead global clinical research — for a little over £ 67 , 000 . we need to look at how the state value the people who will bring about world - lead discovery and how it can support they in their quest so that our bright child will want to do that not just through moral desire but , essentially , to turn their a - level into cash . the NHS have be cripple by strike this year , and more than 1 million appointment have be cancel . that be not help with waiting list , and patient be be leave to suffer . cancer diagnosis be be delay , and patient ' condition , when they be in pain , be be leave unrelieved . as a paediatrician , I understand the desire for well working condition and more money , but I can not understand morally the desire to leave patient behind in order to achieve that . morally , I do not agree with the strike and I support the Government ' s prioritise patient and their commitment to maintain minimum service level during industrial action . do my hon . friend agree that people often forget about the huge amount of pension right quite understandably provide to people in public service ? junior doctor who be continue their action do not take account of the huge benefit that they will accrue in later life . I should mention that I have an NHS pension , but my right hon . friend be right . the Government take a big step early this year to improve pension , by change the tax regime to make it easy for more senior doctor to remain at work and not feel they have to give it up because of punitive tax level . ultimately , doctor be pay well — they could be pay well , of course — but for I it be a moral question : morally , I do not think it be right to leave patient in order to advocate for more money . I be pleased by the step that the Government be take to crack down on tobacco product . the proposal will not please everyone , but it show the Government ' s boldness and earnestness when address public health issue . prevention be well — and usually far cheap — than cure . a preventive approach to smoking will reduce the burden on our healthcare system and improve people ' s quality of life . colleague will not be surprised to hear that I be especially pleased by the Government ' s commitment to restrict the sale and marketing of vape to child . I be glad that the Government have include some of my proposal in their upcoming consultation on vaping , include regulate their flavour , branding and visibility in shop , as well as give local authority the power to issue on - the - spot fine for those sell they to child . I be glad that the Government be consult on ban the sale of disposable e - cigarette , which time and again have be the vape of choice for child . I be shock by figure publish last year that find that 1 . 3 million vape be throw away every week in the UK . subsequent figure release in September show that , staggeringly , in the space of just one year that number have more than triple to 5 million every week . those disposable vape would fill this Chamber from top to bottom twice over every single week — heaven forbid , Mr Deputy Speaker . that be the scale of the problem we be deal with . the UK risk fall behind if it do not seize the agenda quickly . I eagerly await the result of the Government ' s consultation , as I know many colleague do . sometimes , it can be difficult to find issue on which figure from across the political spectrum be strongly align , but I be confident that the House will unite behind the Government ' s recent proposal on vaping . my hon . friend be make some compelling point . it strike I that disposable vape be often available at the point of sale where we use to find thing such as chew gum and packet of Polo mint . that make it very easy for child to access they . do she think that regulating point - of - sale product be a massive tool to tackle the problem ? let we remember that establish tobacco company have to have their multi - use vape on sale behind the screen that tobacco be sell behind . I completely agree that put vape where child can see they make they more available and make child want they more . that be why they need to be in plain colour and flavour and out of the sight and reach of child . my understanding be that that be part of the Government ' s consultation , and I hope they legislate and make regulation as soon as they can . overall , the King ' s Speech be a good one , and I be proud to support it . first , I congratulate the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) on make his maiden speech . have mention his local boozer , he will no doubt be forever welcome there with open arm . I welcome he to his place and thank he for his speech . I note the historic event last week of the King make his first Gracious Address as sovereign . it be just a pity that the speech write for he by the Government be so thin , with little content and little vision . it be a clear demonstration that the Government not only be run out of steam , but have none leave at all . People know that I have campaign on mental health for many year . it be 11 year since the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) and I speak , in a mental health debate , about our own mental health . I think attitude have change for the well over that period , and it have clearly move up the political agenda . I be therefore , like a lot of campaigner and professional , very disappointed that the reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 be drop from the King ' s Speech . the Act be outdate and archaic in part , and its language be more fitting to the victorian era . as my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) say , in some case it be lead to people with learn difficulty and autism be lock in the system for many year , without any voice to raise their plight . the Minister , in her address , seem to dismiss that as though it be somehow not important , but deprive people of their liberty be a very serious thing . to deprive somebody of their liberty , you have to ensure that they not only have right , but care . my concern about the Mental Health Act relate to those with autism and learning disability , some of whom have be lock in the system for year without a strong advocate . there be people in the criminal justice system lock into a Kafkaesque system that we have create . the Minister more or less throw that aside . I be sorry , but if you be a black teenager in the criminal justice system or an adult with learn difficulty , the system need reform and it need reform now . it be not as though the Government start with a blank sheet of paper . we have Sir Simon wessely ' s excellent review in 2018 . the Government make a manifesto commitment in 2019 to bring forward legislation . there be a draft Bill last year and a Joint Committee to scrutinise it . one would have think it be a clear priority for the Government to move the issue up the political agenda , but what we have have from the Department of Health and Social Care be not just no Bill , but inaction . the Joint Committee spend a great deal of time look at the Bill and put forward 36 recommendation . ten month later and they have not yet even be answer by the Government . this be not just the Government abandon the Bill and a broken conservative party manifesto promise ; it be a dereliction of duty . politic be about priority and , for I , this be a priority . some 50 , 000 people a year be section under the Mental Health Act . for some , I accept , it be life change . for other , however , it lead to a system that they get into and can not get out of . it be right to reform the Act and it be absolutely shocking that that be not in the King ' s Speech . it will certainly be a commitment for the next Labour Government . I and many on the Labour Benches will make sure it be a commitment . the Minister , in her gatling gun approach to her speech , be more or less say that it do not matter because everything else be okay in mental health . I be sorry , but it be not . in April 2022 we have , with much fanfare , the 10 - year mental health and wellbeing plan . over 5 , 200 individual and mental health charity respond to a consultation , only to find out in January this year that it have be completely scrap . the Minister talk about mental health be a priority , but the fact do not support that . unless we have a proper join - up approach to mental health , we will not get on top of the issue of individual who need help , or have a system fit for a modern country such as the UK . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on raise this matter . throughout my time in the House he have speak up significantly for those with mental health issue , and he understand the subject very well . one group who seem to fall below the radar be veteran . in Northern Ireland , a large number of people who have serve in the force suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that those veteran who be suffer greatly must be a priority in address mental health ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . as a former veteran Minister , I do a lot about veteran mental health . we now have a disjoint system with a veteran Minister who , in trumpian style , say that everything be perfect and everything be work , when it be clearly not . we need to ensure that veteran receive the good mental health care in their local area , and that mean adopt a joint approach . if we be to get on top of the nation ' s mental health , that must be do through a public health approach . it must be do at local level , and it must ensure that public health take a lead . Less than 2 % of the mental health budget be spend on preventive work , which need to be do not just in school but in community generally . fortunately for my constituency , a new initiative have be launch in Chester - le - Street where GPs and local community group divert people from mental health service by secure they the help they need , and I congratulate those who be involve . tobacco affect mental health , with 50 % high smoking rate among those with a mental illness and two - third high death rate , so I support the movement for a smoke - free generation , although I note that the Government will not ask their Back Benchers to support the policy because they know they will not receive it . action also need to be take on illegal sale of counterfeit tobacco , but that can not be do in the present circumstance , because the number of local trading standard officer have be cut by 52 % since 2009 . we need to ensure that more money be put into trading standard and policing . the Government keep say how wonderful it be that we have extra policing , but in fact County Durham have 140 few police officer than it have in 2010 . it be important for we to have the enforcement side , because without that some people will be drive into the illegal tobacco market , but we can not see it as a silver bullet that will justify cut in public health budget . we need continue , dedicated local smoking cessation programme , because without they we will not make the stride that we want to make . I shall say something on two other issue . first , on leasehold reform , let we look at the fact , as oppose to what the Government be say . the Government have give the impression that this reform will affect every leaseholder , but it will not ; it will apply only to new building . there be no roll - out of the commonhold for new flat , which constitute the majority of leasehold property . this outdated feudal system need to change . there will be a great many disappointed people who , have assume they would suddenly be give more right , then find otherwise . let we be honest : this have be fuel by the Government ' s right to buy scheme , which be be use by Persimmon and other big house builder as a way of make extra cash , mainly at the expense of the taxpayer and those poor individual . secondly , on transport , I have hear the reference to the Network North plan . I will not dwell on it too much , because I do not believe anything in it . we know that 85 % of it have already be announce , but some of those announcement have be withdraw very quickly . in the north - east , for example , the Government argue that the Leamside line , which would help my constituency of North Durham , would be reopen , only for that announcement to be withdraw within 24 hour . I doubt that many of these project will see fruition . with my role on the Intelligence and Security Committee , I welcome the investigatory power reform , which will be important in ensure that the right safeguard be in place for the way our security service collect bulk datum , and in bring some of the oversight up to date . it be also important that the Government work closely with the ISC — something they do not do on the National Security Bill that go through in the last Parliament . we be still wait for a response to some of our argument around how the ISC be run . this legislation will be important to ensure that we give our security service the necessary power to protect we all , and to ensure that we get the proper oversight . this will be the last king ' s Speech before the general election . it be half - hearted and full of gimmick that be design to be eye - catch , but it have no long - term plan for the future of our country . that be the disappointing thing , and that will only change when we get a change of Government at the next general election . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) on a superb election victory and on a great speech from a real local champion . that result show how important it be for the Government and the Mayor of London not to get ahead of public opinion on green energy . we all want more green energy but it must be economically drive and we must take the general public with we . I be afraid that the Mayor of London , certainly in outer London , have not take the public with he . in Lincolnshire we have an aspect of green energy that affect my constituency , with 10 , 000 acre ring Gainsborough to be put under solar panel . that will involve a huge loss of agricultural land , enough to feed the city of Lincoln every year . we all want solar panel as long as it be proportionate , but 10 , 000 acre ring one small town in Lincolnshire be overdevelopment . the advantage of the King ' s Speech debate be that we can range quite widely , and in the few minute I have , I shall raise a few general point . we have a new Foreign Secretary , a new Home Secretary and a new Health Secretary . the challenge face the Foreign Secretary be enormous , both in the middle east and in Ukraine . on the early intervention , I be all in favour of a ceasefire , but it must be by both side , and there be no intimation yet that if Israel be to announce a ceasefire , Hamas would follow suit . if Hamas be now prepared to commit themselves to a permanent ceasefire with Israel and respect the right of israeli citizen to live in peace and tranquillity , I be sure we can have a negotiation on that basis , but I do not see that happen . we also need to have a tone of compassion for the palestinian people . the palestinian people be not Hamas . I be quite impressed by what President Macron be say on this . the israeli Government have the right to defend themselves , but it must be in proportion , and I think we be all devastate and concerned about the plight of woman , child and baby in Gaza . the israeli Government have to deal with this issue in a proportionate way . on Ukraine , I do not suggest a ceasefire , because that would simply benefit President Putin , but if there be a stalemate , I be not sure that we can go on think that we can solve the problem by pour in more and more weaponry . eventually there will have to be some sort of settlement . this be a debate primarily about the NHS . we in Lincolnshire suffer from a poorly perform NHS . I have constituent — people of my age — who have pay taxis all their life and who suddenly fall ill , go to A & E in Lincoln and have to stay there for 24 hour , often in pain and difficulty . More and more doctor be insist that people who want an appointment have to go online , and few and few doctor be provide prompt face - to - face service . the NHS simply can not continue as it be . we have a new Health Secretary and , as I have say before , I think we need fundamental reform . frankly , our counterpart on the continent , in France , Italy and Germany , get a much well service . we have to look at some sort of social insurance system by which people who pay taxis all their life be entitle to treatment within a certain period and , if they do not receive that treatment , the state will assist they to go private . I have make the point many time that a previous Conservative Government give tax relief for private health insurance . this government have not progress that idea , which I do not think would be a wildly popular one , but we have to do something . the NHS be consume an ever - large proportion of the national budget and deliver a bad and bad service . over the next 12 month up to the general election , I hope the new Health Secretary will think big idea to try to give people , particularly those of pensionable age , some right to the healthcare that they have pay for all their life and that they do not get at present . have more child brush their tooth at school under a putative Labour Government will not solve the problem ; it be far great than that . of course , we also have a new Home Secretary , who have an enormous challenge . I have confidence that he will speak up for Conservative Britain and conservative voter who be deeply unhappy about the very high level of both legal and illegal migration . it be completely unsustainable to carry on with the current net migration rate of some 600 , 000 people a year , which be overwhelm our service , the NHS , housing and everything else . it be say that we need these people to work in the NHS or in care home , but we need to provide proper wage so that people who already live in Britain want to work in the NHS or in care service . we should not allow employer to think they can solve their problem by constantly import labour from abroad . there be a simple solution to help solve this problem . the average wage in the UK be about £ 34 , 000 a year and , at the moment , a person can enter this country for a job pay £ 26 , 000 a year . if we say that migrant have to earn a minimum of , say , £ 34 , 000 a year , we would bring in high - quality staff and not undercut our own indigenous labour . do my right hon . friend agree that we have a structural problem because of our country ' s age population , and that we need to have more child in this country so that we meet our replacement rate for the first time since the 1970 ? I have make a personal contribution by have six child . they be all now in their 20 and 30 , and they be find it unbelievably difficult to get on the housing ladder . the Government really have to solve this problem . we can not just fill this country with more and more people so that our young people can not get on the housing ladder and can not find a place to rent . I be a bit dubious about reform how landlord can evict tenant . I just want supply - side reform to ensure there be more housing come on to the market for young people to rent . I want the Government to be far more proactive on build house , if necessary in grey area on the green belt . that might not be universally popular with my colleague , but we certainly have plenty of room in Lincolnshire . if people want to come up to Lincolnshire and build house , they be very welcome . we will do our bit . I be very dubious about the smoking ban and , as a libertarian , will vote against it . it will not solve the problem , and I believe it will result in a massive increase in criminality . every time we ban something , we simply increase the criminal class . I be not sure a ban be even enforceable . in 50 year ' time , old boy will go into a tobacconist and say , " I be 64 year old and be entitle to buy cigarette , but my friend here , who be 63 , can not buy cigarette . " it be ridiculous , and it be not enforceable . I do not smoke , and smoking be decrease all the time . the people who smoke be heavily tax . I do not believe we can solve this or any other problem by ban thing . conservative have to be primarily about freedom . they have to be about low taxation and deregulation . we have to give something for our own people to vote for , which be why I have talk about these issue and , in particular , curb legal and illegal migration . I be a victim of that , as be the Home Secretary , because the previous Home Secretary be go to open a camp for asylum seeker in his constituency . I do not know whether the Home Secretary be still go to do that ; if he decide to row back on that idea in his constituency , I hope he will not close that camp in Essex but keep open the putative camp at RAF Scampton in Lincolnshire , as that would be completely unfair . be a fair - minded person , he will not do that , I be sure . I shall be knock on his door soon to say that we need a compromise , as we can not have 2 , 000 illegal migrant overwhelming local social service . after that brief run around the King ' s Speech , I be sure you will be grateful if I now sit down and let other have a go , Mr Deputy Speaker . let I start by say what a pleasure it be to follow the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . I also welcome the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) , who will make his maiden speech ; he will know that we campaign in slogan but we sometimes have to make difficult decision when we represent our constituent , as we have see with the international issue take place in Israel and Gaza . I say to the right hon . member for Gainsborough that we be talk about a ceasefire not only to enable the hostage to be release , but to stop the killing of innocent civilian . when organisation such as the Catholic Agency for Overseas Development can not even enter Gaza and do the work they need to do , and when 44 % of the United Nations worker have be kill , we have to do something . we can not sit back and do nothing , which be why I will add my voice to the call for a ceasefire to enable our brilliant diplomat to try to find a solution to this intolerable situation . People may have see what take place at the weekend , but let I say that I be write this speech and I just could not carry on , as it be incredibly upsetting to see baby ' body line up — that be just a horrific thing . they have do absolutely nothing ; they have just come into this world , and for what — just to be dead ? parent and all sort of people be face incredible difficulty , not be able to eat or drink ; doctor be even unable to carry out operation . we have have the first speech of our gracious sovereign and he set out the Government ' s business until the next Session , with 21 Bills propose . they do not represent the urgency of what be need , and I want to focus on energy and climate change , public service and empower local government , and keep we all safe through the criminal justice system . in the gracious sovereign ' s speech , the Government say they want to strengthen the UK ' s energy security , but there be no measure set out to bring down bill . onshore wind project have recently stall , as there be no new application , so investment be be drive abroad . however , new licence for oil and gas be set out in the King ' s Speech . despite 13 year of North sea licence , only small amount of gas have be find — the equivalent of nine week of usage ; we be talk about 12 field and nine week . despite six round since 2010 , only five new field have be discover , and the Sillimanite gas field be 30 % own by the russian gas giant Gazprom . how be that make we secure ? his Majesty ' s opposition ' s Gracious Speech , which we hope to produce fairly soon , will include the energy independence Bill . that will include a target to achieve clean power by 2030 — we have nothing from this Government on target . we will bring forward the planning and regulatory reform for clean power by 2030 and establish " great British Energy " , a new home - grow publicly own clean power generation company with a mandate to produce profit - free power for our citizen . all of that will cut energy bill , create good job , ensure energy security and protect the planet for future generation . our child be choke and die from inhale particulate matter . Dr Sarah Moller from the University of York find that the people who experience the high level of nitrogen oxide emission be those who live near road and in area of high density — deprived community — so what do the Government do ? they cancel a major transport project that would have enable people to use high - speed train for capacity and connectivity . to make thing more difficult , the Government have do a u - turn . ticket office be there to help people use train ; the Government want to close they . accessible train station should be a right for people with disability . that be what I be try to ensure with Bescot Stadium station . our next Gracious Speech will have a Bill on energy independence . we have see the recent pronouncement of the Bank of England that the economy be flatline . inflation , mortgage cost , and food and energy price be create a crisis in every household . there be nothing in the speech to help those on the frontline who be provide statutory service . the government - fund part of local authority spending have fall in real term by 52 % . instead of give local authority a grant base on a formula that calculate need and deprivation , the Government have retain funding and purport to dish it out by ensure that local authority have to bid against each other for a particular fund . Most local authority be struggle to provide child protection and other statutory service , but there be nothing in the speech to deal with the issue surround vulnerable child , which have increase since the pandemic and have have a major impact on local authority budget . local authority be on the frontline , and they should be in a position to provide these service face to face . they be there to support our constituent , not to close down or turn people away . again , there be also nothing in the Gracious Speech about NHS waiting time or decent wage for staff . there be also a lack of clarity in the Gracious Speech regard the criminal justice system , which be collapse , Mr Deputy Speaker — and he will know as a former barrister . some 90 % of crime be go unsolved . arrest on theft be down 40 % on just a few year ago . shoplifting have reach record level . those who work on the frontline in supermarket be suffer abuse . the charity Retail Trust find that 40 % of worker — two in five — face abuse from customer weekly . those worker be the one who help we through the pandemic . I see a gang when I be in a local convenience store , look at the CCTV . I be wonder what the owner of the shop be look at . basically , someone have wheel up a van , and lift a clothe bank and take it away . that be what be happen now . we still have 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police . in labour ' s first Gracious Speech , his Majesty ' s opposition will put 13 , 000 more neighbourhood and police community support officer on the street . we want to introduce respect order , with criminal sanction for antisocial behaviour . the Government have not even look at prison ; there be no mention of those difficulty in the King ' s Speech . I ask a prison governor in my constituency , " what ' s the capacity in your prison ? " he say , " 99 % . " I say , " what should it be ? " and he say , " 70 % . " that be what be happen , and it have to be deal with . we need a return to extend court sitting to address the backlog of case , and we should perhaps bring back Nightingale court , which we use to have . we need to see respect for the rule of law . the legal system need proper representation for all , and it be vital , as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that both side be represent . judge be have to fill in for claimant and for the defence because they need to explain procedure to people , so that they know exactly what will happen to they . there be also not a single word in the Gracious Speech — I do check — about public service , apart from a statement that public service estimate will be lay ; there be nothing about how to deal with the present crisis . we have a dithering , do - nothing Government . the big discussion be whether a Minister or Secretary of State should be sack . we tell the Government about the Northern Ireland protocol . they then have to put it right , and rename it , and that come in only in February this year . we tell they about the Horizon programme , and how our brilliant scientist be be prevent from continue to take part , until finally the Government agree that we should get involve in the Horizon programme . it be so difficult for scientist because they have to plan ahead and apply for grant . yet only in September this year do the Government agree on the Horizon programme . they dither about it , and could have save everyone time . some 28 % of music industry worker have not have any work in the EU for the last two year . I know people say , " so what be you go to do ? " , so I want to set out what will be in his Majesty ' s opposition ' s King ' s Speech : breakfast club , so all child can benefit from a good start ; get the NHS back on its foot by cut waiting list , deliver out - of - hour treatment and double the number of scanner to provide fast treatment ; and get Britain build again , with 1 . 5 million home build in five year and first - time buyer be allow to bid for those house in their local community . I walk past the flat that be there for the Commonwealth game village . they be lie empty and I would like to know what be happen with they . homeless people be be put up in hotel , when those flat be lie empty and should be use . we need to switch on " Great British Energy " , a new british company give we cheap bill and new high - pay job ; and to take back our street from gang , drug dealer and fly - tipper , with strong policing , guarantee patrol in town centre and more criminal put behind bar . that be what will be in his Majesty ' s opposition ' s King ' s Speech . finally , I know the Prime Minister be very interested in " Star Wars " — he be a " Star Wars " geek — so I say this to he : " Red 326 stand by . " I be grateful for the opportunity to talk about the NHS and our nation ' s health and wellbeing . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to prevention and early detection of disease . for the long - term stability and affordability of our NHS , it be vital that there continue to be a laser - like focus on diagnostic centre and more medical staff . the strong role for pharmacist be very welcome , but there be still so much more that we need to do to provide adequate gp provision and dentistry . that be acutely feel in my Gosport constituency . I have speak many time in this House about childhood cancer , which be the big killer by disease of child under the age of 14 in the UK . early detection be more crucial here than almost anywhere , yet over 50 % of child ' s cancer be miss in primary care and pick up at A & E , meaning long , harsh and more invasive treatment , along with a long - term impact on the child themselves , their family and love one , and the NHS as well . there be no long - term impact study in the UK , but study by St . Jude Children ' s Research Hospital in the United States reveal that everyone who have undergo treatment for cancer as a child will experience some long - term health implication in adulthood , from infertility to blindness . the title of today ' s debate be " build an NHS fit for the Future " . a future - focus NHS mean smart , more efficient and more appropriate treatment , as well as early detection and , ultimately , prevention . we already lead the world in genome sequencing and we should be harness its power ; that mean a childhood cancer mission . I must say that find it disappointing that such a vital piece of the puzzle be miss from the King ' s Speech . I look forward to hear the new Health Secretary talk more about this in the future . prevention , as much as cure , be the key to manage the health of the nation , and I be glad to see the tobacco and vape Bill in the Government ' s legislative programme . smoking be the big entirely preventable cause of death and disease . although vaping be an important tool for quit smoking , it be absolutely right that more be do to reduce the appeal and availability of vape to our young people . as Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , I have see and hear about the huge value that grassroots sport have to the health and wellbeing of people — young and old — across the country , so I be pleased to see the guidance from the government early this year on prevent and deal with concussion in grassroots sport . the Committee ' s work in this area , alongside the work of the all - party parliamentary group on acquire brain injury , have show that sign and risk of concussion , include possible link to dementia , be not yet well enough understand . it be right that the focus be on encourage everyone in sport — player , parent , coach , teacher and administrator — to make sure they can recognise and act on concussion , so I look forward to hear more about what the Government be go to do on that vital issue . I can not move on without pay tribute to Sir Bobby Charlton , whose memorial service be today . he be a giant among british sportsman and will be sorely miss by our football fraternity . at the grassroot and professionally , woman ' s sport be thrive in the UK . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and the Women and Equalities Committee be both consider what more can be do to support woman in sport . it be such an important component to woman and girl ' physical and mental health and wellbeing . it be crucial to make sure that woman have access to the facility that they need — whether that be school provide the opportunity to play a range of sport , local club provide woman ' s change room , or training schedule that be not base principally on the convenience of male player . it be also about national institution finally wake up to the value of woman ' s sport and end the disgraceful situation where the England woman ' s cricket team have never play a test match at Lord ' s , the so - call home of cricket . I look forward to the Committee complete our inquiry in the new year , bring recommendation from the Government and sporting body to improve the provision of sport for woman , and I look forward in the new year to revisit the Committee ' s work on discrimination in cricket as the England and Wales Cricket Board begin to implement the recommendation of the Independent Commission on Equity in Cricket . look more widely at sport , it be fair to say that english football have be in the grip of an existential crisis . the fail European Super League , the collapse of Bury FC and the impact of the pandemic call into question the sustainability of our national game . the fan - lead review , chair by my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , and the Government ' s White Paper be both important step to reform . the promise of a football governance Bill in the King ' s Speech be the big step in the right direction . early this year , my Committee publish our report on football governance . we want to see the Government get on with set up the independent regulator , and for it to be ready to step in to prevent the collapse of more club and to ensure fair funding and revenue sharing throughout the football pyramid . we will wait to see the detail of the Bill , and I hope that the Department will be able to introduce it at the early possible opportunity . I also strongly welcome the inclusion of the Media Bill in the King ' s Speech and the decision to introduce it so early in this session . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee conduct pre - legislative scrutiny of the Bill early this year , and our key recommendation in both our report on the radio measure and our report on the Bill overall be that this legislation need to be enact , because it be vital to protect the long - term health of the medium in this country . I especially welcome the fact that the Government have listen to the Committee and strengthen the legislation to ensure that specific genre of content be still relevant to the public service remit . I welcome , too , that the Government and Channel 4 have work together to ensure that the channel be sustainable , while also protect independent content producer . the Bill balance the ability to adapt to future change in tv and radio , while ensure that viewer and listener have necessary safeguard in place , and I look forward to see that Bill progress . much of our country ' s culture , medium and sport do not need legislation to flourish . they be remarkably resilient , imaginative and innovative sector , but I be glad that the Government continue to act where it be necessary . I be pleased that the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill will tackle one of the antisocial rip - off behaviour that be target at visitor to London , but there be much more that the Government could be do to support our tourist industry . tomorrow , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee will be take evidence on what more can be do , whether that be through restore tax - free shopping , improve our visa system or grow investment . I look forward to continue to press for more action wherever it be need . my constituent in Nottingham South be deeply disappointed by the thin offering of Bills promise by the Prime Minister for the last year of this Parliament before he finally let they have a vote on his unelected Government ' s dismal record . the legislative affair team at Downing Street should be applaud for insert the Automated Vehicles Bill — a Bill about driverless car — into the speech . perhaps there be a tell allusion to the absence of leadership behind the great wheel of state at 10 Downing Street . this Mr Micawber - esque King ' s Speech offer precious little change from the past 13 year of the Tories ' mismanage decline of our country . the only hope emanate from it be the desperate hope come from the Prime Minister that something might turn up to save his sinking premiership , but , then again , perhaps he have already give up . after all , he seem more interested in interview big tech billionaire with a view to a new job in 2025 than roll up his sleeve and address the many challenge face our country . when the Prime Minister replace his short - live predecessor , he promise to get Britain back to its salad day . instead , the state of our country now more resemble that of last year ' s ill - fated lettuce . this dereliction of public duty be most evident in the stark decline of our national health service , which be already under immense pressure as we enter yet another difficult winter season . my local hospital be force to declare a critical incident in October . how much bad will thing be come January ? just as the electorate and the opposition be eagerly wait for the Prime Minister to call an election , an unprecedented number of people be wait to be see by our NHS because of this Conservative Government ' s neglect . when the Prime Minister enter 10 Downing Street last year , he pledge to cut NHS waiting list , yet just last month , and despite the incredible effort of hard - press staff , they rise to a record high of 7 . 75 million . one in seven people in England be wait for treatment . in Nottinghamshire there be still around 60 patient who have be wait more than 18 month for a procedure , and 1 , 200 patient who have be wait for more than 15 month — wait with their life on hold , worried and often in pain and discomfort . for some it be bad , because for too many that waiting will have a profound effect on the outcome . the Public Accounts Committee ' s find that wait time for patient suffer from cancer be at their bad record level be hugely concern . many member of this House will , like I , have receive often heartrende testimony from constituent whose family have spend hour wait for an overwhelmed ambulance crew to arrive to help they in their time of need , wait in an ambulance outside an overwhelmed emergency department , wait in overstretch emergency department in pain and distress , wait on a trolley in a corridor to be admit to a ward , wait for a social care package to be in place so they can leave hospital , or waiting week for an appointment just to see their family gp . we have all be wait 13 long year for the Tories to sort out the grow NHS staff shortage , which be at the heart of many of the issue afflict our health service . as a result of the Tories ' inaction , our NHS be now short of 125 , 000 much - need staff . that be the population of a small city , and those chronic shortage be lead to all - too - predictable delay in diagnosis and treatment , despite the fact that work people be pay the high level of taxation since the end of world war two . we be all pay more and get less . in many other walk of life that would be deem a breach of contract . it be therefore no surprise that public satisfaction with the NHS have fall to its low level since 1997 . the public , and NHS staff , deserve so much well than this Government . we have also be wait for a reform mental health Act . I have be contact in recent day by constituent shock that despite promise to do so in their 2019 election manifesto and , as I mention , also promise to do so in their 2017 manifesto , the Conservatives have now refuse to introduce a replacement Bill before the next general election . I know that health professional and the public be rightly concerned that the Mental Health Act 1983 be outdate and that reform be require so that our NHS can treat people with great effectiveness and dignity , while also give they great control over their treatment . during his fail Tory leadership bid last summer , the Prime Minister also promise a plan to restore NHS dentistry and a review of dentist ' contractual arrangement and incentive . the sad reality be that I be surely not the only member in this House to receive a depressingly regular number of letter from constituent who be angry that they have be wait for year to register with an NHS dentist , let alone see one . research have find that an estimate 4 million people can not access NHS dental care and can not afford to go private either . we have hear about DIY dentistry , tooth decay put child in hospital and increase level of oral cancer . again , that be a crisis of the Tories ' make . what do they expect when they cut funding for dental service in England by 8 % in real term since 2010 ? I know the Prime Minister want everyone to learn math until the age of 18 , but they do not need to be Pythagoras to work out that that would lead to drove of dentist quit and many remain NHS practice not take on new patient , create so - call dental desert . after wait a year for the Prime Minister to implement his plan to save NHS dentistry , the British Dental Association state that there be still " no new dentist , no new contract and no new money . " all this waiting would have test even the patience of Vladimir and Estragon to break point . this King ' s Speech have show that the Conservatives have no plan to keep staff work in the NHS , no plan to cut waiting list and no plan to reform our health service . the Government be more focused on in - fighting and wait in the vain hope of something well turn up . only the Labour party have the idea and the ambition to save our NHS , restore the vital service it provide we all , and reform it so that it be ready to face future challenge . we be the party with a mission and a 10 - year plan to change and modernise our NHS by train more doctor , nurse and health visitor , to lower waiting time , and to raise standard for patient . we will provide 2 million more appointment by pay staff extra to work evening and weekend , pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status . we will take the hard decision to tackle finally the problem with the NHS dental contract so that it properly deliver for patient and staff . and it be Labour that will introduce a new NHS standard that guarantee everyone in England the right to treatment for their mental health within a month , and will back up that commitment by recruit more than 8 , 500 mental health professional to provide support in every school and set up mental health hub in every community . the public be rightly feed up of wait for a change , and the Labour party wholeheartedly agree with they , not just on health , but on all my constituent ' priority : help with the cost of living , help create good job , tackle crime and antisocial behaviour , reduce homelessness , end child poverty and give every child the opportunity they need to thrive , cut energy bill , and reach net zero . we , the Labour party , will give the public the change that they want and cut the waiting . I be delighted to contribute to the debate because the Gracious Speech not only mark an historic first for his Majesty , but signal the Government ' s clear commitment to focus on the right long - term decision to put our country on a stable footing in the face of global instability create first by covid - 19 and latterly by the conflict in Ukraine and the middle east . when his Majesty ' s grandfather , the late King George VI , make his final address to Parliament from the throne in October 1950 , the Gracious Speech prepare by the then Labour Government make no mention of public health or any health - relate legislation . yet just fifteen month later — although it be never officially acknowledge — the late King , who be conservatively estimate to have smoke 40 cigarette a day from his early teen , succumb at the age of just 56 to the effect of two smoking - relate disease : lung cancer and cardiovascular disease . it be therefore bittersweet that , in the first king ' s Speech of his reign , his Majesty announce new legislation to create a smoke - free generation by restrict the sale of tobacco so that child currently age 14 or under can never be sell cigarette , and restrict the sale and marketing of e - cigarette to child . I will focus my remark on those specific measure . by commit to raise the age of sale for tobacco by one year , each year , make it an offence for anyone bear on or after 1 January 2009 to be sell tobacco product across England , the Government will not only save countless life , but will continue to level up area of our country such as my Erewash constituency , where smoking rate remain unacceptably high . I take great pride in the fact that , thank to the action of the Conservative Government , the majority of the 1st Sawley Scouts , whom I meet last Friday as part of Parliament Week , will never legally be able to buy cigarette . when we discuss this topic , and the measure to address inappropriate vaping , there be wholehearte support from the scout and their leader . I pay tribute to Dr Javed Khan for the work he have do and the role he have play in get we to this stage on tobacco control . I be privileged to be part of the ministerial team who ask Dr Khan to dig deep into how we , as a nation , can become smoke free by 2030 . one of his flagship recommendation be to raise the age of sale . to some , that may seem illiberal , but other — I be definitely in this group — would ask : " what be illiberal about protect individual from a killer ? " smoking remain the big single cause of preventable illness and death . shockingly , cigarette be the only legal consumer product that will kill most user . two out of three smoker will die from smoking unless they quit , and more than 60 , 000 people be kill by smoke each year . that be approximately twice the number of people who die from covid - 19 between March 2021 and March 2022 , yet it do not hit the headline . add to that the fact that in 2019 , a quarter of all death from cancer be connect to smoking . the annual cost of smoking to society have be estimate at £ 17 billion , with a cost of approximately £ 2 . 4 billion to the NHS alone and more than £ 13 billion lose through the productivity cost of tobacco - relate lost earning , unemployment and premature death . achieve a smoke - free society by 2030 will not only save the NHS money ; more importantly , it will save life . increase the age of sale will undoubtedly be a key intervention that will make that happen . age - of - sale policy be partly about prevent young people from gain access to age - restrict product such as cigarette and alcohol , but more importantly , they be about stop the start . when smoker be ask when they start smoke , the majority say that it be in their teen . the long we delay the ability to legally take up smoking , the few people will take it up , so few will become addicted . let we face it : never start to smoke be far easy than try to quit . we have already prove in the UK that raise the age of sale lead to a reduction in smoking prevalence . increase the age of sale from 16 to 18 in 2007 lead to a 30 % reduction in smoke prevalence among 16 and 17 - year - old in England . the last time I speak about vape in this place , I make a number of ask of the Government . I be delighted that I have be listen to , and that many of the measure I request have be include in the Gracious Speech . those ask be to regulate vape packaging , flavour and product presentation , and to enable further enforcement around the sale of vape to child and young people . those measure be a good start , but the message we need to put out be that vaping be an aid to quit smoking , not a recreational product . we be already hear of child — yes , child — who have medical condition as a result of vaping . I believe that one way to change the way adult and child perceive vaping be to ensure that e - cigarette be available on prescription . in October 2021 , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency update its guidance on license e - cigarette as medicine . be license would allow e - cigarette to be available on prescription . just over two year on , we be yet to see the first MHRA - license e - cigarette , so when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions close the debate , will he update the House on the progress make in enable e - cigarette to be available on prescription ? that would undoubtedly put out the message that vaping be a serious way to quit smoking , not something to be consume like sweet . that message need to be loud and clear , because the scout I meet last Friday inform I that child in year 7 at their school be already vape . we have no time to waste on this issue . I will briefly mention the NHS long - term workforce plan . the focus of that plan have always be on nurse and doctor , but I want to put in a plug for other NHS worker . we need more radiologist and radiographer ; we need more pathologist and biomedical scientist . let we make sure we have all the support NHS staff in place that the doctor and nurse will need to conduct their business in an effective manner . in our 2019 manifesto , we commit to level up , and that commitment have be reinforce by the action of our Prime Minister and the Government he lead . level up be about so much more than infrastructure ; it be also about level up our health and our life chance . that be particularly important for my constituent in Erewash , where the prevalence of smoking — 16 . 6 % — be high than the national average . it be estimate that the average annual spend by someone with a 20 - cigarette - a - day habit be upwards of £ 3 , 000 , while research recently conduct on behalf of the Daily Telegraph suggest that those under the age of 26 be spend around £ 2 , 700 a year on disposable vape to satisfy their daily habit . consequently , these measure should not just be consider in a health context . by become smoke free by 2030 , the Government can lift around 2 . 6 million adult and 1 million child out of poverty altogether , which would represent a significant victory for our levelling - up agenda . it be my pleasure to speak in this debate in response to the King ' s Speech — the King ' s first — on behalf of my North Shropshire constituency . I particularly welcome the Government ' s ambition to cut NHS waiting list , but , frankly , I be shocked to see no reference to some of the most pressing health emergency in my constituency . there be no mention of emergency care and ambulance waiting time , and no acknowledgement of the lack of access to nhs dentist and GP appointment and , indeed , of our catastrophic cancer treatment situation . some of those issue be literally one of life and death in North Shropshire . the proportion of patient at Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin integrate care board who start cancer treatment within 62 day of an urgent gp referral be just 38 % in June , accord to Macmillan . the national target sit at 85 % . it be shock that in 2023 access to timely NHS cancer treatment be still a postcode lottery . liberal Democrats have pledge to give people a legal right to cancer treatment within two month of an urgent referral , and I urge the Government to make a similar commitment , rather than water down their target for lifesave treatment . I be also disappointed that the crisis in NHS dentistry be overlook in the King ' s Speech . in North Shropshire , the number of adult see by a dentist between 2019 and 2022 fall by more than 10 % , down to just 35 . 4 % , and less than half of local child have see a dentist in that time . local dentist report a shocking increase in child tooth decay when a parent be unable to register and take their child along . seven month ago , the Government promise that a dental recovery plan would be publish specifically to deal with this problematic issue , so I be concerned that no reference at all be make to it in the King ' s Speech . I would be grateful if the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions provide an update on the progress of the plan in his closing remark and confirm on what date we should expect to receive it . I be frustrated to see a lack of reference to adult social care and carer in general in the King ' s Speech . the support that carer provide be a lifeline to elderly and rural resident in my constituency , yet the workforce be shrink at an alarming rate . in the last few year , the number of vacancy nationally have skyrocket to 165 , 000 . of course , that be have an impact on A & E department and on ambulance service , because hospital can not discharge patient and allow a good flow through the hospital for those who be admit when critically ill . I hope that the promise plan to transform the workforce of the NHS will not ignore the vital but creak care sector . the Government must resolve the crisis there by reform staff retention and recruitment ; tackle the importance of pay in a sector that be in competition with retail and hospitality for new recruit ; and recognise the importance of carer ' role by provide the sector with minimum professional standard . in Shropshire , the care sector face the logistical challenge of deliver these vital service over a large rural area . I hope that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will agree that it be vital to consider rurality when draw up NHS and care workforce plan . People in North Shropshire know that access healthcare be nigh on impossible without access to their own car . I have speak in this place many time about how poor the public transport link be in my constituency . they prevent people from access vital health service , and from access job opportunity and high education . it be welcome that the Government want to improve journey in the midland but , to be blunt , in my constituency there be very few public transport journey to improve . People without a car rely on friend and relative for lift — we be resilient and we get by — but when will the Conservatives realise that rural Britain be home to 20 % of the population and that we be worth invest in , rather than simply take we for grant ? the Government have also say , and I welcome it , that they want to ease the cost of live and provide help for business . I be glad that both statement be include in the King ' s Speech , but I feel it be necessary to spell out exactly what it might look like to deliver that for constituent in place such as North Shropshire . for rural resident , the cost of living have only exacerbate long - stand inequality . rural resident earn 7 . 5 % less on average than people in urban area , but because council service be much more expensive to provide , their council tax payment be on average 20 % high . not only that , but off - grid energy user be still wait for the Government to provide substantial support with their energy cost . the Countryside Alliance have report that , on average , rural household spend £ 800 a year more on fuel than those on the grid . the Government need to reassure people in North Shropshire and the rest of rural Britain that their commitment to ease the cost of living crisis include they , by address the lack of an energy price cap for people who live off - grid and extend rural fuel duty relief to those force to drive long distance for work , for education or to access essential healthcare . rural business obviously have to battle with the cost of supply and energy bill , but they also struggle because of a deplete workforce and the lack of digital connectivity . just 46 % of rural business have a stable 4 g broadband connection , so it be no wonder that the Federation of Small Businesses report that in 2022 , 6 % few rural business report that they plan to expand . if the Government want to help with this issue , they need to understand the factor that have put rural business on the back foot and put in place policy to help they cope with the discrepancy that come with sparse and spread - out population . I suggest that allow rural roam on mobile network would be a great place to start . much of my constituency be in a notspot or a partial notspot . anyone who have try to phone I will know that a continuous conversation be almost impossible across large swathe of North Shropshire . the Government have commit to promote trade with economy in the fast - grow region of the world through the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . it be crucial to ensure that our farming industry have the opportunity to promote the fantastic produce that we grow in the UK and expand its export activity , but the deal endanger farmer ’ business as well as animal welfare and environmental standard . because of the deal , import that have a low production cost but a much high animal welfare and environmental one will be for sale in this country , which risk undermine our world - lead british farmer and food producer . surely future trade deal must avoid any further damage to this vital sector . I be glad to hear the Government commit to the promise to reform the archaic leasehold system — something that Liberal Democrats have be call for since Lloyd George . I hope the leasehold legislation will include new protection for homeowner with a freehold who have be trap into a fleecehold arrangement because the share area on their development be manage by a private company and not the local authority . I have be campaign for this issue to be resolve follow shocking case in my constituency , and I have be contact by freeholder throughout the country with unbelievable story of their experience with rogue developer . in conclusion , 95 % of the land in North Shropshire be use for agriculture . we be typical of rural Britain . I be disappointed to stand here and explain to the Government , yet again , the way in which they have fail to address the challenge we face . the Government have prove that they have run out of idea for rural Britain , have take its vote for grant for so many year . now , here we be in a debate to discuss way to get the NHS back on its foot . after eight year of disastrous Tory management , the only viable answer to that question be surely to hold a general election and start afresh . it be not really surprising that , have spend two year of this Parliament with large chunk of the economy and the NHS shut down while we fight a disease , we still face challenge come out of that . when I listen to speech from around the Chamber , with the constant wish list for more and more money , I think we all ought to remind ourselves of that . we should also remind ourselves that lot of people who run business up and down the country be be take for grant , with additional burden be put on they . they be carry the additional debt that we , the guardian of the taxpayer ' s pound , have take on , give what we have spend . in fight the pandemic , we have take on what be , in effect , a wartime debt . we must recognise that that have consequence . we would all have be much well off and could have afford to be much more generous with taxpayer ' money have we not be through that . let I focus on some issue that be include in the King ' s Speech and some that be not . one issue that be not include be reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 . I add my voice to those around the Chamber who have express regret about that . I be the Minister who commence that work five year ago , and it be particularly personal to I , because we raise expectation that we really be go to deliver parity of esteem by change the Act . the Mental Health Act be pass in 1983 , an era when we view people with severe mental health issue as a problem to be manage . we all want to look the other way ; it be not something we want to deal with . we have see a sea change in public attitude towards that issue , and it be finally be recognise in government . it be a privilege for I to sit down with a lot of campaigner , who tell I of their experience . what make it personal to I be that I witness they relive the trauma that they experience under detention . I feel personally responsible for the fact that , have raise their expectation five year ago , we have let they down by not legislate . my message to those on the Front Bench be that the legislation , although it be not in the King ' s Speech , could still be bring forward . I encourage they to do that , because until we do , we be not genuinely deliver parity of esteem . it be all very well say , " we be put more resource into school and we be tackle suicide prevention , " but they be two different thing . we need a proper approach to deal with severe mental ill health that will enhance the right of people who be have to be treat . there be occasion where people need to have their liberty take away , but it be not an absolute ; they still have ownership over what happen to they . when we hear story about people in detention be constantly medicate by drug , that be not something that I equate with our society . it be important that the Government ' s first priority be to make sure that they do their good for the most vulnerable . another item of legislation long - promise that be not in the King ' s Speech be the ban on conversion therapy . I issue a word of warning to the House . it be clear to I that there be a majority in this Chamber for a ban on conversion therapy . it be also clear to I that every one of we , I would hope , would wish to see abusive and coercive practice design to cure people of their sexuality ban or outlaw . the thing that bother I be that when we be talk about these abusive and coercive practice , we use the term " therapy . " therapy be design to alleviate distress . the practice we want to outlaw can not in any way be describe in such a manner . I have be please by the engagement I have have with government and campaigner on all side about how we get the language on this right . we have move a long way in the right direction , but we be look at abusive practice design to cause harm . I know that lot of discussion be happen , but I say to those member perhaps think about bring forward a private member ' s Bill to resurrect the ban on conversion therapy : can we just remove this term " therapy " from anything design to change people ' s sexuality ? we know that ultimately therapy should be use only to describe process design to alleviate distress . turn to some more local issue , I want to talk about the national health service in south Essex . for a long time , we have have a challenging position in south Essex . we sit right next to London . we know there be much more attractive place to work for NHS professional when there be the great teaching hospital in London . we have always find it difficult to recruit the staff we need in south Essex . in fact , in Thurrock we have be without enough gps for decade . when we have an NHS dealing with the backlog cause by the pandemic and waiting list , we be see some acute problem . I be draw to an article in the press just this weekend , where I read that along the Thames — just a little bit down the road in Southend — as many as one in five people be await treatment on a waiting list . I be sad to say that be not a surprise to I . go back to 2015 , the Ministers at the time grip the challenge with the provision of health in south Essex . great focus be put on it . there be a proposal for develop the integrate care system . we look closely at what make the good health economy , and there be recognition that improve primary care in south Essex should be a priority , but we seem to have lose that focus . my challenge be this : what have happen to our commission system for that to happen ? we think that move towards ics would give a well focus , but it seem to have fundamentally fail . six year ago , as part of the process , my local NHS bring forward a proposal to close what remain of Orsett Hospital in Thurrock . that hospital cease to be a general hospital decade ago , but it retain a great deal of affection among my constituent , mainly because most of they be bear there . I take it upon myself to support my local NHS when it say that it want to close what remain of that hospital and reinvest it in new service in the community . I be prepared to take the political flak . it be difficult to deliver that message to constituent , but I believe the local NHS when it say that it would bring new facility — it promise I an urgent treatment centre in Grays in my constituency , and three new integrate medical centre — but I have not receive any one of those thing in six year . I take the flak and persuade my constituent that that be in their good interest , and now I look a fool . that be basically because there be a circular system in the NHS commissioning system whereby lot of paper get produce but there be no actual delivery . we really do need to get to grip with that . when we raise issue about the NHS , people think , " how dare they criticise our doctor and nurse . " actually , we be not ; we be criticise failing in how service be commission . every time we look at this , we never see any improvement . in Tilbury , I be look at the hoarding around a site where we will build an integrate medical centre — they have be there for two year . we have clear the site and it be ready , but we be still get that circular conversation with the NHS in south Essex . that really need to change . I will use the last bit of my time to talk about the covid inquiry and what it tell we about how Government work and what we should be do with our institution . it be really not very pretty , be it , to see some of the film that be come out ? as we move on from the King ' s Speech and we be have a new Government assemble in front of we , we should reflect on some of the really bad behaviour be highlight as part of the inquiry . in the last few year we have see some very bad behaviour here in Parliament , as well as in relationship between Ministers and civil servant in Whitehall . we should remember that the impartiality of our civil service be to be value . the way in which our government have operate have give we stable government for decade . we have see a massive expansion in the number of special adviser , which have lead to the marginalisation of junior Ministers in this place and a subsequent lack of accountability . here be where the action should be . minister be responsible to Parliament for what happen in their Departments , and special adviser seem to be breed apace but do nothing to improve the quality of that government . the shadow Health Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , raise the fact that there have be five Health Secretaries in two year . the Conservatives have also have 12 Culture Secretaries since 2010 , so perhaps it should not surprise we that , among the many glaring omission in the Gracious Speech , there be an absence of any measure to support those who work in Britain ' s cultural sector , and particularly musician . I want to focus on that . music industry leader tell I that their sector feel leave behind . freelancer feel leave out in the cold without the financial stability they deserve . in too many community , cultural provision be now dependent on the good will of talented individual who be prepared to manage on shoestre budget with low income level . we can do so much well in this country . as a music leader recently tell I : " the warning bell have be ring for year , and this Government seem to have take for grant the drive , passion and sacrifice which have somehow keep the industry alive . " I have be tell repeatedly that the problem face by creative come back to this : a decline in art education , which be lead to skill shortage ; fall funding level ; and the challenge to tour cause by the Government ' s failure to get a visa waiver for tour in the Brexit deal . the Government choose to ignore those problem and pretend that they be support the sector adequately — even today they be set ambitious growth target for the creative sector . I want to begin by look at the squeeze on art education , and in particular the decline in music education . we know that state - fund school be increasingly unable to provide strong music education — or in some case any music education . policy such as the english baccalaureate , combine with the crisis in music teacher recruitment and squeeze school budget , have lead to a reduce provision of music education for young people in state school . on average , music provision in state - fund school be only 47 minute a week . that be significantly below the Government ' s target of one hour , which be a bare minimum . compare that paltry target with part of Germany , where secondary school student study music for at least two hour a week , or Finland , where music be study for eight hour a week . meanwhile , the uptake of music at a - level have fall by a catastrophic 45 % since 2010 . there be a similarly worrying picture when it come to study music at GCSE . in this difficult environment for school and teacher , the role of music education hub be all the more important , yet those hub have have their funding reduce by 17 % in real term since 2011 , and Government plan to reduce the number of hub risk a further deterioration of the music offer . the Government ' s fail education policy mean that the opportunity to gain the skill necessary to be a musician be become increasingly the preserve of those young people whose family who can afford to pay privately , either through attend independent school or through private music tuition . as a result of those conservative policy , less than a quarter of the music and perform art workforce now come from a working - class background . as well as few opportunity in school , there be now barrier to both bud and establish musician tour beyond the UK ' s border . the failure of the former Culture Secretary to obtain a touring agreement with the European Union for cultural worker result in an appalling mess of red tape and extortionate fee for band and orchestra look to perform in EU country . agent , promoter , record label and musician have all tell I that this be prove devastating for artist , particularly those try to break into the industry . the freelance opera singer Paul Carey Jones say : " as ever , it ' s those at the start of their career , without the backing of an establish reputation , who will suffer the most … the consequent long - term damage to the UK ' s position as a global force in the perform art be incalculable . " in a recent interview on LBC , the Culture Secretary imply that sort out the mess of visa for tour musician be not under the control of her government , but it be up to the Government to renegotiate it and to find a solution for tour musician . then there be the financial challenge that many musician face . a recent survey by the Musicians ' Union find that musician earn , on average , just £ 20 , 700 a year from music . nearly a quarter of musician report that they do not earn enough to support themselves or their family , even after their lengthy training . there be a direct link between the work condition of musician and decision to cut art and culture budget . local authority be the big funder of culture in the UK , but , as we know , they have suffer a 40 % real - term reduction in central Government spending since 2010 . that have mean a £ 1 . 4 billion shortfall in spending on culture , heritage and library . meanwhile , Arts Council England have its per capita budget reduce by 13 % between 2009 - 10 and 2021 - 22 . it be therefore no surprise that the number of fill job in music be fall . in the last year alone , the number of fill job in music perform and visual art fall by a tenth — a drop of 35 , 000 role . that reduction be even great in role relate to instrument manufacture , sound recording and the operating of music venue . how can we expect child and young people to aspire to work in the music industry if there be no job for they to go into ? funding shortfall may also sadly have an impact on the important work undertake by music organisation in health and care . for example , the Liverpool philharmonic have just celebrate 15 year of its music and health programme , which work with the NHS to help people access music to support their recovery and their wellbeing . another brilliant health initiative be the English National Opera ' s " breathe " programme , where ENO chorus member have use singing technique to aid recovery from covid - 19 or long covid . there be also a great deal of work involve musician bring joy to people with dementia and those live in care home . the failure to support musician and other creative be not a peripheral issue , because expression in all its form be central to the task of recreate a sense of community , identity , pride and hope , and our creative worker be at the heart of that potential . we will never achieve the diversity need for the art sector to thrive under the Tory policy I have discuss . the systemic failure to protect creative worker under this Conservative Government have lead to working - class representation in the creative industry halve since the 1970 . today , the Culture Secretary be in Manchester , praise the creative industry as a driver of economic growth . at the same time , she be preside over the cutting of the funding stream that feed they , and expect they to run on empty , do more with less , year after year . it be time for this government finally to accept that their policy have fail , and that Britain ' s culture sector would be well off under a Labour Government . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) on his excellent maiden speech . let I begin by pay tribute to his Majesty on his first Gracious Speech . as he reflect in that speech , we be all remind of the selflessness of his mother , her late Majesty , which he continue to exemplify . it be fantastic to hear the wonderful speech of the proposer and the seconder of the motion on the Loyal Address , my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) . they be both fellow Yorkshire folk and both great friend . my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby have regale friend and colleague alike for many year with his joke . it be wonderful to hear his entire repertoire in just one sit . he tell we that his first parliamentary contest be , just like mine , in Redcar , where I live as a child and go to school . it be also where my mum serve as an NHS community midwife , so I see at first hand the incredible work of the NHS from a very early age . fast forward to the present day , I have the privilege of represent the town , and the hospital where my mum undertake her nursing training . that be some year before I be even bear , but still I regularly meet constituent who work alongside mum in the 1960 . I welcome the Government ' s focus on build an NHS fit for the future . as I visit dentist , doctor and Darlington Memorial Hospital and I speak to constituent at my surgery , it be clear that despite this Government ' s strong record of investment , with record funding , record doctor and record nurse , much more need to be do . tee , Esk and Wear Valleys be our local mental health trust . it have some immense challenge to deliver the mental health care that my constituent need . my surgery regularly feature people with heartbreaking story , where the support they need have not be there . that be why I welcome more funding to deliver mental health support . I regularly see family in my surgery affect by the tragedy of suicide . those terrible story of pain and suffering be incredibly difficult to hear . that be why the Government have my full backing in their suicide prevention strategy . however , I think they should bring forward long discuss mental health legislation , just as I believe that we need progress on ban conversion practice . I join my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jackie Doyle - Price ) in her comment on the terminology use . abuse be abuse , not therapy . I also welcome the £ 8 billion commitment for NHS and adult social care . as a solicitor before be elect to this place , I find that the big single concern of those plan for later life be how their care would be cover . our elderly should have confidence in the care and support they need in later life . I welcome the step be take to deliver that . on hospice , I be privileged to follow in the step of Jack Dromey as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for hospice and end of life care . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a hospice trustee . the Government rightly support our hospice incredibly well during covid . however , with patchwork commission from our icb , and despite clear direction in the Health and Social Care Act 2012 to commission palliative care , many hospice be vulnerable to closure or reduction in service , put increase pressure on our NHS . it need not be like that , with ringfenced funding in ICB budget for palliative care . Darlington be still not get sufficient dentistry . minister say that be down to the icb ; the icb say it be down to the dentist ; and the dentist can not make the contract work . even when additional funding be find , as it have be recently follow the closure of one practice , we still can not get the dentist we need . be it time to insist that every dentist train here spend a number of year provide NHS service before they move to exclusively private work ? I welcome the expansion in dental skill and urge Ministers to go far to accelerate growth in number . tackle the challenge of tobacco , illegal tobacco sale , disposable vape sale , the child groom that flow with that and the organise crime that lie behind that , be of deep concern to parent in my constituency . I welcome the measure to clamp down on tobacco use and disposable vape , and I would welcome the licensing of sale of legal tobacco as a further way of crack down on that . respiratory health be very important . across the United Kingdom , one of many issue be chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the hon . Gentleman be well aware of that , for he have speak before about it . we have the bad figure in all of Europe except for Denmark . some 33 % of copd patient be readmitte within 28 day of discharge , even though readmission have be find to be strongly relate to post - discharge mentality . do the hon . Gentleman agree that for that 33 % , the NICE system in place for COPD need to be review , and a well service need to be deliver ? I concur with the hon . Gentleman ' s call for further work on that . it be deeply concern to see child use disposable vape and suffer severe trauma that result in hospitalisation . More must be do to clamp down on the illegal sale of those product . I be pleased that the Government be focus on build an NHS fit for the future . finally , can we please see more dentist in Darlington ? " a profound betrayal " , " an insult " , " Incomprehensible " , " a major breach of trust " , " a huge blow " , demonstrate " what little regard the current UK government have for mental health " , have " break its promise to thousand of people " — not my word but those of mental health expert in response to the Government ' s scrapping of the reform of the Mental Health Act . back in 2017 , there be hope of real change when the Government pledge to reform the Act . six year later , and after much posturing from Government Ministers , that promise have sadly be break . I sit for many month with colleague from across the House on the Joint Committee of the draft Mental Health Bill . we take evidence from expert and those with live experience . many have to unpick painful , traumatic experience , and do so willingly so that no other person would have to endure the same . that would all be for nothing . Trauma relive for nothing . recommendation make for nothing . the Government never even bother to respond to the Committee ' s report . black people be five time more likely to be section . More than 2 , 000 people with learning disability be hold in mental health hospital , of whom 200 be child . that be the reality of the Mental Health Act in modern Britain . all that be set amid year of Tory failure on mental health . waiting list be through the roof , standard of care be fall and staff be burn out . poor standard of social housing , the cost living crisis , the decimate benefit system and grow job precarity be the social ill drive the mental health crisis we now face . those ill have be intensify by a Conservative Government who have underfunde our NHS and public service . that be the hallmark of a Government who simply do not care . this government do not care if child languish on waiting list . they do not care if parent have to give up their job to sit at home on suicide watch because their child can not get the help they need . they do not care about people in all our community . health be something that bridge the economic divide and the class divide . it be a factor that matter to every single one of our constituent in some way or form . but the failure be not just in health . across Tooting , whether they live in a council house , rent privately or be a homeowner , the Government have fail everyone . not content with sell off over 20 , 000 council home in Wandsworth , leave thousand of child homeless each winter , the Conservatives then make it impossible for people to get on the housing ladder . average rent in toot for a two - bedroom flat be £ 2 , 300 a month , with bill . in what world be that feasible or even acceptable ? homeowner be no well off either . after the previous Prime Minister crash the economy , which Conservative member all support , homeowner across Tooting be have to pay hundred of pound more on their mortgage . everyone deserve the security and safety of their own home . speak of safety , talk to people across Tooting and they will tell you of their worry about antisocial behaviour and crime , with multiple incident of child — child — be mug after school and of drug deal not be address . why ? because the police be under - resource and overstretch . my local police team be absolutely incredible . local police team do their good and I pay tribute to their effort , but we all know that most low - level crime go unsolved , and they be often a feeder for the most serious stuff , such as drug dealing . this the direct result of real - term budget cut and a cut to safe neighbourhood team . the Government be record breaker , but it be not something to be proud of . waiting list for NHS treatment have reach a record high of 7 . 7 million people . that include many people from across Tooting . they be wait in pain for a hip replacement , worry their cancer might spread , or stick in a bay for many , many hour in A & E , where I do shift . back in 2010 , patient wait more than 12 hour in A & E be pretty much non - existent , but that be the sad reality for 44 , 000 people last month alone . in 2010 , when Labour leave office , doctor like I be not have to perform intimate exam in cupboard and patient be not have to line the hall wait to be see , lie on the floor . with yet another Health Secretary come into post , nothing will change and toot people will continue to be let down by the Government . this be a King ' s Speech lack in ambition and fail to address the problem face by people across the country on a daily basis ; a King ' s Speech that be truly a testament to broken Britain and the Government who cause it . we now need a Government willing to give Britain its future back . we need a Labour Government . on behalf of the people of the city of Southend and Leigh - on - Sea , I wish to express my gratitude and respect for his Majesty . her Majesty the late Queen Elizabeth II be still much miss in Southend , but his Majesty have accede the throne with all the dignity and gravita that we come to expect from his mother . it be a true privilege to witness the first king ' s Speech in 70 year . I judge all new legislation against my three priority to make the new city of Southend safe , healthy and wealthy . I be pleased to say that the King ' s Speech hit all three of those priority , although today we be , of course , talk about build an NHS fit for the future . that go right to the heart of much of the work I have undertake since be elect . as many member have do , I welcome very much the commitment to create a smokefree generation , crack down on youth vaping , grow our NHS workforce and cut waiting list . however , I would like to talk a little about capital funding . I welcome very much that core spending by the end of this Parliament will have increase from £ 140 billion to £ 193 billion in 2024 - 25 . we have invest record sum in our NHS . that be an increase of £ 53 billion in cash term , or a 37 % increase . I welcome the fact that that include capital spending of £ 83 million in the current spending review go into Southend Hospital , with another £ 19 million set to come on top of that , mean a total of £ 102 million into my local hospital since the last election . I welcome that wholeheartedly , but we must do more to speed up the arrival of NHS capital funding . the House be well aware of my campaign to get £ 118 million of capital investment that be promise to South Essex hospital in 2017 . the lion ' s share of that , £ 52 million , be promise for Southend Hospital and it be much need . I term that money the miss million and I have mention it 11 time in this House . last year , I get £ 8 million to secure improvement to our emergency department , and two year ago I be absolutely delighted to hear that the rest , the £ 110 million , be finally confirm and would be deliver in full . that will mean a modern endoscopy suite for Southend , an upgrade refurbish main theatre , more hospital bed and an upgrade emergency department : well and fast hospital care in well surrounding for all Southend ' s resident and those around who come to our hospital . well late than never , but we must do more to get that money through the bureaucracy fast than we have manage so far . that investment will be moot if my constituent can not get to the hospital . minister be aware that last year elderly resident be leave strand literally overnight when First Bus withdraw the no . 21 bus service , literally cut they off from Southend Hospital . work with First Bus I manage to reroute the no . 3 bus , but that be not good enough because it run only once every two hour . I reiterate the need to restore that bus service . I be delighted that , work with the previous Roads Minister , bus funding of almost £ 1 million be now come to Southend over two year , which should help to protect and enhance local bus service , include get the no . 21 back . I be now look forward very much to work with the new Roads Minister — as soon as I know who that be ! money be not the be all and end all for the future of our NHS . we be invest record sum , but what we need to 100 % focus on religiously be reform and prevention . here , I want to talk about something call the fracture liaison service . I recently visit the fracture clinic at Southend Hospital , which be to launch a new fracture liaison service in spring next year , with the support of the Mid and South Essex integrate care board . this will be the first fracture liaison service in the UK to have a single fls across an entire area , support consistent care across Mid and South Essex . in our region , there be an estimate 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 fragility fracture every year in adult age 50 or over , often cause patient to spend extended period in hospital , take up hospital bed and staff time . over five year , the new Southend FLS be expect to prevent 550 fracture , save half a million pound and 1 , 300 bed day every single year . if that be scale up nationally , we will be save 74 , 000 osteoporotic fracture and release 750 , 000 hospital bed day . service like this be truly the future of the NHS . their benefit be unquestionable . I look forward to see all region follow our lead in Southend to deliver saving and free up bed across the board . on waiting list , I be extremely disappointed to see the Times report erroneously that Southend be England ' s NHS waiting list hotspot . the number quote on waiting list do not include the total catchment population for Mid and South Essex , where waiting list today sit at approximately one in seven people , not one in five as be quote . it be disappointing to see prestigious lead national newspaper irresponsibly pump out the wrong information and not get their fact straight . of course I be not happy for any of my constituent to wait long than they should , but we must recognise that industrial action have play a part in the extension of waiting list across the NHS . Mid and South Essex NHS Foundation Trust have a recovery plan , and provide that there be no further industrial action it will virtually eliminate 65 - week wait — except in the case of some specialist service — by next March . however , we must have sustainable staffing in order to cut waiting list , which be why I welcome the proposal to deliver the NHS long - term workforce plan . like other , I also welcome the commitment to create a new smoke - free generation . that will save thousand of life , and it go without say that a healthy future for our child mean a more sustainable NHS . community pharmacy be already save 619 , 000 gp appointment every week — roughly 32 million a year — and remove the need for about 3 . 5 million people a year to visit a & E department and walk - in centre . give such staggering result , we must surely consider move more health service out of hospital and into the community . be it not also important for we to educate the public so that they know how much they can obtain from their local pharmacy rather than always rely on GP appointment or , indeed , associate professional ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend , and he have bring I neatly to my next point . the brilliant Belfairs and French ' s pharmacy in Leigh - on - Sea be run by an inspirational pharmacist , Mr Mohamed Fayyaz Haji , know as Fizz . the range of service that those pharmacy deliver be incredible , include cholesterol and blood pressure check , health advice and prescribing , and they be now expand into primary and community care , from ear syringe to community phlebotomy , early diagnosis measure such as measure prostate - specific antigen level to test for prostate cancer , electrocardiogram , ultrasound screening for sport injury , and service for pregnant woman . this be a model for community pharmacy care around the country that will keep people out of hospital unless they really need to be there . I be delighted that one of my key campaign have make it into the King ' s Speech . my campaign to ban all form of zombie knife will be enact through the criminal justice Bill , which will increase the maximum penalty for those who sell dangerous weapon to under - 18 and create a criminal offence of possession of a bladed article with intent to cause harm . be stab be the no . 1 fear for young people in Southend for the second year in a row , and I welcome the fact that the Bill will make our street in Southend safe . I see you look at I , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will summarise my next few point . bleed kit must be roll out , because the first person to reach a stab victim be often not an ambulance driver but someone from a pub , a club or a police car . if we support Julie Taylor ' s award - win campaign and roll out those bleed kit , we will save more life . no speech from I would be complete without my mentioning Southend United . I wholeheartedly welcome the football governance Bill , which will deliver a more sustainable future for football club such as Southend for generation to come . I believe that this King ' s Speech will deliver a healthy future , a strong economy , and a safe future for all the resident of Southend and Leigh - on - Sea , especially child , and I look forward to vote for it later this week . rise — Order . I be merely glance at the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) because I believe that the previous occupant of the Chair encourage member to speak for about eight or nine minute so that we can get everyone in equitably . the issue that we have all be discuss today , and will discuss far , be extremely important , but look at what be happen globally , they appear extremely trivial . the unbearable terror , suffering and death of innocent civilian in the middle east , in Gaza and Israel , must stop , which be why I have add my name to the call for an immediate ceasefire . this country be in crisis . our public service be collapse , a climate change crisis be upon we , and working - class people be suffer a horrendous cost of living crisis that be drain they of the resource that they and their family need just to lead basic , decent life . in my constituency of Wansbeck , ordinary family be bear the brunt of this Government ' s utter failure . child poverty be surge , mutual aid group and food bank be stretch to the limit , and business be suffer because of the lack of available finance . a Government with even an iota of human decency would have present to the House a legislative plan for the next year that could address those grave crisis , but instead they have deliver an agenda that will do absolutely nothing to alleviate the strain that these problem be cause our people . in fact , they be happy to draft statute to make the crisis even bad . the people I proudly represent in south - east Northumberland know what it be like to be forget , to be neglect , and to be offer nothing by this Government . they also know that it be Tory Governments who have cause many of the problem that they face — not just those cause by the past 13 year of disastrous Tory rule , but the legacy of previous Tory Governments as well . it be the Tories who , over the year , have not only destroy the industrial base that we have need to produce well - pay job , but pass and continue to pass anti - trade union legislation that will deprive working - class people in my area and all over the UK of the mean to obtain the decent wage that they deserve . we be live with the legacy of the anti - trade union law that begin with the Thatcher regime . that legacy be a low - wage economy in which even worker in what should be very well - pay job struggle to make end meet . those law have make it hard for union to organise themselves in workplace , and have create rule for industrial action that be some of the most restrictive in the world . the legal obstacle to organise a successful strike ballot be immense , and have give the employer an unfair advantage in dispute in which trade union member have rightly ask for a fair wage . it be not surprising that many worker now face fall living standard , and the stressful day - to - day torment of try to make end meet . where in the King ' s Speech be the much - promise employment Bill to protect people in employment ? where be the abolition of zero - hour contract , and the abolition of fire and rehire in the workplace ? the last 13 year have see wage across many sector decline in real term , force many of our fellow citizen to take strike action . they have be determine enough to fight these injustice that they have overcome the treacherous anti - strike law design to thwart they . the Government have antagonise worker up and down the country , include many who be classify as key worker , who drive the country through the bad pandemic and some of the dark time in history . strike and industrial action continue at the like of the bus company Go North East , and balloting be take place even at Oxfam — an organisation that pride itself on look after the deprived and the poor — which have amass a fortune , but still not enough to pay the workforce properly . there be pocket of strike action in the civil service and elsewhere in the public sector . I ask again , where be the employment right Bill that the Government have promise for so long ? in the private sector , individual have see their wage decline at the same time as company director and ceo have see their remuneration package grow grotesquely . in the public sector , many of those we value so highly and who show their dedication to serve we so courageously during the covid pandemic have be force to take action not only to seek to restore their own wage but to try and redress the crippling staff shortage cause by Tory neglect . in the NHS , staff shortage have be create by a long - term Tory public sector wage squeeze , which have also make staff retention and recruitment extremely difficult . that have be a major factor in the decline of our public service , especially in the NHS . the NHS be hold together by the glue that be the dedication , passion and commitment of the staff , and we should all pay tribute to every single one of they . where in this King ' s Speech be there anything to do with the deterioration of our people ' s health , cause as a direct result of the wilful Tory neglect of the NHS ? for instance , why be there nothing to improve the cancer waiting list that be endanger so many life ? in my area , the privately operate Rutherford Centre be be use by the NHS for cancer scanning and treatment . in June 2022 , the company that own it go into liquidation and it remain closed to this day . it remain empty and its treatment room be silent through Tory indifference . it be lock up and idle , but it could be help individual with cancer . the King ' s Speech could have be use to announce full compensation payment to parent and child who have suffer the loss of love one as a consequence of the blood contamination scandal . these people have be promise time and time again that full compensation would be pay . it be undoubtedly the bad tragedy in the history of the NHS , and I fear that many more victim of this tragedy will die before the Government agree to pay full compensation as well as interim repayment to some of the individual . my constituent Sean Cavens be among those victim . they have all suffer and they have be tret terribly . the King ' s Speech could have recognise their suffering and that of so many other , but it do not , because the Tories simply do not care . this issue can not continue to be kick into the long grass . victim be die on a daily basis , and the recent reshuffle , only hour ago , mean that the Minister in charge of the contaminate blood tragedy have now leave their post , leave the victim at a loss over who will take charge of this absolutely desperate situation . I would love the Minister who be sum up to tell the victim of contaminate blood who will be in charge and , as victim of the NHS fail to comply with the regulation all those year ago , tell they when they will receive fair and right compensation . the Government have announce in the King ' s Speech that they intend to use the power they create under the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 to lay down minimum service level during strike in the health service , transport service and other sector . that will force many into work against their will and allow they to be sack if they refuse . it will be do without negotiate with the union , in the dictatorial manner that we have come to expect from anti - trade - union fanatic . it will be chaotic , undemocratic in the extreme and probably illegal under international labour law . the government consistently manifest their disdain for democracy , whether by attack people ' s right to strike or through undermine our freedom to protest , yet they have the nerve to say that they be the true guardian of british value . let we not forget that this Tory Government recently reveal that their only constant principle be to encourage greed and help those who have the most already . in a country in which we have the disgrace of family have to rely on food bank to live , the Tories think it be more important to remove the restriction on banker ’ bonus than to meaningfully address the need of the poor and the low - pay . that be in sharp contrast to the value show by the shadow Deputy Prime Minister , who have pledge that within the first 100 day of a Labour Government , the recent anti - strike measure will be repeal and measure will be create to allow trade union to organise more freely . there be lot more , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I see many other wait to speak . I want to hear something in the King ' s Speech about the gigafactory in my constituency , which be again neglect ; it never receive a penny from the Government , from the automotive transformation fund , to progress lot of job in my area . that do not happen . why be it not in the King ' s Speech ? I represent a mining area . why be there nothing in the King ' s Speech on the surplus that the Government be rob from the mineworker ' pension scheme , and why be there nothing on the change regulation on pneumoconiosis and mesothelioma , when people be die on a regular basis ? the Government be die , and they have nothing to offer but further chaos and despair . the King ' s Speech be evidence of this terrible state of affair , and we need to strip aside the bad Government in live memory . I emphasise that we need to think of other and try to stick to the advisory guidance . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will do my very good . I agree with one thing that the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) say . he talk about the contaminated blood scandal , and I want to see that compensation move forward as swiftly as possible . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) on his excellent maiden speech and welcome he to his place . he be clearly a great local champion and I look forward to he deliver for his constituent . I apologise to colleague if my speech slightly err from the main topic of this debate on the NHS to focus on education , but as Chair of the Education Committee , there be important thing I have to say and unfortunately we be in session while the education debate be take place . touch on health , I welcome the focus in the Gracious Speech on support the NHS , cut waiting list and implement the much - need NHS workforce plan . in particular I welcome the change to that plan to allow the three newly approve medical school to begin train doctor from next year rather than from 2025 . that will make a huge difference in Worcester , and I be grateful to the Health Committee for have I as a guest when we be examine official on that and push the case for it . I also raise it with the Prime Minister in the Liaison Committee . allow those doctor to train in Worcester will help with retention and recruitment , and it will support our local NHS . I welcome more investment in mental health service , but I would observe from my work on the Education Committee that in child and adolescent mental health service that can not come soon enough . I support the aim of create a smoke - free generation , which I believe strike a sensible balance between public health and individual freedom . this Government have deliver a great deal for my local NHS , and a massive £ 15 million expansion of the emergency department at the Worcester Royal Hospital be only the late stage of that investment , but we continue to suffer from a capacity challenge in our Worcestershire hospital that have be in place since the last Labour Government close Kidderminster A & E without properly plan for space in either Worcester or Redditch . I sincerely hope that the new emergency department , with its dedicated paediatric emergency department , will make a real difference alongside the pipeline of new and much - need junior doctor through the medical school . the recent decision of the acute trust to declare a critical incident at the very start of winter pressure in November reflect the ongoing pressure that we face . turn to education , unlock opportunity should be the very essence of any Government ' s education and skill policy , and it be certainly a key mantra for the Education Committee , which I be privileged to chair . I welcome the commitment to apprenticeship in the Gracious Speech — I know that the Secretary of State and the Minister for Skills share my Committee ' s passion for vocational learning and for people earn while they learn — and I be excite by the prospect of more detail on the advanced british standard , but I be concern by the absence of long - promise and frankly overdue legislation on attendance . when I be school Minister , the Department for Education accept a recommendation from the Select Committee to implement a register of child not in school . when I discuss that with the chief inspector , the Children ' s Commissioner , school leader , multi - academy trust , union and council , they be clear about both the urgency and the importance of this measure . I help official to draft legislation and to prepare handle for the register as part of the wide Schools Bill , and it be commit to both in the White Paper and in the House . although there have since be many — some would say too many — change to personnel in the Department , I have be reassure by the excellent Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , who be both my predecessor and my successor and whose ministerial career sadly end today , and by the Secretary of State that they support the measure . the Secretary of State tell the Select Committee that it be a top legislative priority for the Department , which be simply seek the right vehicle to deliver it . this be why the Committee recommend in two report that the legislation should be bring forward even in the absence of the wide Schools Bill . we hear in this Chamber from the Opposition Front Bench and from conservative member of the Education Committee the strong cross - party support for such a measure . we hear in the Lords debate on the now defunct Schools Bill a cacophony of opposition to other element of the Bill but near unanimity on the importance of a register . the Centre for Social Justice call it " overdue " and " necessary " , and in my many discussion with school leader and council , most have be exasperate that this mechanism be not already in place . in July , the Secretary of State reply to my question on the matter : " my Department remain committed to legislate for statutory local authority register of child not in school and will do so at the next suitable legislative opportunity " . — [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 603 . ] my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) bring forward a private Member ' s Bill in the previous Session , with cross - party support , that would have deliver the statutory register as a stand - alone measure . I can see no reason why the Bill could not have be adopt at once by the Government . indeed , we highlight this in our report on persistent absence and make recommendation to the Government , include the specific recommendation that the register should be bring forward , on a cross - party basis , as part of the King ' s Speech . I be disappointed that opportunity have be miss . nevertheless , the legislation have be draft . we have repeatedly hear about the strong support it enjoy on both side of the House , and in the other place it have be champion by Cross Benchers and noble Lords on both side of the House . I therefore repeat the Education Committee ' s recommendation that the Government should adopt a private Member ' s Bill on this matter at the first available opportunity . I will do what I can to ensure any such Bill make rapid progress , and I be happy to work with member across the House to make sure it have a prominent place in the business of this Parliament . there be other measure in the late Schools Bill that I would also have like to see resurrect . among they be the delivery of statutory guidance on attendance , which the Children ' s Commissioner speak about in Parliament today , and fair funding for our school — the next step in deliver the fair funding formula . I have campaign throughout my time in Parliament for fair funding in education , and this be vital for our mainstream school — there be important change to the funding mechanism that I hope the Government will consider bring forward — but it be even more vital for the specialist and high - need sector . it be great to hear my new hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip talk about want to champion SEND child in his constituency , and that be something we all want to do . the high - need formula be not work properly , and every local authority have a deficit in that space . I join 40 mp from both side of the House in sign a letter call for more investment . I be pleased to welcome the aspiration for the advanced british standard to deliver great parity between vocational and academic qualification . I look forward to hear more on this from the Department in due course . the past 13 year have see England rise up international league table for academic achievement , become the good in the west for literacy and improve our performance in math . there be great challenge in the recruitment and retention of specialist teacher , and I hope the Government will listen closely to the recommendation in the Committee ' s upcoming report on those challenge . the aspiration for more child to study math to 18 , and for there to be a well mix of vocational and academic subject , be good . if we be to achieve the full potential , however , it be vital that we do not just focus on a - level equivalent qualification ; we must also deliver for those who do not currently achieve a pass at GCSE . the school White Paper set out a worthy aspiration to reduce the so - call " forget third " by raise standard in English and math by the end of primary school . whatever change there be in personnel , I hope Ministers will stand by that worthwhile and ambitious aim . we also need to look at GCSE resit . it be a fundamental problem in our system that in order to progress , whether to university or to an apprenticeship , people need a pass in math and english gcse , and only around a quarter of those who take resit ever succeed in get that vital qualification to move forward . we need to offer a wide range of qualification to people who do not get a pass the first time round , so that we can see real progression and the removal of barrier . finally , I will touch on the international situation . like mps on both side of the House , I want to see progress towards peace in the middle east , I have hear from hundred of constituent with deep concern about the humanitarian situation in Gaza , and I share the solidarity with innocent civilian in the palestinian territory that the Prime Minister , among other , have express . I very much understand the concern that have be raise by member of both the jewish and muslim community in Worcester about the importance of protect civilian . we all want to see an end to the fighting and progress towards a two - state solution , but I be as appal as anyone by the brutality of Hamas ' s attack on israeli civilian . I recognise that any country face such an assault have a right to self - defence , but I urge colleague in government to be critical and clear - sighted friend of Israel and champion of a two - state solution , and to remember the full wording of the Balfour declaration : " it be clearly understand that nothing shall be do which may prejudice the civil and religious right of exist non - jewish community in Palestine " . we should continue to oppose antisemitism wherever it occur , and we should continue to do all we can to get humanitarian aid to the innocent civilian in the palestinian territory who be victim of Hamas ' s atrocity as much as their intended target . in particular , as a key supporter and author of the millennium development goal , we should do all that we can to protect child . as I say the other day to the Development Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , if more humanitarian pause or more humanitarian access and support can achieve this , I hope the UK will play a lead role in secure they . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) . the King ' s Speech be more notable for what be not in it . on the day , critic call it the " all mouth and no trouser " speech . in fact , it have the few Bills in a monarch ' s speech since 2014 . People in my Salford constituency look at it and wonder , " what be in it to make my life well ? what be there to help with the cost of living ? what be there to support public service , to improve our broken public transport system or to address the NHS crisis ? " sadly , the answer be nothing . the mental health Bill be abandon yet again , despite be a manifesto promise in 2017 and 2019 , and despite there be a clear mental health crisis . there be no conversion therapy ban , despite it be promise repeatedly by the Government . what be actually in the King ' s Speech ? well , the big flagship policy seem to be the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , which completely undermine the Government ' s so - call commitment to net zero . staggeringly , even the Government admit that the Bill will do nothing to bring down household bill . the King ' s Speech also talk about implement minimum service level . of course , this be a reference to underpaid and , frankly , burn - out public sector worker strike for fair pay and adequate funding for their service , which be in a state of acute crisis . the irony be that the Government can not deliver minimum service level on a day - to - day basis in the NHS because of chronic underfunding and underpay , never mind on strike day . I wish to elaborate on the staffing crisis within the NHS . More than 112 , 000 vacancy be record across NHS England in March . at the time , both the Royal College of Nursing and the British Medical Association warn that staffing level be not meet patient demand and that this be put patient safety at risk . far , the Royal College of Nursing state that nursing staff be leave the profession " in drove " , often because the stress and demand of the job do not match their current pay level . it say that one nurse can be leave look after 10 , 15 or even more patient . those ratio be unsafe and require urgent action from the Government . there be also a two - tier system for nursing staff , with different pay for the same job , as there be no parity of pay , term and condition across all the sector in which nurse work . the position for midwife be equally dire , and midwifery now make up a small slice of the NHS workforce than at any time on record . there be a big difference between the english region , too . in the 12 month to July 2023 , the number of midwife in the east of England rise by almost 9 % , but in the north - west the number rise by just over 1 % . the Nursing and Midwifery Council have say : " there be clear warning workforce pressure be drive people away . " it find that 27 , 000 professional have leave the register in the UK in the year to the end of March 2023 and that although retirement be the most common reason for leave , the next most common reason be health and exhaustion . the real - world consequence of this crisis in midwifery be be feel in Salford . ingleside birth and community centre be a freestande midwife - lead birth centre for antenatal and post - natal care , as well as low - risk birthing . it be situate in the middle of the beautiful Oakwood park in Salford . this state - of - the - art facility be open a few year ago to address the absence of local maternity service after the closure of the maternity unit at Salford Royal Hospital in 2011 . sadly , because of a midwife shortage , the facility have be close since the pandemic , leave Salford resident , family , new parent and their new - bear baby without access to maternity service in the city . new parent and their new - bear baby be force to travel many mile across Greater Manchester to access these service . even when they reach these service , which be mile away from their home , resource pressure and reduced staffing appear to be negatively impact the remain service at other location . one mother explain the situation to I : " I have recently give birth to my third child and the deterioration of service be shocking and have cause significant trauma to myself and my family . . . I experience medical negligence , epistemic and testimonial injustice and disability discrimination throughout pregnancy , birth and in the postnatal period " . unfortunately , that mother ' s story be not a one - off . make Birth well estimate that about 200 , 000 people a year find some aspect of give birth traumatic , yet 30 % of new parent suffer from mental and / or physical trauma after give birth do not feel they be be support . it be no surprise that we be hear these story , as the Government have chronically underfunde NHS maternity service — a commitment to only one third of the funding recommend by the Health and Social Care Committee be make recently . of course , the Government will say that they be respond to the staffing crisis and will cite their NHS workforce plan , but the Public Accounts Committee have criticise the plan heavily in a new report . in particular , it have criticise the lack of funding estimate and raise concern about how the plan will be achieve . although an additional £ 2 . 4 billion be to be provide to cover training cost for the first five year of the 15 - year plan , no estimate have be put forward of total additional running cost beyond that for the hundred of thousand of extra worker the plan say will be need by 2036 - 37 . the Government may refer to the education pipeline , but for every burn - out experienced nurse who leave the profession , it take at least three year to educate a new nurse . it have be estimate that one in three nurse leave their course cite financial challenge and poor support as reason for leave , and trainee doctor report feel burn out . clearly , the Government need to take urgent action to increase the number of those training in NHS profession . they should listen to call from the Royal College of Nursing to forgive tuition debt for all current nursing and midwifery student and to abolish self - fund tuition fee for all future nursing , midwifery and ally health student . that must be accompany by a package for student , include a living cost grant that reflect the true cost of living and access to hardship payment . to keep those staff , the Government must listen to the alarm bell be ring by the NHS workforce , who do not want to take strike action but be simply desperate . pay they properly and fund their service . may I join my right hon . friend the Prime Minister in thank his Majesty for his Gracious Speech , as there be much in it to commend ? as this issue be dear to my heart and the heart of many councillor in Bedford borough , let I thank the Government for say that they will introduce change on estate management charge to homeowner . those charge affect perhaps 1 million homeowner across the country and this be an unregulated area . it be important that those people have improve right to challenge and I look forward to see what the Government come forward with . let I also say what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) . like many of her colleague , she bemoan the fact that the King ' s Speech contain so few Bills and that the Government be not try to do more . let I make a counter point : many people think that the Government be already try to do too much . these people be feed up with their business and life be too regulated , and their taxis be too high . they be feed up with be tell what they can and can not say , and when they can and can not demonstrate . People want to be free to live their life . government can play an important enable role , but I say to she that the most important thing be the quality of the legislation propose , which we all have a role in form , rather than the quantity . the topic of today ' s debate be an NHS fit for the future . when I become the MP for North East Bedfordshire , it be clear that growth in population and in housing be drive many of the issue that affect my generally rural constituency . that be why " infrastructure first " , whereby we get the infrastructure in place before put in more housing , be important for the future , while recognise that the growth over the previous two decade have have a significant impact , most importantly on primary care . I have visit literally every gp practice in my constituency and spend an hour there , with one exception — it be still to come . I have find out about discrete issue that be important in how local resident feel about their GP service , include the choice of phone system . I think that the move to the cloud - base phone system by the NHS be welcome . I find out how people feel about the skill mix , where we have more non - GPs . some part of the community find that make the transition from see their normal gp to see another differently qualified member of staff create problem , but in the long term it be useful . I find out that the different methodology for access primary care — not just walk in or get an appointment by phone , but get access through email , the net or an app — have create extra pressure on primary care doctor . however , they be there to see it through to the end and they think it will have long - term benefit . I thank all my local gps across the constituency . a couple have particular difficulty , but I be pleased to say that progress in those two practice have be substantial since change have be make . despite the fact that all member here feel that primary care have go through quite a difficult process after the covid experience , in my constituency we have make progress , although there be still more to be make . it be a shame to see my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) move from his role in primary care , not least because I have just arrange a meeting with he and the leader of Central Bedfordshire Council to discuss the Biggleswade health hub . may I make a quick plea to those on the Front Bench that that meeting should be put back on the schedule as soon as possible ? social prescribing be mention by the Minister in her opening remark and it be a positive initiative . I visit the Bedfordshire Rural Communities Charity , which have take on that responsibility . what a great form of outreach that charity and its volunteer and recruit have take on with this role of social prescribing . in addition , there be a bit of pressure on local pharmacy , with some of the national change alter their strategy . other , however , be come forward with positive initiative , include Jardines pharmacy in Biggleswade , which have just launch its out - of - hour , Amazon box - type option for people to get their prescription . in discuss improvement , I wish to mention four area where there be change . on capital for the NHS , the issue be not primarily one of need more money . capital for the NHS in this five - year period will be 60 % great than it be in the previous five - year period . the issue be the process by which that capital be allocate and the choice that be make . we be also see people come forward to help with capital . we recently have a change in the elect mayoralty in Bedford , with the replacement of a Liberal Democrat Mayor by a conservative one , Tom Wootton . I be delighted that as one of his first measure , he have provide capital from the council ' s budget to bring forward the provision of primary care service in the constituency and the rest of the borough . I look forward to those improvement be make in Great Barford and in other constituency — I know it be happen in Wixams and Wootton . I commend an elect Conservative Mayor as the way to get local primary NHS facility improve . well do , Mayor Tom Wootton . we need to provide more access for private capital if we be to enable a range of diagnostic centre across the country . I think that people be prepared to put private capital in place , but decision right on how we all access diagnostic need to be give to we , not hold by the NHS . because of the limitation on time , I will mention compensation briefly . how on earth do we end up with a GP pay system that mean that those who choose their hour and do not take on the responsibility of be a partner end up get pay more lucratively than those who be full time or who be partner GPs ? we need to reinforce the partner GP model , not turn our back on it . I know that the Government be in discussion with junior doctor about this , but the circumstance in which we train our doctor have change substantially . there be much great global competition , both in term of try to bring people to the UK — the NHS brand be not as strong as it use to be — and in what people will do when they leave their training , such as move to the middle east or to other health market . we also need to recognise that many of our junior doctor now carry student debt , which the original model do not anticipate that they would have , and therefore the charging of ongoing fee for annual training be important . we must also recognise that junior doctor want to spend most of their time training and be with patient . the Government should look acutely at way they can reduce the admin burden . on decision authority , it seem odd to have a system where integrate care board bring together local council and the local NHS — my area have a £ 2 billion annual budget — yet local people who understand local health need have almost zero decision right over how that money be spend . I do not see how the future of the NHS in the long term can be such a top - down , budget - drive system with so little local discretion if it be to succeed . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , who make an interesting speech . he talk about the progress in primary care in his area . sadly , I do not see such progress in south Manchester , where patient and GPs be in despair at the state of primary care after 13 year of Conservative - lead government . we desperately need real change and new idea for public service . all that we have be a damp squib of a King ' s Speech , devoid of idea and more interested in wedge issue than the country ' s good interest . I will start by look at measure that relate to the NHS — two that be not in the Bill and one that it be . as a number of member have say , it be desperately disappointing that there be no mental health Bill in the King ' s Speech . this be an opportunity to strengthen safeguard and give new protection to vulnerable people . alongside the demise of the mental health plan , the absence of such a Bill be a worrying signal about the Government ' s priority for mental health . I be really pleased that the labour shadow Secretary of State have pledge that we will introduce a mental health Bill in a future Labour King ' s Speech . I also would have like to have see a measure to address the crisis in medical cannabis . it be now five year since medical cannabis be legalised in this country , and we have a handful of NHS prescription — literally ; they can be count on the finger of one hand — while many thousand of people be get private prescription for medical cannabis and pay hundred and hundred of pound a month , cost they an absolute fortune . we absolutely need to address that . I recommend the private Member ' s Bill that I introduce a couple of year ago to address that issue as a model for the Government to start from . a measure that be in the speech be the tobacco and vape Bill . I will always support measure to reduce the scourge of smoking , and I welcome measure to reduce the 5 million disposable vape that be use every week in this country . we will certainly lend the Government the vote that they may need to get the measure through . much play have be make of the idea that nobody under the age of 14 will ever be able to buy cigarette legally . the emphasis have to be on the word " legally " . I have often stand up in this Chamber to say that prohibition often do not work . I really hope that the Government will give careful consideration to the impact that the Bill will have on the illegal market and organise criminal gang — a point make early by my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . we will certainly support the Bill , but this need to be do carefully . let I turn to probably the single most disappointing measure in the King ' s Speech . with COP28 come up , the speech be an opportunity to set out a platform for a green future . the Government could have introduce measure to make it easy to build onshore windfarm , to sort out the electricity grid so that we can all be connect to clean energy , or to bring in a programme of energy efficiency and low - carbon heating . those be all thing that a Labour King ' s Speech would have do . instead , we get the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , which will allow oil and gas company to bid for new licence to drill for fossil fuel every year , ride roughshod over our net zero plan . last year , british household be the bad hit by the energy crisis in western Europe because of our high dependency on gas . for million of household , bill this year will be even bad . the Government briefing say that the Bill will " reduce reliance on volatile international energy market " . it will not . there be not enough gas and oil in our offshore field to make any difference to the price set by the international market . the Government themselves have already admit that the Bill will not do anything to reduce energy bill , and it rubbish our effort to fight the climate crisis . every respected body , from the International Energy Agency to the UN , the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Climate Change Committee , have warn of the danger of award new oil and gas licence . the Tories ' own former net zero tsar , the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , say : " there be no such thing as a new net zero oilfield . " a former Chair of the Climate Change Committee warn early this year that government inaction on net zero " have be compound by continue support for further unnecessary investment in fossil fuel . " the Bill will not deliver energy security . the way to deliver energy security be to boost our economy and stake our future on clean energy . that be what Labour will do , upgrade a million home with our warm home plan and deliver a clean electricity system by 2030 . I have talk about the bad aspect of the King ' s Speech ; let I mention some positive . Leasehold be a century ' old , unfair system . almost every country in the world apart from our have end it . Britain ' s feudal leasehold system have leave million trap in expensive housing with ever - increase service charge and fee . it be the root cause of the abuse and poor service that so many homeowner experience at the hand of manage agent , and Labour have be press the government to fundamentally reform and overhaul the leasehold system for a long time . I welcome the Government ' s announcement that they will finally reform leasehold . it be long overdue , and they have not go far enough ; the Government ' s new rule will apply only to new home , and there be nothing to rule out commonhold for new flat , which make up the majority of leasehold property . a Labour Government would fundamentally and comprehensively reform the leasehold sector . the system need a complete overhaul so that exist leaseholder can collectively purchase more easily and move to commonhold if they wish . labour would enact the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , commonhold and right to manage in full . I welcome the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be also long overdue . I be concern about delay to some of the key measure , particularly section 21 no - fault eviction , which continue to leave renter vulnerable at the height of a cost of living crisis . labour would strengthen the Bill to ensure that it meet the scale of the housing crisis that the Government have preside over , but we welcome reform to the rental market . I warmly welcome the Football Governance Bill . our national game have need reform for year to protect the club that be at the heart of our community . I congratulate the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) on her excellent fan - lead review , and I be really pleased that the Government ' s White Paper contain most of her recommendation , particularly on the key issue of independent regulation and the protection of club ' heritage asset . my personal view be that more could have be do on financial redistribution , particularly the transfer levy . it be a shame that that be not mention in the White Paper . perhaps after the consultation and when the Bill progress , the Government can look at that again , so that we can really get the money that need to go down the pyramid to support grassroots football . we welcome that Bill , look forward to its become law and will work with the Government to make it happen , because that be the right thing to do . I will not test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , so in two line I will mention two more Bills : the Media Bill — excellent . I be pleased that we be finally get a Bill to protect public service broadcasting , but I be disappointed that a ban on conversion therapy have not be introduce . that be a betrayal of LGBT people who have be promise it by countless Tories , include Ministers , for a long time , yet that broken promise put people at risk . I will close by mention the future . we know the Prime Minister be a fan of " Star Wars " but we do not know that he be a fan of " back to the future " . Lord David Cameron — really ? he be the future once , but do anybody really think he be the answer to this country ' s problem or that he be the change we need ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . we need real change in the future but that change have to be a Labour Government . as we begin the final session of this Parliament , we do so for the first time in more than 70 year debate a king ' s Speech . I be pleased that this King ' s Speech lay out a comprehensive legislative programme for the forthcoming year : an ambitious set of reform that will help boost economic growth , strengthen society and make Britain a safe and healthy place . have look back at my contribution in this place over the last four year , there be a couple of Bills I want to spend time talk about , because the subject they address have dominate what I have say . first and foremost , the subject of the debate be " build an NHS fit for the future " . the reason I be keen to take part in the debate be because the NHS have be front and centre of my campaigning in Warrington South , before and since become its Member of Parliament . since 2019 , we have see the benefit that government investment in our local health service be make in Warrington , include a new £ 5 million radiology centre at Warrington Hospital , with state - of - the - art MRI and CT scanner , and £ 6 million to extend the emergency department , build a new same - day emergency care unit to speed up discharge and free up capacity . money from Warrington ' s £ 21 million town deal have fund a new health and social care academy so that we can train people to work in our health and social care sector in the future , and a mammography unit have boost screening capacity . I have name but a few project in Warrington , but there be still much more to do . put in place the right health infrastructure and training more doctor , dentist and nurse be vital for the long - term future of our national health service . I regularly speak to regional NHS leader who tell I that the extra funding the Government be put into Warrington be make a difference to people and staff alike in Warrington . in fact , there be more doctor , nurse and staff work in GP practice and the hospital today in Warrington than there be in 2019 . however , there be two area relate to health infrastructure where we need to go far . Warrington ' s status as a new town have mean its population have go from 60 , 000 in the late 1960 to more than 200 , 000 today . when I become the MP for Warrington South , I promise to campaign for a brand new hospital for our town , not because I want it but because Warrington need it . work together with local health chief and local cross - party politician , we put forward plan that would allow that to be deliver . so far we have not manage to achieve that , but there be simply not enough bed to cope with the demand , nor sufficient parking space for patient , visitor and staff . the facility we have today be not fit for a town of 200 , 000 resident . when the Minister for Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , who be on the Front Bench early , come to visit in January last year , she see for herself the challenge that we face in our A & E unit . the other infrastructure issue I want to raise relate to the building of new GP surgery in area where new home have be build . on Friday , I meet with local GP Dr Jain , at the Appleton medical centre . she show I around and , understandably , she be keen to progress from a first floor consulting suite with limited parking space in Appleton to a new surgery that be be fund by section 106 contribution from the local developer of all those house that have be build . however , the process of secure an agreement to build be be delay because of challenge in agree price with the district valuer . one of my key ask for the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be to help unlock the funding and make progress on build the new health centre that be now urgently need for our grow town . I will touch briefly on a couple of other area mention in the King ' s Speech that I have speak about in the Chamber on numerous occasion , include the leasehold reform Bill . I have speak many time on behalf of resident in Chapelford about the crucial need for change in the law to protect those who be trap in the leasehold system . home , particularly in the Chapelford area of my constituency , have be build under leasehold system . I have be deal with the issue on an almost daily basis since become the Member of Parliament for Warrington South . in common with colleague across the House , I have constituent who face an endless array of problem with leasehold — include high service charge , and draw - out and complicated process to get information about the leasehold on their home , with people have to spend money to get that information if they be able to obtain it at all — so I welcome the leasehold and freehold Bill . like the hon . member for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) , I be pleased to see the Media Bill , which I and colleague on both side of the House have be push for . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary medium group and of the APPG on commercial radio , I have spend a lot of time look at and work on the issue . it be hard to explain to constituent why we want to prioritise a Media Bill , but the truth be that if we do not get today ' s legislation right , frankly , it will be the only such legislation we see for 20 year , and what we watch on our tv and listen to on our radio station will be control not by what happen here in Parliament , but by what happen with tech company on the west coast of America . that be why it be so important that we get the Media Bill right . when the last medium Bill come through Parliament 20 year ago , Facebook be not around , we do not have streaming service and people listen to a radio station not through an on - demand speaker , but through a dial that they tune . all those thing have change and we need to get the legislation right to ensure that viewer and listener in this country be protect , and get to listen to and see public service radio and tv in the way they should . finally , I will briefly touch on the Government ' s criminal justice agenda . as a magistrate , I know all too well how important it be to ensure that justice be see to be do , so I very much welcome measure on proportionate sentencing and power to compel criminal to hear their verdict read out in court . I do not want to take up any more time , Madam Deputy Speaker . to sum up , the King ' s Speech contain a strong and promising agenda from the Government . there be lot of work to be do , and I be look forward to another year of healthy debate and parliamentary scrutiny , so that we can get these important reform on to the statue book over the next 12 month . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) . I agree with some of what he say , but I do not agree that the King ' s Speech be ambitious , although it be graciously deliver and historic . a consensus be build not that there be much that be bad in the King ' s Speech , but just that there be not much . for those of we who live in rural community — know the challenge we face , particularly when it come to the health service — that feel particularly hard to take . when it come to our health service , one issue that rural community have in common be the distance people have to travel for care and treatment . that be particularly the case when it come to cancer treatment . the average age of member of my community of south Cumbria and Westmorland be more than 10 year above the national average , and sadly cancer be a disease of ageing and therefore there be a great incidence of cancer ; and yet , 99 % of my constituent have to travel beyond the recommend time — 45 minute maximum — to get to radiotherapy treatment at our near centre , the Rosemere cancer centre in Preston . that be a brilliant unit , by the way , but it be an awfully long way for people from Grasmere or Coniston , who be look at a three - hour round trip every day to get treatment . People be often not refer for that treatment in the first place because their clinician realise they be not able to make the journey ; other do not take the treatment by personal choice or they simply do not complete treatment — and as a consequence , we see long journey lead to short life . there be a plan for a new radiotherapy satellite unit at the Westmorland General Hospital . I be pleased to discuss that with the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) only the other day , so I be gutte that he have now leave his ministerial position . on the record , I ask his successor to honour that meeting and the work we have be do together to try to bring radiotherapy to Kendal . I worry greatly that the " building hospital for the future " programme could move that Preston hospital , which be already too far away from our community , even far south to South Ribble . hospice be also a major part of our armoury in tackle cancer and support those live with it . of course , their cost have go through the roof in recent time because of energy cost . they get only 21 % of their funding from the national health service . hospice serve our community , such as our in Eden Valley , St Mary ' s in Ulverston and St John ' s in Lancaster , have see zero uplift to take account of the fact that their energy bill have treble in recent time . let I comment on the future of Westmorland General Hospital in Kendal , which be of great importance as it be at the very heart of our community . we have see good movement , with chemotherapy come to our hospital after many year away , a new mental health unit , and growth in the amount of surgery that take place there . however , we have see the cancellation of overnight cover at Westmorland General Hospital three night a week , mean that people from Kendal , Burneside , Staveley and elsewhere be now expect a doctor to come on call to they all the way from Penrith , which be a massive reduction in the quality of service and something that be promise year ago would never happen . let I turn to dentistry . I have intercept a document from the chief executive of our integrate care board , berate his manager for not cut deeply enough , at a time when , in Kendal , people ' s near dentist — if they be try to find an NHS one today — be in Preston . if they be in Kirkby Stephen , it be all the way over in Hexham in Northumberland . half of all the child in my constituency have no access to an NHS dentist , and only a third of adult have that access . in Grange - over - Sands , where we lose an NHS surgery recently , a family be offer the chance to go private with the same surgery at the cost of £ 1 , 000 a year just to be register with that practice . that be in addition to all the other cost of living challenge that that family , or any other in those community , be face . what be all the more appalling be that , through our taxis , these folk in my community have already pay for their NHS dentistry , yet they be be expect to pay again . some just about pull the money together and afford to do it , but most do not and be leave in staggeringly poor dental health ; we also see the failure to pick up oral cancer as a consequence of people not attend the dentist . gp surgery be of great importance to we , as they be everywhere . in recent time , we have fight and successfully save the Goodly Dale surgery in Bowness , the Central Lakes medical practice in Ambleside and Hawkshead , and , most recently , the practice at Haverthwaite , but the ongoing threat to our surgery in rural community such as mine come from the fact that they cover vast area , have relatively small role and , therefore , struggle financially . I have repeatedly call on the Government to bring in a strategic small surgery fund to make it possible for small rural GP surgery to survive and serve their community safely . over the 18 and a half year that I have serve in this place , the big single increase in volume of casework have come from mental health issue among young people , and it be utterly and totally heartbreaking . fifty per cent of young people on the book of child and adolescent mental health service in Cumbria and north Lancashire at the moment be those present with autism spectrum disorder , or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder — very often wait two year just to be see at all . that 50 % of the workload be for those neurological condition that do not attract any funding whatever from our local commissioner — nothing at all . those young people be be hold up in the system . they be be leave to rot , as be their family and other young people , include those with eat disorder and anxiety disorder . if a 15 - year - old be to break their leg on a football field on a Sunday afternoon , they would be see within a couple of hour . if a person break something invisible inside they , they may wait month or even year to be treat , sometimes with fatal consequence . that be utterly and totally outrageous . we need to tackle the subject of mental health at the beginning , so that we build resilience in young people , not just treat the symptom . that be why I recommend the Government pick up my private Member ' s Bill on outdoor education , which would compel every Government to fund every single child — once in primary school and once in secondary school — to take part in an outdoor education residential experience to build their resilience , help they to develop teamwork , and ensure that they be able to deal with the stuff that life throw at all of we at one time or another . finally , let I mention care . with many people above the average age in our community , it be no accident that 32 % of our hospital bed be block early this year . why be that ? it be because there be not enough carer , and we do not pay those carer enough or treat they well enough . the consequence be the clogging up of our national health service from top to bottom — from a & E and ambulance response time to GP surgery and everything else . until we tackle the care crisis , we will not tackle the NHS crisis . in a community like our , one of the major reason that nearly a third of the bed be block be the simple fact that there be not enough home for people on average or below average income to live in . if we do not provide home in community like our — by tackle the Airbnb crisis , the second home crisis and the lack of social rent home — we will have no workforce in care , in health or in any part of our public sector . until the Government recognise the need to support those who work , and can potentially work , in health and social care , mental and physical health , we will continue to live in a crisis , particularly in rural community like Westmorland . it be a great honour to speak today , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) on his maiden speech . today we be look at the role of our NHS , which we can all agree be one of the most important institution of our great nation and , as such , one of the most well - fund , too . with an organisation as big as this , waste be always go to be discuss . middle management and back - office staff be always target , poor private finance initiative contract always raise . then there be the million spend on dilapidated hospital , when really we should be replace they — Doncaster Royal Infirmary be a glaring example — and cut money spend on ideology with their numerous flag and handsomely pay equality and diversity officer who earn far more than the nurse . we all must agree that , as much as there be waste within the system , we be also create unnecessary cost outside the system . the NHS cost the taxpayer an enormous £ 168 billion each year . record sum be spend year on year by this Conservative Government . but what can we , as individual , do to help ? the difference between Conservative and Labour Members be that we on the Government Benches believe in personal responsibility . this can be see in a whole manner of way : eat and drink sensibly ; get plenty of exercise ; and stop smoking . then there be simple thing that we could do , like keep our gp appointment . appallingly , each day , one in five appointment — 20 % — in one practice in my constituency be not keep by patient , take away appointment that other could have , and with no consequence for those who miss they . we all know this and if we all take personal responsibility , we could save the NHS billion of pound each year . I challenge the people across this country to take charge of their health and do their part in secure the future of our NHS . another area of our health that we need to look at collectively be mental health . there be people hope that there would be something on mental health in the King ' s Speech , but I think we can do much more ourselves , without rely on the Government . there appear to be many young people who be struggle with their mental health . two question arise : why , and what can we do ? when I go into school and meet young people , or receive letter from they , many seem so confused and afraid . we seem to be encourage our child to be ashamed of this country ' s past , and raise concern and fear - monger about its future and their future too , when there be so much of which we should be proud . we seem to be encourage they to look inward to find an identity , when they already have a brilliant one . relationship , sex and health education and literature in our school deny the basic building block of life , such as that a man be a man and a woman be a woman . we teach they myth of 100 identity . we confuse their language with misuse of pronoun . we tell the boy that they be a problem to society and we compound that by tell girl that all boy be bad . we tell they that their future be doom because of climate change . we encourage their parent to work from home , which , as we know , be increase school absenteeism . then we ask , " why be so many young people struggle with mental health problem ? " there be many item in the King ' s Speech that I believe be important to my constituent : the Victims and Prisoners Bill , leasehold reform , oil and gas licensing to keep our light on , a Media Bill to regulate streaming service , the animal welfare Bill for the animal lover and , for football fan , a regulator to ensure that they be consult , among other item . since in this debate we be speak about the NHS , however , I encourage all of we to take personal responsibility for our own health and , much more than that to help the young people in our life . we must teach young people to be proud of the place where they live and the body they be bear in . we need to be role model that they can aspire to , teach they that look outward be so much well than look inward and for oneself , that be there for our fellow be well than narcissism . get off the computer and phone and be part of the community be the good thing we can do for our mental health . then , just maybe , we can save the NHS some money , or at least save the resource for those who really need they . I have two more point to make , one national and one local . the first be that we need a man ' s health strategy . some 13 man will have take their life today , 13 man will have die of prostate cancer and 88 man will have die of heart disease . it be a cry shame that we do not have a man ' s health strategy . we have a woman ' s health strategy , and it be right that we have one , but we need one for man too . locally , we have a phlebotomy clinic that be about to close . if ever there be a case of an integrate care board not listen to the people it be mean to be serve , it be this . we need to save that clinic . it take the pressure off the GPs and it be a service that the people of Doncaster need . there be much in this King ' s Speech that we can look forward to over the next 12 month , to help this country to be great again . however , unless we all start take personal responsibility , we will become a nanny state where the opposition will be teach we how to clean our tooth , which just prove that that be all they have to say . it be no exaggeration to say that we face an acute crisis in public mental health . last week , the Government have the opportunity to announce reform of the Mental Health Act and to introduce a right - base approach that would offer choice , protection and human dignity to people who be sectioned . their failure to do so be really disappointing . there be many problem with the Act in its current form , from inequality in the disproportionate use of detention , to high level of restraint , particularly experience by young people , and the removal of patient autonomy . the Act be not fit for purpose and must be change . that be why the next Labour Government will reform the legislation , put an end to the disgraceful detention of people with learn disability and autism who do not have other psychiatric disorder . we will remove prison and police cell as place of safety to ensure that people in crisis be support in an appropriate setting , and make other reform to empower mental health patient to have more control over their own care . reform the Act be a manifesto commitment for the Conservatives in both 2017 and 2019 . abandon those critical reform show a lack of political will at the heart of Government to tackle the current crisis . what we desperately need be a much great focus on prevention of mental ill health . since the cancellation of the 10 - year mental health and wellbeing plan , we have see little movement towards address the social determinant of mental ill health , which should be the business of every Government Department . public mental health be an asset , and it be vital that the Government see it as such . we need target programme and workplace and community intervention to protect , support and sustain public mental health . I be glad that Labour have commit to provide mental health hub in every community , which we will pay for by abolish tax loophole for private school and private equity fund manager . the King ' s Speech speak of " record level of investment " that be supposedly " transform " mental health service , which make I wonder who the Government be talk to . there be an estimate 1 . 2 million people on NHS waiting list in England , and the proportion of 17 to 19 - year - old with a probable mental disorder have rise from one in 10 to one in four in the past five year . for organisation I meet through my work on suicide prevention , and for the constituent who come to my door , that be simply not a picture that speak to their experience . last week I organise a conference in Newcastle on tackle young suicide , come together with local stakeholder from the NHS , charity , university and school across our region . I promise they that I would take their message back to Westminster , and one of their key message be about funding . short - term and short - notice grant and funding mean that voluntary and statutory sector organisation be force to lurch from one insecure position to the next , unable to plan for the future . it be costly and time - consume for small grassroots organisation to apply properly for those grant , and they feel that the process be too top - down to empower they to fulfil the need of local community . I have work with many excellent charity in the area of suicide prevention , and one of their key strength be their ability to be innovative . however , with NHS service struggle , they be carry large burden without proper funding or co - ordination from above . the £ 57 million allocate to local authority for suicide prevention and bereavement service in 2019 be really important , because it help to co - ordinate local suicide strategy and local action , but despite the publication of the national suicide prevention strategy , we have see no reassurance that that money will be renew or increase in line with inflation . many of the project happen at local level have already be force to end . meanwhile , the public health grant have plummet by around £ 1 billion on a real - term , per person basis since 2015 . we desperately need the restoration of local suicide prevention funding and a cross - Government , 10 - year mental health plan that create real accountability and incentive for local structure . many mental health organisation be concerned that the mental health strategy , which be due to be produce this year , be take into the major condition strategy . there be much concern about that delay . it be positive to see in the national suicide prevention strategy the beginning of a " no wrong door " approach , include training for Department for Work and Pensions staff deal with distressed caller . I do not want to belittle those effort , but there be a failure to reckon with the fact that , if people do not have enough money , life be really hard . polling last year show that the most common cause of anxiety be not be able to pay the bill . we need the Government to be assess the impact of all their decision , not just those be make about the health service . that include ensure that essential service provider and creditor have policy and procedure that underpin a compassionate response to customer experience financial strain . I have talk about the need to tackle the mental health crisis , but I also want to talk about adult social care . it be noticeable that there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about tackle that very real issue , and it be interesting that it come at a time when the National Audit Office be publish its report , out last Friday , " reform adult social care in England " . it reveal that , of the £ 1 . 75 billion commit to reform the adult social care system in December 2021 , more than £ 1 billion have be divert to other priority , mean that there have be a 58 % fall in the budget . we already know that there be significant problem , include long waiting list and high number of staff vacancy , which have increase by 173 % over the last decade . thousand of people who be medically fit to leave be stick in hospital bed because the care in the community that they need be not there to support they . it be therefore concern to read the analysis in the NAO report , which find that the DHSC have not establish an overarching programme to co - ordinate its social care reform , and that six out of eight of its workforce project be still in development . it also find that the Department do not have a long - term fund plan for transform adult social care beyond the current spending review period . once again , we be see sticking - plaster politic and the absence of long - term thinking from this Government . we have serious long - term issue in our mental health and adult social care system , and we require serious long - term solution to fix they . after 13 year of failure , the Conservatives be look to Labour for the idea to fix the mess that they have make . come the general election , the country too will be look to Labour . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate follow the first King ' s Speech in more than 70 year . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the debate be entitle , " build an NHS fit for the future " . in my view , we face no big public policy challenge . to build an NHS fit for the future and make the right financial choice , we need to get a grip on how much we spend . money alone do not provide improved outcome for patient ; the investment we make — or , in other word , our spending — need to deliver value . the NHS be not cheap , and it be certainly not free : it cost around £ 180 billion , or £ 2 , 700 per person , a year . the NHS be not underfunde , but workforce challenge , escalate cost and an increase level of non - clinical activity be put a strain on it . we need to debate how that money be spend , and I want to contribute by highlight three area . first , I will address procurement . " value - base procurement " be a term that have be use in the NHS for many year — it be not new . whether or not we use that term , it be clear that the tariff , and other system and culture , need to change to embed value into the system . what do I mean ? well , we need a transactional relationship in our NHS that go way beyond the simple purchase of a commodity or a technology . we need long - term relationship between supplier and our NHS that deliver well outcome for patient and good value for money for the taxpayer . that require a cultural change among procurement lead , yes , but for other as well . as well as that partnership approach , saving need to be make across the whole treatment pathway — from referral to discharge — rather than just on the acquisition of an individual commodity or therapy . pathway change be require , and " we have always do it this way " can no long be the answer . trust leader should be tell what be expect of they in that regard , and then they can flow that cultural change throughout the entire organisation . that should be exciting and rewarding for NHS staff , manager and team . we need mechanism and system that not only incentivise that , but insist on payment and tariff system focus on reduce expensive overnight hospital stay , prioritise day case , early diagnosis and referral , and put patient outcome at the centre of thing . secondly , I will address innovation . recently , I accompany Health and Social Care Committee colleague on a trip to Singapore , where we see how digital technology and artificial intelligence can transform effort to tackle cancer . the Committee be conduct a future cancer inquiry . there be a rather amusing moment — I find it amusing , anyway ; other might not — when I ask a couple of question about the inspiration for that approach and about the regulatory and reimbursement model for technology . it be clear to we all that the inspiration for the approach be actually the UK , especially the 100 , 000 genome Project and the Galleri test from Grail . on regulatory and reimbursement model , we be give a presentation that look almost exactly like NICE — I have sit through numerous presentation on NICE , reimbursement and all that , so one more would not make any difference . obviously , Singapore have different funding model for its healthcare system , but how it judge whether something be cost effective look remarkably similar to NICE . although some of our system , and our clinical research , be admire around the world — about which we can rightly be proud — we need to be flexible to allow those innovation to be effectively reimburse . there be still no specific tariff for digital technology , but one be vital if we be to adopt such technology at pace and scale . we must not lose the advance and potential that AI could have for patient outcome and diagnosis simply because there be no effective way of assess , reimburse and embed the technology in the NHS . the technology can and should make it easy for the NHS to save money , and we must learn how to pay for it . finally , we need to end the one - year NHS funding cycle . Muti - year financial settlement — or funding arrangement that reward outcome rather than activity — need to be embed across the whole system , include at trust and ICB level . that will save money , and we must move it forward . in - year saving incentivise only short - term cost gain . the drastic change need to embed innovation and new pathway that focus on patient outcome , and to generate saving by do thing differently , be possible only by change single - year funding model . we want those innovation to be a must - have , not a nice - to - have . time and again , innovation have dry up when the one - off funding pot have end . I could bore the House with countless example of that — hon . member will be pleased to hear that I will not , but they will be familiar with what I be say . it be the same in any big bureaucracy , be it the NHS or local government : short - term decision making , cost escalation , cultural resistance to change , and innovation treat as a nice - to - have . we can not go on like this ; we must move on from that system . we can not have a situation in which other country take inspiration from we in research and technology but do it much well , while we remain in an analogue age not because of a lack of ambition , but because our system do not embrace way to spread those thing at pace and scale . I pay tribute to our national health service and social care staff , be they in Cheshire , Merseyside or elsewhere across Britain . of course , while many in Downing Street partie , those staff go above and beyond and sacrifice so much every day — we must not forget that ; the public inquiry be certainly shine a light on it — and , importantly , they continue to do so . it be no secret that our NHS be face the bad crisis in history . urgent action be need to make our cherish healthcare system work again , but the Government provide no solution in the King ' s Speech , with 21 Bills that be heavy in rhetoric but light in substance . where be the Bill on mental health , which we have long await and the Government have promise time and again ? bizarrely , after 13 - plus year of failure , the Prime Minister be try to paint himself as a vehicle of change , while recycle a fail Prime Minister from the past , whose only notable recent success be to get himself on the payroll of Greensill Capital , which come at a real human cost of 305 job loss in the Daresbury Park area of my constituency . this be a company — sorry , a fail company ; a former company — that be now subject to an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office . we be still deal with that sorry affair , yet bizarrely , that individual be now appoint to the Government . to I and my constituent , it sound like the same old entitle Tories time and time again , with no responsibility to anybody , put arrogance above all . it be the same old Tories — the same old Etonians — and one of they be come back . the Conservatives have no answer on how to save the NHS . this government be fail million of patient and NHS staff across the country . waiting list be out of control , staff be burn out , and people be literally lose their life . too many of our constituent be wait long than ever for operation , in A & E , for ambulance , and when try to get doctor ' appointment . the system be break ; the Government break our NHS . we only need to look at their own figure : recent statistic show that the NHS backlog have hit a record high , at 7 . 8 million . that backlog be 600 , 000 large than when the current Prime Minister make his pledge — one of his five pledge — in January . we on the Labour Benches know that there be a plan . there be a sizeable pot of money available from non - dom , the very people who , bizarrely , the Prime Minister seem to want to protect . it be almost as though he have a vested interest in non - dom — I can not imagine what that might be . that money could be use to power up the frontline resource that we need to get waiting list down . why not adopt the Labour plan ? go and steal our plan . let we provide 2 million more appointment by pay staff extra to work evening and weekend , pay for by abolish the Prime Minister ' s beloved status of non - dom . just do it — steal it ! do the right thing . of course , that be not go to happen . the NHS shortfall affect a number of other area across the health landscape , especially dentistry in my constituency and throughout England . we know that 90 % of dental practice in England be close to new NHS routine patient , create dental desert . that be certainly true in the Halton and the Cheshire West and Chester part of my constituency . People who have a little bit of extra money in their pocket be force to pay for expensive payment plan in the private sector , but as have be well document across the Chamber today , many be resort to DIY treatment . it be an absolute scandal ; it be dickensian . in this day and age , everyone should have the right to receive dental treatment when they need it . that be a fundamental principle of the NHS — the NHS that we found , and that we will protect and save . just as it be very challenging to get a doctor ' s appointment , unfortunately the principle behind NHS dentistry continue to be severely undermine . I recently visit Leftwich Community Primary School , a brilliant school in my constituency with great teacher and support staff . the joint headteacher raise the desperate attempt that be make to try to get nhs dentist for pupil at the school . the teacher be go the extra mile , try to get NHS dental appointment for child in the local community . what will the Government do to make sure there be enough dentist across England , include in Cheshire and Merseyside ? why not adopt Labour ' s plan for an additional 700 , 000 dental appointment — quite a significant number , although it seem to be pooh - poohe by a Minister early in the debate — by close private equity loophole ? that be another cost plan — steal it ! do the right thing . of course , the Government will not . in my constituency , we have hospital that badly need to be upgrade and modernise . our bid for a new Halton campus hospital be snub by another Health Secretary — third time unlucky — while Leighton Hospital , which serve the Northwich part of my constituency , be successful only because it be literally fall down . it be prop up by scaffold ; it be riddle with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . that be how it get on the programme for the 40 new hospital build , which of course be a work of fiction in itself . I will be ask another Secretary of State for Health and Social Care — another one be announce today ; I have forget about that — when the people of Halton can expect to hear some good news about that desperately need hospital rebuild . I be interested to hear the hon . member mention RAAC in his speech . I have hear that there be a hospital in Harrogate that need £ 20 million of repair because of RAAC , but the Government be require that hospital to bid for the funding , rather than just give it the funding . do the hon . member think that be right ? I certainly do not . it be a critical building safety issue , and funding should be give accord to need , so that be a very well - make point . the late Tory gimmick — a dangerous one at that — be to introduce the so - call minimum service level Bill . it be an attack on the fundamental right to strike , which of course be do as a last resort . it be a piece of legislation that will sack nurse and doctor , while at the moment the NHS have vacancy for 112 , 000 health worker . the Government have fail to meet minimum standard for patient on non - strike day for the past 13 year . the only people who the majority of my constituent — and , I be quite confident , the country — want to sack be sit on the Government Benches . they want to sack each and every one of those Tory Ministers . we do not just need the reshuffling of the deckchair we have see today , or the recycling of former Prime Ministers ; we need the Government to go to the electorate , grow a spine , and let the people have their say . let we rebuild our NHS and rebuild Britain with a Labour Government . after Steven Bonnar , I will impose a formal seven - minute time limit on speech . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) . since its inception , the NHS in Scotland have stand as a testament to our way of life and our society ' s outlook and as a beacon of our compassion , all thank to the unwavere dedication and commitment of our NHS staff and social care workforce . even in the face of an unprecedented pandemic , come as quickly as it do after the damage already cause by Brexit , our NHS staff have remain steadfast , their commitment undeterred . we clap they — remember ? — and then this place let every single one of they down , time and time again . they hold the hand of our die relative while those who be set the rule our NHS staff have to endure be break those rule . in Scotland , we cherish each individual and the contribution they make to all our life , day in and day out , across the Scottish NHS and social care sector . they be work under immense pressure for myriad reason , but none be more apparent than the wilful damage inflict on Scotland by this place over the past four year alone , let alone the 13 year of Tory rule . let we stop to consider the pressure place on our NHS staff : consider the pandemic , and the attack that it unleash on our frontline service provision ; consider the third of our NHS workforce send home overnight when our freedom of movement be remove ; consider the Truss - Kwarteng psychodrama that play out before we , and the tanking of the economy hit every single household across the UK . when we consider all of that , be it not the worker of our NHS who should be honour and decorate by this place ? however , instead of crown , they wear paper hat and scrub , and they struggle on day by day . speak of crown , when we look past the pomp and the grandeur of Westminster , we find nothing in the King ' s Speech that resonate in any way with the hard - work people of Scotland . the Tory Government fail to address the core issue affect people ' s life today — the soar cost of food , mortgage cost , energy cost and interest rate , not to mention the lack of support for those on the low of income or those in the middle who be be squeeze from every conceivable angle . Scotland ' s NHS have be independent since its inception , and despite all the issue I have mention as be face by service user and staff alike , we in the SNP can say with confidence that it fare much well than its counterpart across any of the constituent part of the United Kingdom . the operational separation it enjoy have undoubtedly enable and maintain that well performance over many year . early , we hear the Opposition Health spokesperson , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , lie out the state of play in England ' s NHS — and , let we be honest , it be not pretty — but as of today Scotland ' s NHS have high staffing per head of population than the NHS in England . in Scotland we have 8 . 3 qualified nurse and midwife per 1 , 000 of our population , compare with just 6 . 3 here in England . this mean that nursing and midwifery level be 32 % high per head of population in Scotland than they be here in England . overall , nursing and midwifery staffing be up by 13 % under the SNP Scottish Government , and medical and dental consultant be up by 65 % under the SNP Scottish Government . a band 2 porter in Scotland earn more than £ 2 , 980 extra when compare with a porter in England , a band 5 nurse in Scotland be earn £ 3 , 080 more when compare with a nurse in England and a band 6 paramedic be more than £ 3 , 480 well off when compare with their counterpart in England . all of this be while avoid any strike within NHS Scotland . the one area where our NHS do not enjoy full independence be fund , and this have prove critical for a few reason . for the past three year , we on the SNP Benches have be call on the UK Government to deliver the funding necessary to not only deal with the pandemic , but make sure our NHS come back well and healthy than before . if the Government in this place be to lift up wage in NHS England to match those in Scotland , they would not only secure NHS staff in England , encourage great staff retention and possibly avoid the strike we have see so many of , but unlock billion in additional funding to make its way up the road to Scotland . however , this Government , with the reserve borrowing power of Westminster , have refuse to act . despite all our effort , a Westminster Government ultimately hold the key to deliver the funding necessary to catapult our NHS not just back on to its foot , but forward into a future the public so much deserve . the pressure in our NHS demand urgent action , so what my constituent in Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill be ask themselves be : what change will come under a Labour Government ? will employment law be devolve , and will immigration law be devolve ? what exactly be the change that the Labour party be propose , because its foreign policy be practically the same , its economic policy be largely the same , its welfare policy be largely the same and its constitutional policy be largely the same ? both the Tories and Labour offer Scotland the status quo . they both offer a life under a Westminster Government who do not care for it , will never put it first and will never put it before the interest of little Britain . only the SNP be offer the people of Scotland any real change and any real hope , and it will only come with independence . only then can the great reset begin . as thing stand , we in the SNP come to this place daily to stand up for Scotland and to address the challenge in our healthcare system , our economy and our interaction with the world through UK foreign policy . in my opinion , it be become more difficult to come here , and to sit and listen to the rhetoric of this place and of this government . listen to some of it have be hard to stomach , so let I be very clear : both the Government and the Opposition , in refuse to call for an end to innocent life be lose and the collective punishment of Palestinians via a humanitarian ceasefire on all side , be once again out of lockstep with the people of Scotland . the SNP amendment to the Loyal Address , to which I have put my name , call for an immediate ceasefire to take place . I very much look forward to vote for that in the name of peace and humanity , and I hope many hon . and right hon . friend will join I in the Lobby . Scotland ' s reputation among our partner in the international community be be damage and we be be drag down by our attachment to this place . the harm that have be cause to our economy , our public service , our population and our reputation be unparalleled . be it not a little bit ironic that the man who cause so much of it , with his Brexit vote and his fail Remain campaign , be back ? former Prime Minister Cameron be now in the Government as Foreign Secretary — unelecte , of course , but simply hand an ermine robe and tell , " you ' re a Lord now , Dave . get on wi ' it ! " he be allow himself to be use as some kind of stooge to distract from a weak Prime Minister , who have no option but to sack his dog - whistle Home Secretary . the Leader of the opposition be no stranger himself to anti - immigration rhetoric , specifically target the nhs and recruitment from overseas . this be at a time when the recruitment and retention of senior medical staff be one of the big challenge we be face , with over 40 % of GP trainee be international graduate . the challenge feel in the health and social care sector resonate across other sector too — agriculture , fishing , food production and distribution have all be victim of Brexit — and the last thing Scotland need be any more right - wing rhetoric on immigration from this place . the good future for the NHS be an independent future in Scotland . an independent Scotland , free from the constraint of this place , can chart its own course , ensure the wellbeing of its citizen without be tethered to the whim of political agenda think up by right - wing ideologue who do not prioritise our nation , its health or our people . the people of Scotland deserve so much well , and we in the SNP will work to deliver a healthcare system that put people first , value our healthcare professional and recognise the true worth of our national health service — and to achieve this , our fight continue . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s King ' s Speech debate on get the NHS back on its foot . it be clear that the country be cry out for change . we do not mean bring back one of the architect of austerity , who start 13 year of failure on his watch , to try to help a conservative party that be out of idea and have give up on govern . we be see stagnant growth , skyrocket mortgage , crumble school and hospital , and a cost of living crisis , yet the Government ' s agenda include no meaningful action to deal with the past 13 year of failure . only Labour be offer true change — a decade of national renewal to overcome the conservative party ' s national decline — with unshakeable commitment to drive economic growth , safe street , cheap home - grow british power , well opportunity for all and a rejuvenated nhs . what work people deserve be a good job , a secure home and a safe community . the cornerstone of a good life be our and our family ' s health , and at the heart of that be our NHS . this example of socialism in action be the jewel of the british crown , and a proud creation of the post - war Attlee Labour Government . however , that creation have be push to breaking point by the Conservatives as the health service be short of 125 , 000 staff ; patient be wait long than ever for operation , in A & E or for an ambulance ; and NHS staff be force to use outdated , creak equipment , which mean long wait for patient . the answer be not to sack healthcare worker by introduce minimum level of service on strike day . it be clear that only Labour can rescue the NHS from the big crisis in its history , get it back on its foot and make it fit for the future . we can see that already , with the welcome announcement that the Conservatives be finally adopt our plan to train the doctor and nurse the NHS need . the Secretary of State could have include a few more of our idea in the King ' s Speech , begin with our plan to provide 2 million more appointment , to be fund by abolish the non - dom tax status . we would also arm NHS staff with the late cutting - edge technology and equipment and support more care in the community so that patient be not stick in hospital . a Labour Government will ensure that the NHS be there when people need it , from cradle to grave in a fairer Britain , allow everyone to live well for long . the King ' s Speech sadly confirm that the Conservatives have shelve the much - need reform of the Mental Health Act , break their 2019 and 2017 manifesto pledge . rightly , the absence of Mental Health Act reform have be heavily criticise by social work and health leader and by mental health campaigner . we need a prevention - base approach whereby people can access mental health support in the community when they first need it , rather than have to wait until they reach crisis point . that be why a Labour Government would recruit 8 , 500 more staff to expand access to talk therapy and cut waiting time . we would provide mental health support in every school and an open - access mental health hub for child and young people in every community . we would fund that by close interest - tax loophole and charge vat on private school . accessible and timely mental healthcare be vital to the creation of a healthy society . let I take this opportunity to give credit to Luton Borough Council ' s 2040 vision : a plan to create a healthy local community in our town , to improve population wellbee , and to enable everyone to have a good quality of life and reach their full potential , as part of a commitment to become a Marmot town by tackle health inequality with action on the social factor that impact health . that mean embed health across all policy area . the covid - 19 pandemic far highlight and exacerbate many health challenge , and widen inequality that affect health , such as education , housing and employment . the Government ' s 13 year of failure have have a substantial impact on work people ' s life in Luton . under this Conservative Government , people be struggle to afford to meet their most basic physical need — to stay warm , dry , clean and fed . how can the UK have a healthy society when the Conservatives be fail to ensure that people have the basic ? People deserve the security and opportunity to get on in life , and a good job be an important part of a healthy life . the Government need to recognise that they be fail to break down the barrier that prevent people from re - join the workforce . one in seven people in England be wait for NHS treatment ; unaffordable childcare cost be lock parent out of full - time work ; the number of young people out of work due to ill health have nearly double in a decade ; and only one in 10 old or disabled people have have any support to find work . labour will tackle the root cause of economic inactivity by drive down nhs waiting list , reform social security , make work pay and support people into good job across every part of the country . a secure home be essential to a healthy life , but the King ' s Speech do nothing to tackle the housing emergency in Luton and across the UK . there be no sign of local housing target or the reform need to our planning system . homeowner face eye - water mortgage rate , young people be struggle to get on the housing ladder , and the dream of home ownership have be snatch away for so many who be stick pay unaffordable private rent . labour ' s plan for secure home , include council housing , will put an end to the Conservatives ' housing emergency . this be the Prime Minister ' s first King ' s Speech and , much like his predecessor , he have nothing to offer the country other than division and more of the same . labour have a plan to rebuild Britain and our public service . we respect and understand the effort that million of people put in every day . they deserve well from politic and government , and they will get it from the next Labour Government ' s King ' s Speech . the lack of a comprehensive Government programme be bear out by our experience over the previous Session , in which business finish before the end of the sit day on 100 occasion , or 47 % of the time . that amount to 134 hour of parliamentary time leave unused . even now in the debate on the Humble Address , the Government have run out of speaker on their side of the Chamber yet again . that have happen every day so far . they also seem to be run out of people on the Government Benches to put in their own Cabinet . it be hard to escape the feeling that this be a Government who have run out of steam . indeed , what kind of shamble of a Government decide to conduct a full reshuffle in the middle of the debate on the King ' s Speech ? presumably , Departments have be work for some time on plan for the legislative programme . to change the political leadership in those Departments just six day after that programme be announce smack of a rudderless ship lurch from one crisis to the next . it be like a football team sack its manager on the morning of the FA cup final . we really can do well than this . nothing sum up the failure more than the fact that the big omission from the Humble Address be the lack of anything to deal with the cost of living . inflation may be come down but it be still far too high and the long tail of its impact will be feel for possibly year to come through high mortgage payment and rental cost . food inflation have be run at 15 % for much of the year , and every item of household expenditure have go up this year . maybe we will see something in the autumn statement next week — whoever be in charge of the Treasury at that point . we need to see something . the Trussell Trust have give out some 1 . 5 million food parcel in the past six month . I can just about remember a time when food bank be the exception ; now they appear to be the norm . far too many family have to rely on some form of support on a permanent basis and the growth of food bank continue unabated . although I commend and thank the volunteer for all their help , when be we go to get down to tackle the serious issue of why food bank exist in the first place ? in the past week or so , I have be visit school in my constituency as part of Parliament Week . one thing that I discuss with the child be what issue they want to see we deal with in here , and one of the issue they raise be the cost of living . it be normally litt , animal or play area that come up , but not this time . with wage go only as far as they do 16 year ago , and at a time when inflation have be so consistently high , it be no wonder that everything have become unsustainable . the Office for Budget Responsibility find that wage be not set to recover to the same real level until 2026 , and estimate that the average worker in 2022 would have be £ 233 a week well off have wage continue to grow at pre - 2008 level . those statistic bear out what the child have be tell I . it be about time that the Government act and listen . the NHS ' s found principle that everyone be entitle to care , free at the point of use and on the basis of need , be one of our proud achievement . it provide assurance that everyone can access some of the good healthcare in the world , but that principle be now at risk . look what we be witness at the moment : a record high waiting list of 7 . 7 million ; 391 , 000 patient wait more than a year for treatment ; and cancer target be consistently miss . the number of patient wait for more than 12 hour from a decision to admission stand at more than 44 , 000 last month ; that be 64 time high than it be in October 2019 , which be an incredible deterioration in just four year . but it be even bad compare with when Labour be last in office , when the number of people wait for more than 12 hour be non - existent . it be clear to everyone that the NHS be in the midst of the big crisis in its history , but unfortunately the issue be completely bypass in the King ' s Speech . what be bad , my local NHS be be ask to find 5 % cut from its service . Goodness know where it will find that from — and we have not even talk about the crisis in social care — yet we hear about trust have to ask volunteer for redundancy . why be that happen when we have more than 100 , 000 vacancy in the NHS ? the Government ' s record on home be no well . the amount of people we see in our constituency office who have nowhere to call home be grow to an unprecedented number . the lack of progress on build new home , especially genuinely affordable housing , along with the crippling rise in interest rate , the failure to tackle the private housing sector and the continue giveaway of right to buy , all combine to leave we with the bad housing crisis in memory and an inevitable increase in rough sleeping . in the first six month of 2023 , my local council have 6 , 000 housing application , compare with 7 , 000 for the whole of the previous year . part of this be down to section 21 notice , which still have not be end , but it be also about the affordability of private rent , with the local housing allowance rate be frozen year after year . it be a shame that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have just leave the Chamber because I really want he to hear about that . it seem that someone in the Government have notice an increase in rough sleeping , because before the King ' s Speech a proposal be trail to end the plight of homelessness . instead , though , it would have criminalise those who want to help people with tent and other form of shelter . thankfully those measure do not appear in the final speech , but those comment have have an impact . I be hear story of people have their tent steal , and it remind we that comment from people in important position have an impact . we have all see the consequence of that over this past weekend . on a positive note , the leasehold and freehold Bill be a good start , but it do not go far enough . in particular , the suggestion that the new rule will not apply to flat be a disappointment . on the proposal to cap ground rent at peppercorn , I have the opportunity last week to ask the former Housing Minister , the hon . member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , whether she agree that ground rent have no place in a modern world . while she do agree , it worry I that there will be a consultation on ground rent before any legislation be introduce , and that will give the freehold industry another opportunity to keep its lucrative income stream go . I have already see comment from those protect vested interest , or their lawyer , say that cap ground rent at peppercorn can not possibly happen as it be a fairly agree contract , and surely the leaseholder know what they be sign up to . well , we have spend many hour in this place debunk that theory , and I be sure that the Competition and Markets Authority would also have something to say about that . of course , we have another new Housing Minister , so we will see whether we do see that reform . in conclusion , this be a pathetic offering from a Prime Minister insist that he be the voice of change , even though he be now bring in the cheerleader of austerity from the previous decade . it be one last desperate roll of the dice from a Government who have run out of idea and just about run out of road . every aspect of life have get bad during these past 13 year . with this government , it feel like decline be inevitable . it do not have to be this way , which be why we should have a general election straightaway . thirteen year of Tory rule have deliver a broken country , where the majority of people know that time be hard now than they be before . whether it be access a gp , try to get on the housing ladder or meet the ever - rise cost of food , childcare , energy and public service , people be work hard and pay more taxis for less in return . our morale be be test to the limit . the climate change emergency have be downgrade , the Government be go backwards on their commitment . our river have be turn into open sewer . school be struggle to cover their cost . public building be collapse . food bank use continue to soar , and more and more child be fall into poverty . all this zombie Government could offer in their last stand before the general election be this pathetic agenda . instead of genuine attempt to fix the problem they have create , the Government have opt for more division and yet more authoritarian anti - strike measure ; they do not believe that public service worker have a right to stand up for fair pay , condition and well service for the patient they care about . I will focus my king ' s Speech response on health and social care , because more than 7 million people be wait , on record waiting list . I be so disappointed on behalf of my constituent that the King ' s Speech offer little hope to get the NHS back on its foot — in other word , to how it be the last time Labour be in power . many of my constituent be wait for care , and the struggle to get a GP appointment be the norm . access to dental care be not possible for many , and some of my constituent be struggle to access vital medication because of ongoing drug shortage , particularly epilepsy drug , HRT and ADHD medication . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to address those problem , and mental health reform have again be kick into the long grass . part of the Mental Health Act be 40 year old , and we now know so much more about mental health condition and how to treat they , so why be the Government fail patient and child , and continue to ignore the mental health emergency ? my constituent have be wait nearly seven year for the in - patient mental health bed they lose to be return . this Government enable blatant profiteering during the national health emergency , and the covid inquiry have confirm what we already suspect : that the Government response to covid be slow , chaotic and deadly . they go from clap the NHS to call for their sack for have the temerity to demand a wage they could live on . the Government say they want minimum service level on strike day , but what be the conservative plan to provide a minimum level of service on non - strike day ? the Government have finally relent to labour ' s call to publish a long - term workforce plan for the NHS to ensure that the service can meet demand . the Health Foundation forecast that waiting list will go up to 8 million by next year — not down , as the Prime Minister promise — and these proposal have come far too late . the health service be now short of 125 , 000 staff , and the announcement will take year to have an impact . there be no plan on retention measure , but I offer the Government one piece of advice : stop blame hard - work , burn - out NHS staff for the Government ' s decade of neglect of our NHS . there be still no long - term social care workforce plan to overcome the severe staff shortage in the care sector . we can not fix health unless we fix social care . it will be leave to the next Labour Government to rescue the NHS from the big crisis in its history , to get it back on its foot and to make it fit for the future . it be an honour to speak in this historic debate on the first king ' s Speech for 72 year , but , to be frank , it be not a pleasure . when I go around and talk to people in Putney , Southfields , Roehampton and Wandsworth town about what I can say for they on their behalf in Parliament , many just shrug their shoulder and say , " where do you start ? " , because there be so many thing they feel that the Government should be do that they be not do , whether that be : the climate crisis ; the cost of living crisis ; a million child live in destitution in the UK ; the damage to our international reputation ; or the NHS crisis , with 125 , 000 vacancy in our NHS and nearly 8 million people on waiting list . those be all thing that my constituent think should be tackle by the Government , and I just have not see that in the King ' s Speech . it be disappointing . before turn to the press issue of healthcare , I put on record my disappointment at the lack of legislation to move we towards a net zero green future in the King ' s Speech . there could have be so much more in that legislative programme . it be be leave to Labour to pick up the piece , but we will do so in all our action for Government . there be also welcome reform for leaseholder , but the legislation be too weak and be mainly not for current leaseholder , but for future and new - build leaseholder . I be pleased to see that the Government have reintroduce the Renters ( Reform ) Bill in the King ' s Speech , but the long delay have cause suffering across the country and across London . will the section 21 eviction ban actually see the light of day , as we need it to ? I will focus on three serious issue of concern on healthcare for my constituent : the dropping of any reform to the Mental Health Act ; dental health ; and , support for GP surgery and primary healthcare . last week , the Government break yet another promise to reform the Mental Health Act — a promise they have be make for six year . there have long be cross - party support for reform the Act . a Committee meet from summer last year to January , and a report be make , but it have not receive any Government response . legislation be there , wait to be put into place . the Mental Health Act 1983 be outdated and unfit for purpose , yet it remain the main piece of legislation outline the right of people who be be detain in hospital for mental health treatment . there be huge problem with it . black people be five time more likely to be detain under the Act and more than 11 time more likely to be give a community treatment order than white people . the Government be let down people with autism and learn disability . in September alone , more than 2 , 000 autistic people and people with learning disability be detain in mental health hospital in England , include 205 child — often in solitary confinement . the Care Quality Commission have say that these people " continue to be in hospital inappropriately when they should be receive care in the community . " there be concrete plan to tackle that in the draft Mental Health Bill , but that have be drop . what be the Minister ' s plan to take action on this issue go forward ? the reform be a crucial chance to give people more dignity and independence , yet the Act continue to fail child and young people in particular . it take away agency from those detain to have any say over their treatment . mental health be not the only area in which the Government be fail our NHS : my constituent be unable to get gp appointment . the most recent GP appointment survey datum find that the proportion of people who secure an appointment when want have fall to just 51 % : the low level in five year . too often , our GP surgery — the premise — be unsuitable , with a report from the Royal College of General Practitioners find that 40 % of GP staff consider their premise unsuitable . I be tell in a recent letter from a gp in Putney how far too many surgery be " stick in tiny residential building " , which really affect gps ' ability to provide the service — prevention service in particular — that they want to provide . will the Minister tell the House what be be do to improve the GP estate — gp surgery in particular — and to expand it in future ? labour would reverse the decline in GPs by double the number of medical school place to 15 , 000 a year , rapidly improve gp appointment performance and provide a public service that have time for people with more complex need . labour ' s NHS workforce plan will train a new generation of doctor and nurse . also miss from the King ' s Speech be any mention of dentistry . at my most recent visit to a local gp surgery , I say , " what be the main issue that you face ? " I expect all sort of issue that we might think would be big , but they say that it be NHS dentistry for child . they be see the impact of that — people can not get an NHS dentist appointment , so they come to their gp — and that problem be grow , especially for child . it be increase the health inequality in my constituency , which I see from one part of the constituency to another in dentistry more than anything else . during covid , I take part in many debate in which we lay out how the NHS dentistry contract be go to fail local people and how it be not fit for purpose , yet it be not change then and the problem have be exacerbate since . labour will address the immediate crisis in NHS dentistry by provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment and recruit more dentist . in the long term , it will reform the NHS dentistry contract as well so that everyone who need an NHS dentist can get one . alongside reform of the Mental Health Act , Labour will transform mental health service in Britain so that timely support be available to those who need it . we will recruit thousand more mental health professional , provide mental health hub in every community and put mental health support — that crucial early prevention work — into every school . the Government must now make way for a party with a vision for a revitalise nhs that work for everyone or risk run our healthcare service far into the ground . it be time for a general election now . I know that we say " the Government of the day " , but this Government seem to be take that term to new height . the NHS be top of what I hear about on the doorstep . People talk about how long it will take to see a gp , whether their child will get support with complex and little - understand condition such as paediatric acute - onset neuropsychiatric syndrome and paediatric auto - immune neuropsychiatric disorder associate with streptococcal infection , whether specialist be available for support when thing go wrong , and how they access mental health need . I understand that day - to - day decision by NHS Scotland be not make here , as NHS Scotland ' s run be within the devolved competence of the Scottish Parliament , but , from listen to the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) , we would think that everything be great in Scotland . it be right that our spending on the NHS be high per capita , but that have nothing to do with the generosity of the Scottish Government . we get more money per head to reflect the high cost of deliver service over large rural area in Scotland — it be simply more expensive to deliver our service . when I look at the GP service in North East Fife , I see they crumble under the SNP . do the hon . member recognise that the lack of capital spending by the British Government in NHS England and its Barnett consequential mean that the Scottish Government get less money to spend on NHS Scotland , so we be suffer as a result of be tie to this Union ? part of that come from the fiscal framework that the Scottish Government have sign up to . the Barnett consequential have always recognise that service in Scotland be more difficult to deliver because of our geographical size . in North East Fife our NHS board ' s finance be stretch beyond the limit , as I raise early . also , we no long have any specialist A & E support , because no one in Scotland do . health service include care service . my priority for North East Fife be for anyone who need support to live independently to get it . no one should be leave take up a hospital bed or be on a waiting list because of a lack of carer . a lack of carer have not be address by either Government , which be why it be my party ' s policy to introduce an elevated statutory minimum wage for social care worker , which will instantly help recruitment and place value in that vital profession . I regret that , once again , the UK Government have fail to support the estimate 10 . 6 million unpaid carer across the UK . whether they be help with washing or arrange appointment , our unpaid carer sacrifice their time and , too often , their own health and wellbee as they care for their love one and other . carer UK research have find that almost a third of all unpaid carer — 3 . 6 million — be struggle to make end meet , while 75 % of those receive carer ' s allowance be struggle to cope with the cost of living crisis . they be worry about money , how they will care for their love one , how to stay in work , and whether their work will result in lose their carer ' s allowance . there be so much worry , it be no surprise that Carers UK have find that almost four fifth of carer feel stressed or anxious , and 65 % agree that the cost of living be have a negative impact on their mental or physical health . we can and must do more to help . I be proud this year to see the passing of the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . once it be fully enact , carer will have , for the first time , the right to take leave from work for their caring responsibility . however , we be not quite over the line yet , so I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm whether the Government programme will include time for the regulation under the Carer ' s Leave Act , and set out when we can expect those to be lay . go forward , I want that leave to be pay . carer ' s allowance must be reform to enable people to enter and stay in work , and to lift those who can not away from poverty . at the moment , carer ' s allowance be a disincentive to enter work . give that it be suppose to be a priority for the Government to get people back into work , I hope that there might be some change in the autumn statement next week . North East Fife be a wonderful place , often rank highly for its hospitality and stunning scenery . of course , it be the home of golf . I could not miss an opportunity to applaud St Andrews university , currently rank the good university in the UK . it be no wonder that we be a top destination internationally . you would be welcome to visit any time , Mr Deputy Speaker . however , I must highlight the damage that have be do by the UK Government ' s policy . the success of St Andrews university be down not just to student experience and outcome but to its incredible research . however , the continual delay in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s processing of academic technology approval scheme application disincentivise the bright mind from come to our shore . the delay in gain associate membership of Horizon have lead to funding loss and frequent complaint that UK researcher be leave out multinational proposal . meanwhile , there have be cut to official development assistance budget , which help to fund vital research on how to tackle the great issue face the world . I be look forward to hear from the new Foreign Secretary on that very issue , give his previous opposition to the cut in ODA funding . think about your visit , Mr Deputy Speaker , it would be a sad trip if the hostelry in North East Fife be shut or you have nowhere to stay due to persistent post - Brexit labour shortage . I would want to show you our brilliant distillery — Lindores Abbey , Kingsbarns , Eden Mill and Daftmill — but , again , the Government seem to be intent on make it hard for such business . their refusal this spring to include distillery as high intensity energy user for support with their bill , while simultaneously hike tax by 10 . 1 % , be a betrayal of the Scotch whisky industry . that mean that a responsible drinker of whisky will pay an extra £ 200 of tax per year compare with other such as cider drinker . I urge the Government to stop their unfair treatment and the Chancellor to freeze duty on spirit in his statement next week . the Government say that they would do that , so it will be great if some of those long - term decision for a bright future be commit and keep to . I wonder if the Chancellor will pick up the slack from the total failure to mention vital local service such as banking hub and post office in the King ' s Speech . we have have seven post office closure in North East Fife alone . post office use be the heart of a community , where people could do basic banking , buy their stamp and apply for passport . those need have not go away , particularly in rural constituency , and neither have the need for physical banking . in Cupar , in the centre of my constituency , the last physical bank standing be nationwide . it be great to still have a building society presence , but what about all those other customer in other bank and in the village outside Cupar , too ? I very much hope we will see from the Financial Conduct Authority a proper way to assess how a community will benefit from a bank hub that go simply beyond the last bank in town be lose . Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like briefly to take you back to the joy of a visit to North East Fife . the East Neuk coast be stunning and an inspire sight for tourist and local alike , and , in summer , a favourite for swimming . that lead I to the failure to regulate water company and the challenge in Scotland of the ongoing discharge of sewage into our sea . this be as much of an issue in Scotland as it be in other part of the UK . monitor over the summer find that low Largo ' s beach be at least 50 time above the recommend contamination limit at least three time , its filthiness a stain on any claim by decision maker to protect our environment . the challenge — this come from a liberal Democrat investigation early this year — be that only 4 % of 3 , 500 outflow in Scotland be currently monitor , and the 1 , 000 additional monitor they want to put in will not be available until the end of 2024 at the early . that be also true in other place , such as Eastbourne , where Southern Water have lot to answer for . to conclude on the point make by the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , yes a reshuffle slow thing down . how much of the King ' s Speech will we actually get through before a general election ? the most Gracious Speech sum up the agenda , or lack thereof , of a tired government : one who have run out of steam after inflict considerable damage to our country over 13 long year and be intent on whip up hate , manufacture culture war and sow division , instead of a Government concern with the bread and butter issue that matter to work people the length and breadth of Britain . the Gracious Speech could have — should have — include significant measure to improve our public service and rescue our public sector from the state of permanent decline that those on the Government Benches have put it in . the NHS be on life support and so , too , be the Tory Government . waiting list be now approach 8 million and NHS staff be force to use outdated , creak equipment , make their job hard . meanwhile , those on the Tory Benches preoccupy themselves with minimum service level and trade union bash , rather than tackle the root cause of the recruitment and retention crisis grip our health service . those on the Tory Benches say that they want minimum service level on strike day , but what be the conservative plan to provide minimum level of service on non - strike day ? as the Prime Minister bring back one of his predecessor to the heart of Government , let we not forget that it be the 13 year of public sector pay policy first initiate by the new unelected Foreign Secretary as Prime Minister that have lead we to this point . only yesterday , the General Medical Council warn the Government that a record number of doctor plan to leave the profession due to burn - out and dissatisfaction . it state that the long - term workforce plan have come too late . indeed , many would say it represent too little , such be the scale of the problem that be now endemic in the NHS . there be never a well time in recent history for the Gracious Speech to include the Government ' s long - promise mental health Bill . instead , the reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 have be shelve by the Government . the charity mind be right when it proclaim that the Government have fail to prioritise mental health as well as break their promise to thousand of people . despite the Government promise to deliver 6 , 000 extra NHS gp appointment , patient be find it impossible to see a gp because there be simply not enough GPs to meet the demand for care . some of my constituent be be force to perform DIY dentistry , because they be face two - year wait for check - up and some can not even access an NHS dentist . if we look at adult social care , we see that thousand of people be stick in hospital bed who be medically fit to leave but unable to do so because the care they need in the community simply be not there . I be sure that all member remember only too well the former Prime Minister — for the avoidance of doubt , let I remind they that this be three Prime Ministers ago — tell we that he would fix the broken social care system within the first 100 day of office . nowadays , many Ministers do not even reach the heady height of 100 day in office — just ask the lettuce . once again , the Gracious Speech contain nothing for renter , NHS staff or work people . the Government be again reaffirm their intent to turn their back on the most vulnerable in our society . the scar leave by the pandemic , the volatility of the labour market and the cost of live crisis weigh heavily on million upon million of people in this country — on worker in the public and private sector , and on those who can not work . the Government ' s programme of austerity hit the very poor in their first five year . Electorally , the Government be shield from their own policy because — as he have now admit — the then Chancellor , now the Prime Minister , change the funding formula to take money from deprived urban area and give it to other part of the country such as the leafy shire . however , now the chicken be come home to roost , and it appear that no one be safe from the Government ' s economic dogma , aside from their mate in the 1 % — not homeowner , and not those on wage large than the national average . indeed , many be carry the significant economic burden of our time , for themselves and their family . when we have the high tax burden since the second world war and the large squeeze on wage in 200 year , the word " economy " feature just once in the King ' s Speech . if anyone be in any doubt about the lack of a long - term plan from this Government , they should be in no doubt now . the Government do not have one . they be out of idea , out of Ministers , and out of time . last week ' s King ' s Speech be one of the last big moment that the Government have to turn the tide and come to the aid of our citizen in their time of need . instead , they have signal their intent to fill the vacuum leave by a threadbare agenda with politicking , and with division rather than govern . the good thing they can do now for the british people be call a general election , and give Britain its future back . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . let I begin by pay tribute to his Majesty the King on the occasion of his first Gracious Speech as our sovereign . let I also take this opportunity to put on record how proud and glad I be to spend yesterday with my local community in Greenford , lay a wreath at the Greenford war memorial , come together at the Royal British Legion club , and celebrate Diwali at Shree Jalaram Mandir . I turn now to what be in and , just as importantly , what be lack from the King ' s Speech . it be astonishing that the Government announce new legislation on energy and yet their Energy Secretary be immediately force to admit that the new law would not take a penny off people ' s bill . it be deeply frustrating , although sadly unsurprising , that the Government have announce legislation on housing that walk away yet again from unfulfilled promise that they have make time and again to leaseholder and private renter . it be a sign of how tired this Government be that there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about a plan for economic growth to make people across the country well off , or the planning reform that we need to get Britain build . in short , this King ' s Speech show that the Conservatives be incapable of deliver the change that even the Prime Minister concede our country need . People and business in my constituency , like other across Britain , have be pay the price of the Government ' s failure on energy for the past 13 year . the Government ' s failure mean that the energy crisis hit people in Britain hard than those in any other western european country . People be right to ask what on earth the Government be do over the past 13 year to allow we to get into this mess . at the very least , people might have expect the energy crisis to serve as a wake - up call for Ministers , but the Government ' s flagship energy policy in the King ' s Speech show no sign of their wake up . in fact , it show just how tired and out of touch minister be that they appear to have simply give up try to bring down energy bill for british family , and be happy to admit that . that be why labour ' s plan be so important to make Britain energy independent , to invest in british industry and to cut bill for family . energy bill be far from the only pressure on household budget . as the cost of living crisis continue to hit family across the country , the housing crisis that have also be grow under the Conservatives be get bad and bad . homeowner with mortgage be be hit by the Tory mortgage penalty . private renter face relentlessly rise rent as they struggle to get on the housing ladder and live in perpetual insecurity . family in social housing that do not meet their need often have no choice other than to wait for year on end . and yet the King ' s Speech offer nothing to truly get a grip on the housing crisis . the only legislation that it include on housing represent yet more walk away from some of the promise the Government have repeatedly make and delay . we know that the Government have be drag their foot for year over reform the private rent sector . we finally have the Renters ( Reform ) Bill before we , but I will believe that it will become an Act under this government only when I see it gain Royal Assent . despite the Bill have come forward , we have already learn that the implementation of much - need change be to be delay even long . the Government be kick the ban on no - fault eviction into the long grass yet again , despite ten of thousand of household be evict and threaten with homelessness as Ministers dither . meanwhile , the legislation that the Government have announce for leaseholder would apply only to new home , and there be nothing to roll out commonhold for new flat . their plan fall woefully short of the fundamental and comprehensive reform that Britain ' s feudal leasehold system need . we know that that change will only come from Labour , as we have commit to enact the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , commonhold and the right to manage in full . more widely , there be no sign in the King ' s Speech of any wide ambitious plan to do what be necessary to reform the planning system or to begin to fix the housing crisis . just as there be no plan to fix the housing crisis , there be no plan for economic growth . the economy be just not work under the Conservatives . figure publish on Friday confirm that the UK economy fail to grow at all between July and September , yet there be no change from the Government in the King ' s Speech last week . there be no attempt to draw a line under the economic failure and decline of the last 13 year and set out a serious plan for growth . we know that economic failure and stagnant growth have a direct impact on people ' s life , leave work people bad off . we know that , face with low growth , the Government have increase taxis 25 time in this Parliament alone , leave british people and business pay the price . as if that be not enough , we know that work people be still pay the price of the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget last year . that be why Labour have a plan to replace 13 year of national decline with a decade of national renewal . our plan have economic responsibility as its foundation , and under our plan , the Government will work with business to grow the economy and make work people in all part of the country well off . as Members of Parliament , we be here to serve , and make life well for people across Britain be what Labour ' s plan — our alternative to the King ' s Speech — would set out to achieve . I intend this evening to talk about rural and coastal healthcare , community hospital , social care and nhs dentist . right across the country , our NHS be creak . in rural area such as the one that I represent in Devon , many people be find it almost impossible to get timely care . despite that , there be almost no announcement in the King ' s Speech of new legislation to support the NHS in rural area . I really be wonder , give that I represent a corner of Devon , what be in this king ' s Speech to provide for healthcare in the countryside . we often hear about acute challenge in urban area , especially when it come to vital service that we perhaps do not need to travel very far for , but coastal and rural area tend to be place where old people retire to and so have a high population of old people . last week Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , say that the elderly boom will be in rural , largely coastal area . he say : " we ' ve really get to get serious about the area of the country where ageing be happen very fast , and we ' ve get to do it now . . . otherwise we will end up with large number of people lead much more dependent life " — that is , life that be more dependent on the state and on taxpayer . we really need to get a grip of this . Sir Chris write : " improve quality of life in old age sometimes mean less medicine " . it might be that old people want to go to hospital , but not to intensive care . it might be that they want to have treatment , but not an operation . it seem to I that Sir Chris Whitty be encourage we to listen to what old people want . I hold a listening exercise over the summer in which I visit 34 village and town hall , and I be certain that , more than anything else , people in my part of Devon want good community hospital and good care close to their home . I hear that they do not want to have to travel 30 mile to the near acute hospital in Exeter , on a bus that can take up to 90 minute , to see a love one or to have an operation . go to hospital be a huge burden for people live in rural area like mine , where public transport be poor and decline in quality , mean that people spend a whole day travel to and from hospital , which be a huge undertaking for old people . that be why community hospital be vital . they offer basis for treatment , help to support people in their own community . sadly , we have be lose these centre in recent year . in my corner of Devon , we have see the hospital in Seaton , Honiton and Ottery St Mary suffer swingeing cut . the cut to the number of bed , make in 2017 , be fight vocally by local people , and they be have last consequence . my Adjournment debate will focus on Seaton Community Hospital but , in the meantime , I will talk about two other rural health challenge : social care and dentistry . the cost of provide care at home be high in rural area , both to those who pay for it and to those deliver it , because they be have to drive between appointment . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for a carer ' minimum wage , with an additional £ 2 an hour boost to the minimum wage pay to carer . the situation for dentistry in Devon be even bad . local NHS dentist be so up against it that not a single dentist in all of Devon be take on new NHS patient . Healthwatch England report on seven of the NHS ' s 42 subregion that be not take new dental patient : " of all of these area perhaps the worst affected be Devon , as there be currently no practice show as take on adult or child patient . " this mean that people be have to live in agony ; have to travel huge distance to far - fling destination — I hear one constituent say that it be recommend that they travel to Gloucester for an NHS dentist ; have to pay huge sum of money that they do not have to go private ; or have to perform terrible , dangerous DIY dentistry to remove their own tooth . the Government would prefer to be silent about this issue . we have a tick time bomb of retirement loom , and the Conservative Government have reject liberal Democrat call to reform the NHS dental contract or to set out a clear plan to recruit and train the thousand of dentist that we need . those challenge be specific to rural community , but today I be also talk about challenge that be specific to coastal community . the final subject I want to cover be therefore sewage dumping , which can be damaging to health . I know people who have become sick after swim off the east Devon coast . People should not have to risk sickness on Devon ' s beautiful beach . there be a raw sewage spill at Sidmouth on 10 September 2022 , despite the water quality report by Surfers Against Sewage find that there have be no rain over the previous 48 hour . what do South West Water , the water company responsible , have to say ? it say the spill be a " false alert " due to wildlife brushing over the sensor on the combine sewage overflow monitor . what kind of Government would set up a regulator that be prepared to accept that as an explanation ? liberal Democrats want to see water company overhaul and reform into public benefit company . we need to put the health and wellbeing of local people ahead of corporate greed and shareholder profit . that will stop people get sick and ensure that our favourite beach remain attractive place for tourist . I wish to close by read out the word of David Cameron . when he retire , he talk about how he do not think he be the right person " to try to be the captain that steer the country to its next destination . " that can apply to the whole of this Conservative Government . last week , we hear the long king ' s Speech in year , but it have very little in it . however , there be a silver lining : the announcement that the Government will bring forward legislation to create a smokefree generation . the devil will be in the detail , of course , and this certainly do not let Ministers , past and present , off the hook on the NHS . we see that if we just look at the state of NHS dentistry , an issue I have raise , and will continue to raise , in this place . numerous Labour and other Opposition Members have also raise it in today ' s debate . I want to focus on smoking because it may be the single large driver of health inequality in England . Professor Chris Whitty argue in his late report that central and local government have a key role to play in reduce smoking . it be an issue that the overwhelming majority of medical professional agree on , as , I hope , do the majority of MPs . I have long take an interest in the issue ; as a councillor , I hold the portfolio for health and wellbee for nearly a decade , and this include chair our tobacco control alliance . work together with community and local authority to tackle tobacco harm , I see at first hand just how much can be achieve with a comprehensive approach that drive change , through a multitude of initiative . so although I welcome the Government ' s proposal to create a smokefree generation and to curb youth vaping , the smokefree ambition must be deliver for everyone , not just the next generation . the measure announce to date have not go far enough , not by any measure . as I walk through certain area of my constituency , I continue to be strike by the number of people who still smoke . More than 117 , 000 people have die prematurely from smoke in the north - east since 2000 ; it be our big preventable killer and it be devastating for the thousand of family whose loved one be lose each year . it also have significant implication for our health service and economic cost for our community . it be estimate that smoking cost County Durham almost £ 190 million each year , £ 22 million of which be spend on healthcare . so prevent ill health be key . the concept that prevention be well than cure be a pretty old - fashioned idea , but it work . after 13 year , Ministers have finally pick up on that with their smokefree announcement . smoking be a deadly addiction , one that can lock people into a cycle of poverty and be difficult to break out of without support . we also know that region with the high rate of poverty have the high rate of smoking in England and that smoking be one of the lead driver of health inequality in constituency up and down the country . not only do man and woman in the most deprived area have short life expectancy overall , but they live a large number of year suffer from ill health . so far , the Government have waste too much time . in 2021 , I table amendment to the Health and Care Bill to tackle smoking and youth vaping . my proposal include a levy on tobacco company ' profit to fund stop - smoking activity ; insert in pack contain health information , with link to smoking cessation service ; and a ban on tactic such as branding and sweet flavouring to market vape to child . to my amazement , not only do the Government fail to adopt my amendment , but they vote they down . those be common - sense proposal that enjoy cross - party support and the backing of health campaigner . if pass then , the amendment would have be law today . instead , the Government choose inaction . I hope that the amendment will return in whatever the government put before the House . since then , tobacco company have make record profit , leave taxpayer and their family to pick up the piece . we can not afford to waste any more time . last week , the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health publish its late recommendation for a smokefree future . the plan call for further regulation , such as increase the funding levy from the tobacco industry on a polluter - pay principle — a measure that could raise up to £ 700 million a year . the APPG report show that the polluter - pay levy be popular , feasible and support by voter of all political party , as well as the majority of tobacco retailer . tobacco manufacturer make an estimate £ 900 million profit in Britain each year , with an average net operating profit margin of about 50 % , compare with the less than 10 % average for british manufacturing . minister must take the APPG ' s recommendation into consideration . while the measure that the Government have announce be a step in the right direction , the devil will be in the detail . to ensure that we have the good possible legislation , I hope that the Minister will work with the APPG . we know that a strong cross - party consensus for legislative measure can make a real difference . we have see it all before . when a Labour Government ban smoking in enclose public place in 2007 , it be a measure that have once seem inconceivable . now it be baffle that we do not do it early . in the seven minute I have be speak for , at least one person have lose their life due to smoking and tobacco use , which mean that as mps we have a responsibility to stand up on this issue . as health inequality worsen and life remain at risk , the Government must make up for their lose time with bold action . they must ensure that the late Tory turbulence and the exit of yet another Health Secretary do not thwart progress . they must get on with the job . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) ; I will definitely follow on her theme . colleague may know that I be a strong advocate for vaping as a way for adult to quit smoking . as one of the vice - chair of the APPG for vaping , the tobacco and vape Bill announce in the King ' s Speech be of great interest to I . I have see so many of my friend and relation in North Tyneside make the switch from be heavy smoker to use — I stress this point — safe vaping product . I again stress the message that come from the Department : " if you smoke , change to vaping . if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape . " someone die from a smoking - relate death every eight minute , as my hon . friend just say . while not risk free , vaping be 95 % safe than smoking , but there be still more than 6 . 5 million adult smoker in the country who have not be able to quit smoking or change to vaping . vaping be the most effective tool that the UK have to achieve the goal of a smokefree 2030 , and it be crucial that the Government continue to promote these product to exist smoker so that they can transition to a less harmful alternative . in 2022 , King ' s College London restate that vape be 95 % safe than smoking , and switch to vaping be a critical recommendation of last year ' s Khan report , " make smoke obsolete " . it be unequivocal that under - 18 should not use or have any access to vaping product , but despite the Government ' s announcement to tackle youth vaping , it remain a major concern , and far more need to be do to address the issue . have the Government accept the amendment propose to the Health and Social Care Act 2022 by my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham in 2021 , there would have be strict regulation to stop vape appeal to child and we would not have see the trebling in the number of child vape in the past two year . measure be specifically need to target rogue manufacturer and retailer . ultimately , Trading Standards need to have the resource and power to enforce the law . since enter the UK in 2021 , disposable vape dominate the vaping market , with 70 % of disposable vape sale generate by new vape user , but we be now see a whole new raft of consumer — schoolchildren attract by low pricing , bright colour , sweet flavour and packaging replicate the branding of well - know confectionery , soft drink and much more . accord to the late figure highlight by the Chartered Trading Standards Institute , more than 138 million disposable vape be sell every year , and with one in three product be potentially non - compliant , that be more than 45 million non - compliant product be sell here every year . figure also reveal that 1 . 4 tonne of illegal vape be seize in the last six month of 2022 in the north - east of England alone , with Trading Standards officer across the country work tirelessly to try to combat the tidal wave of non - compliant vape . in 2022 , JTI UK commission test on a variety of popular disposable vape in the UK . the result discover that 25 out of 28 product be not legally compliant , as they all exceed the e - liquid volume and nicotine strength limit mandate by law . the Government must ensure that regulation be effective in target rogue vape producer and retailer , not the manufacturer who be make and sell they responsibly . while the sale of vape to child be the major concern , it be vital that the Government do not introduce restriction that result in few smoker turn to vaping product . accord to action on Smoking and Health , 40 % of smoker incorrectly believe that vaping be as or more harmful than smoking . it be critical that all e - cigarette and e - liquid , include product , packaging and marketing communication , do not appeal to minor by prohibit imagery , flavour name and descriptor , and environment or object that be typical of the world of child and youth , such as comic or cartoon character , toy or sweet . it be also important that the Government ensure vape appeal to adult smoker , maintain a low price point and flavour that be specifically aim at adult . part of the reason that vaping have be so successful in help smoker to quit be that it be significantly cheap than cigarette . should a tax be impose on these product , they will move out of the price range of low - income household and become relatively less attractive to smoker . that must not be overlook as the area with the high smoking rate be often some of the UK ' s poor . the UK Vaping Industry Association do not believe that an increase in price will stop youth vaping . it be already predict that as many illegal vape be sell as legal one , and if the price of legal product be increase , more and more child will revert to buy illicit product . flavour also play an important role in help smoker to quit . accord to a survey publish by OnePoll , 80 % of vaper seek to quit smoking consider the availability of flavour . additionally , 74 % of respondent note that flavour vape have be helpful in their effort to quit smoking . a balance have to be strike . ban disposable vape be not and should never be the answer . disposable vape be pivotal in provide an accessible way for smoker to try vaping before invest in vape . to conclude , I hope the Government ' s response to the consultation be successful and that the next Labour Government and the NHS , under the rein of the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , will go in the right direction and implement all the necessary regulation . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . it be a real pleasure to close this important debate and to follow my hon . friend the Members for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) and for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) who speak powerfully about the need to take more action to help people quit smoking and not take up smoking in the first place . as a former smoker myself , I wish to goodness that I have never ever take it up , and I can reassure member that a Labour Government would do everything within our power to take further action in this area . my right hon . friend the Members for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) and for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) rightly hold the Government to account for once again fail to bring forward legislation to reform the Mental Health Act 2007 , despite all the serious problem that need address , all the promise that have already be make and the cross - party agreement that there be on the need to act . my hon . friend the Members for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) and for Liverpool , Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) talk about the importance of reform social care — another area where promise have repeatedly be make and repeatedly be break — and the real importance of give old and disabled people more support in the community , rather than their end up in hospital , which be bad for they and bad for taxpayer . my hon . friend the Members for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) and for Ealing North ( James Murray ) rightly talk about the desperate need to build more affordable housing , include social housing , to tackle problem in the private rented sector , and to reform leasehold . those be huge issue in my constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) talk about the terrible problem of people wait in huge pain and distress in ambulance or on trolley in A & E , and many hon . member talk about the need to improve gp access and dentistry care . last but by no mean least be my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , who talk about the fantastic work her council be do to tackle health inequality , and the need to understand that a good job be part of a healthy life , and good health be vital to get a job . the point that I wish to make today be that the health of our nation be critical to the health of our economy and that , after 13 year of the Conservatives , both be in a perilous state . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to address these problem or meet the scale of the challenge we face . but Labour have a plan : to improve the health of the nation ; to get Britain work again ; and to give our country its future back . minister repeatedly attempt to claim that everything in the garden be rosy when it come to the state of our economy and to employment , but the truth be that we be the only country in the G7 with an employment rate that still have not return to pre - pandemic level . the underlying reason for that be the increase number of people out of work due to long - term sickness . some 2 . 6 million people be now shut out of the labour market due to ill health , which be the high number ever . frankly , that be a scandal in what be still , despite all our problem , one of the rich country in the world . around half of this group be more than 50 year old — that be more than double that of any other age group — and musculoskeletal problem , such as bad hip , knee , back and other joint , be the most common problem . many of the over - 50 be also care for elderly , sick or disabled love one , for which there be precious little help and support . woman be consistently more likely to be workless due to long - term sickness than man . indeed , woman account for more than two third of the increase that we have see over the past decade . but the rise in worklessness due to long - term sickness be not just an issue for old people ; there have be a sharp and hugely worrying increase in the number of young people not work due to ill health , predominantly drive by mental health problem — an issue that many of my colleague have raise . the number of 18 to 24 - year - old who be workless due to ill health have double in the last decade , while the number of 24 to 35 - year - old have almost treble . those problem be even more likely for young people who lack basic qualification and who live in part of the country that be struggle economically , often outside our big city in town and rural and coastal area . the fact that such problem be more likely to affect certain part of the country in the midland and the north come as no surprise to Opposition Members . in Conservative Britain , people be twice as likely to be out of work due to ill health if they live in one of the most deprived area in England than if they live in the least deprived area , with rate of economic inactivity due to long - term sickness in the north - east and midland almost double that of London and the south - east . that really matter to family , to our economy and to wide society . be shut out of work because of poor health be terrible for individual , especially during a cost of living crisis . it be bad for business , which need to draw on the skill and talent of all our population if they be to grow , expand and thrive . it be also bad for taxpayer , who be now pay an extra £ 15 . 7 billion a year in lose tax revenue and high benefit bill , compare with before the pandemic . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the rise in health - relate economic inactivity pose a significant risk to our fiscal sustainability , because it reduce our prospect for growth , reduce tax receipt and put ever - increase pressure on health and welfare spending . yet despite all that , we have not see a plan from Conservative Members that be anywhere near serious enough to get Britain work again . no doubt , when he rise to speak , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will tell we about work coach and health mot for the over - 50 . I be not against those measure — I support they ; I have meet work coach in my own jobcentre , and I know how hard they be work to try to support people back into work — but they be nowhere near big or fundamental enough to get to grip with the root cause of worklessness , or to reform the way the system run . Britain deserve so much well , and that be what Labour will deliver . our top priority will be to ensure that everyone who can work do work . we believe that the benefit of work go beyond a payslip to the dignity and self - respect that good work bring . we will tear down the barrier to success , tackle the root cause of worklessness and get Britain work again . our long - term plan for the NHS will invest an extra £ 1 . 1 billion a year , pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status to provide 2 million more appointment a year and clear the NHS backlog — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) laugh , but I say to he : if you be a woman stick on a waiting list , wait for help and treatment for your hip , for your knee , for your back , you would not be laugh . we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health staff , with support in every school and every community to tackle mental health problem in young people early on . but that be not all . we will transform jobcentre so that they provide personalised help and support , work in genuine partnership with local employer and service , and help people not just to get work , but to get on in their work , with all the benefit that progression from low pay bring . that be an issue that the Government ' s own review say they need to tackle , but they have completely fail to act on it . for a shadow spokesperson , the hon . Lady be make some good point , but she have just raise the interaction of the non - dom status and the health service . as she will be aware , the General Medical Council say today how important it be that we continue to attract doctor from overseas , but many would be impact by a change in the non - dom status . how will labour ' s policy affect our ability to recruit people from overseas for our health service ? I have speak to many doctor who come to work in the hospital in my constituency — and Bedford . — and in many other part of the country , and they want to come , work and support the work that we do . we have look at all those issue and take they into account , and make a small - c conservative estimate of the impact that it would have . we be confident that that will provide the resource we need to get the backlog down and get Britain work again . we will overhaul skill with new technical excellence college and by reform apprenticeship , so that no one be ever write off again , whatever their age . we will devolve employment support to local area to well meet local need , because the man — or even woman — in Whitehall can never know what be really need in Leicester , Liverpool or Leeds . we will grow our economy in every part of the country by get Britain building , through our plan to make Britain a clean energy superpower , and by ensure that we be the good place to start up and grow a business . those be the long - term change that our country need . in contrast , the King ' s Speech just tinker at the edge or ignore those problem all together . and what have we see today ? the late round of chaos , confusion and division in the conservative party — a party so concerned about its own future that it can not focus on the future of the country , prove once more than it can never be the change from 13 year of its own failure — and a weak Prime Minister , finally force to sack his Home Secretary , and to bring back a former Prime Minister he accuse only week ago of be part of a fail status quo , in a desperate attempt to save his own neck . the people of this country deserve well . they want change . it be time for an election so Labour can give Britain its future back . may I begin by welcome the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , to her place ? this have be a good and full debate . it have , in large part , be fairly well - inform , although I think the quality of the offering from behind I be a little ahead of that from in front . none the less , it have be a good and passionate debate . no effort today be in any way well than that of my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) , who give we a virtuoso example of a maiden speech . he refer to the fact that it be in his constituency that Winston Churchill first utter the immortal word , " never in the field of human conflict be so much owe by so many to so few . " of course , Churchill then repeat that in this Chamber , but not with the same eloquence as my hon . friend , and he certainly do not manage to squeeze in a tribute to the Middlesex Arms , my hon . friend ' s local pub , where I be sure a free beer await he — that be probably where he be at this very moment . now that I too , in addition to he , have mention his local pub , I hope that a second pint await he . there be certain thing that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , and I can agree on , and smoking be one of they . I be interested to learn that she be a former smoker . they always say that former smoker have a passionate desire to stop other people smoke , and she certainly demonstrate that . we know that one in four cancer be cause by smoking . [ Official Report , 20 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 2mc . ] as a father of three young daughter , vaping be of great concern to I personally , and I be pleased to see the reference in the King ' s Speech to get on top of those kind of product and the way in which they be retail . the hon . Lady also mention mental health , as do many of this afternoon ' s speaker . we have say that we will come forward with a mental health Bill if parliamentary time allow , and of course that do not mean we have not already do a very great deal in exactly that space , or will not do a great deal far . some £ 2 billion of extra funding be already go into mental healthcare compare with four year ago , with a 20 % increase in staffing since 2010 . it do not stop there : we will also be bring forward mental health hospital and 100 specialist ambulance . we have now be wait six year for a change to the Mental Health Act 1983 . the Minister say that the Government be commit to mental health , but early this year we see the 10 - year mental health and wellbeing plan scrap . I be sorry , but I have to say to the Minister that word be pretty hollow ; when it come to action , the Government be do very little . I have just set out for the right hon . gentleman two very significant action that this Government have take : £ 2 billion of additional funding compare with just four year ago , and a staff increase of some 20 % since 2010 . I have to pick up on the non - dom point , because we hear it so often from the opposition . those poor old non - dom be go to be pay for the entire british economy over and over again . they pay UK taxis on their UK income , and it be just not realistic to expect to be gain more tax in the long term as a result of tax they . we have hear much about wait for NHS service . we have be work very hard on that issue , and it have to be recognise that we have have a pandemic , as well as a considerable amount of industrial action . frankly , if the opposition have do more with their trade union paymaster to encourage they to go back to work , we would have have small backlog than we do at the moment . we have already largely eradicate the 18 - month wait ; the two - year wait have already be abolish ; and we be roll out all sort of approach to make sure we have more provision go forward , include 140 new surgical hub . when Labour tell we about their plan , we need only to look at Wales , where we can see the result of Labour ' s stewardship of the health service : on average , wait time in Wales be five week long than in England . the hon . member for Leicester West spend some time discuss employment , an area in which we have a first - class record . economic inactivity , which she raise , be almost 300 , 000 low than it be at its peak during the pandemic : it be below the average level of the OECD and the average level across the European Union . unemployment be at a near - historic low , the number of those in payroll employment be at a near - historic high , and youth unemployment be down 44 % on 2010 . what happen under the Labour party ? as Opposition member know , it go up by almost exactly the same amount — another 44 % . labour be the party of unemployment ; it have never leave office with unemployment anything other than high than when it come in . under Labour ' s stewardship , 1 . 4 million people be languish on long - term benefit for over a decade , and that be a disgrace . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that " a sustained rise in health - relate inactivity pose a significant risk to fiscal sustainability by reduce the UK ' s medium - term economic growth prospect and tax receipt " . do the Secretary of State disagree with the OBR ? I do not , inasmuch as I recognise that long - term sick and disability have be on a rise trend for at least five year now . the hon . Lady know that , but that be not the point that I be make ; neither be it the point that she be make when she refer to the figure on economic inactivity . that bring I to what this Government be do . in the previous Budget , the Chancellor set forth plan for £ 2 billion to go towards resolve issue around long - term sickness and disability . we have consult on occupational health across business to get upstream of this issue . the hon . Lady will know of our White Paper and the structural reform that will make sure that , for the 2 . 5 million people on long - term sickness and disability benefit , we always focus on what those people can do , not on what they can not do . the universal support we be roll out be there to place people into work and give they a whole year ' s worth of support , so we can make sure that those people stay in work . she will be aware of the pilot that we be now roll out under the Work well banner , which be there to bring people together with work . we believe that be one of the answer to mental health issue alongside medical support . of course , we have just conclude our work capability assessment consultation , in which we be look at how we can far help those people who can and want to work to go into employment , because we believe that that , ultimately , be in the good interest not just of the economy and of society , but very much of those people themselves . this Government be not afraid to take long - term decision in the national interest . the next generation of welfare reform that I be bring forward be part of this Government ' s mission to deliver a well future for everyone across the country . it be a future that bring together employment support and healthcare to help disabled people and those with health condition to realise their full potential . it be a future in which , thank to the decision we be now take , the NHS can deliver well care in a change world . it be a future that see the first smoke - free generation become a reality , a future in which the most vulnerable in society continue to be the Government ' s priority and be protect , and a future where work grow our economy , but perhaps more importantly still , change live , with thousand more people enjoy all the financial , social and health benefit that employment bring . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . Seaton Community Hospital Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) I would like to welcome the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , to her place . I rise to raise the press situation face the community hospital at Seaton in the part of east Devon that I represent . I be very grateful for the opportunity to outline why plan to strip away a whole wing of the hospital pose a serious risk to the long - term viability of the hospital , and how small action by the Government can unlock this space and provide huge benefit for the local community . Seaton Hospital be one of 12 community hospital that provide vital service in my corner of Devon which be give over to NHS Property Services in 2016 . Seaton Hospital provide a range of service and clinic that enable people to be care for close to home in their own community . I would like to take a moment to give hon . and right hon . member an idea of the range of service that the hospital currently provide . they include a dedicated Chime audiology service , aneurysm screening , bladder and bowel treatment , and child and adolescent mental health service — we hear a lot about that in today ' s health debate — as well as access to a dietician , ear , nose and throat specialist , general medicine , orthoptist , support for those with Parkinson ' s , physiotherapy , podiatry , retinal screening , speech and language therapy , and stoma treatment . I could go on . the hospital also act as a hub for the grow number of so - call at - home care service . we appreciate that community hospital have be increasingly move over to service provide in the community at home . that include provision for those who be frail and need regular care , or be reach the end of their life . indeed , the Seaton & District Hospital League of Friends support the hospice at home professional , who provide care to people and their family in those most difficult time of a person ' s life or in a family ' s life . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . when someone evaluate what a community hospital do , they find that it be about much more than finance and make sure that the book balance . it be about all the thing the hon . Gentleman have refer to . the community hospital in my constituency be where my three child be bear some 30 - plus year ago . it be where I take my young son when he break his arm . it be where I take my other boy when he put his hand through a glass window and have to go to hospital for surgery . that be what a community hospital be about , and that feeling be replicate by every one of my constituent . when the hon . Gentleman speak about his local community hospital , I be quite sure that he have the same passion , belief and commitment to that hospital , because it be part of the community , and that be how it be measure , not by finance . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . his anecdote about what that hospital have do for his family and community be absolutely the same sort of thing as I hear from constituent every time I speak to they . Seaton Hospital be build in 1988 to provide well local access to medical care and treatment for people across the Axe valley . it serve people not only in Seaton but in Colyton , Colyford , Beer , Axmouth and other village dot around the east Devon countryside . originally , the plan be that people would not have to travel so far for their treatment . give that the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital be perhaps 30 mile away — 20 mile at least — people feel that acute provision be on their doorstep , which be what they want . the hon . Member be make a stand for a community hospital use by people in both our constituency , and I congratulate he on have secure the debate . I live less than 10 mile from Seaton Hospital . so many resident raise fund to build the wing , which first open back in 1991 . do the hon . Member agree that it would be so wrong for local resident to have to pay twice for a building that they help to fundraise for and build ? the hon . Member make an excellent point . it be exactly right that Seaton Community Hospital be build by local people . let I expand on that important point , because a lot of people have talk to I about this and I want to relay to the House the feeling they have speak to I about at recent local community meeting . the hospital be build over two storey and update in 1990 with an acute wing , which be fund not just 50 % by the local community but 100 % by local donation . the important thing to note be that the construction would not have be possible at all be it not for the contribution by local individual . for example , the Seaton & District Hospital League of Friends have a scheme call " be a brick : donate to Seaton Hospital " . People could make a small contribution — whatever they could afford — and get a little brick as a memento to demonstrate that they have contribute to Seaton Community Hospital . the charity be still a vocal champion of the hospital to this day . the project would not have happen have it not be for the generosity of the local people . what come with that be a sense of ownership that I can not really stress enough . there be a really strong feeling that the hospital do not belong to some amorphous nhs : it be their hospital . they pay for it , they be treat in it and it belong to they . several week ago , I be contact by the League of Friends charity after it learn from the Devon NHS that the plan be to hand over the two - storey wing from the Devon NHS to NHS Property Services . the charity be concerned that this could lead , eventually , to the selling off of the hospital wing , and even to its demolition . as soon as I hear that , alarm bell be set ring for I . it be clear that Devon ' s integrate care board be keen to wash its hand of the facility as quickly as it can . in essence , the facility be in special measure , and in a financially dire place . the wing be cost the Devon NHS about £ 300 , 000 a year , bill by NHS Property Services . I be not all that familiar with NHS Property Services a year ago . I have hear of it , but I be under the impression that it be just another division of the NHS . I look into it a bit far , and I find that it be responsible for the maintenance and support of most local NHS facility . I be surprised to find that it be a government - own company , legally own by one shareholder . the single shareholder for NHS Property Services be the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . as of today , the hon . member for Louth and Horncastle can congratulate herself on take on NHS Property Services as her new holding . how can it be the case that a hospital build with the generous support of local people be now own directly by NHS Property Services , rather than those local people ? in 2016 , the Government transfer that facility over to NHS Property Services and implement a consolidated charge policy to levy charge for rent , maintenance and service charge . some of those charge be extortionate . we be talk about £ 300 , 000 a year , which be £ 247 a square metre . on paper , it might seem prudent to organise the NHS with some commercial expertise in charge of some of these facility . however , we have to bear it in mind that the people run NHS Property Services be not necessarily think about it through the lens of health and social care ; they be think about how they can maximise the utility of space and make saving to put money back into budget . that be worry , because what I be hear be that the offer be make to NHS Devon be , " if you wash your hand of this facility , you will receive 50 % of the proceed of the sale " — that will be to the NHS Devon integrate care board — " and 50 % of the proceed will go back into central coffer , back to Whitehall and back into the very large pot that be the NHS . " the House can imagine what that be like for an individual constituent in my part of east Devon , who have contribute perhaps ten or hundred of pound — as much as they could afford — in decade go by , perhaps through a direct debit or regular payment , to maintain the facility . to hear that those decade of investment will be put back into a big pool in London , a long way away , be pretty sickening . there have be an understandable backlash from people right across my corner of Devon . I have be to a couple of public meeting in recent week since the news break . at Colyford Memorial Hall a couple of week ago , there be more than 200 people . it be a clich é to say there be standing room only , but there be no standing room — there be a long queue of people outside in the rain want to get into the meeting . People have one override feeling that they want to convey to I , and that they want I to convey to the Minister and to other gather here this evening : they create this hospital and they be deeply offend by the idea that it might be take away . what put salt into those wound be the idea that that should happen with zero public consultation . my hon . friend be make a passionate speech on behalf of his community . what strike I be that when the community come forward and make those contribution or buy those brick , they do not do so to save the hospital at that point . I be pretty sure , like the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , that they make that contribution to maintain the hospital for future generation . I be not surprised that it feel like a betrayal to my hon . friend ' s constituent . I very much thank my hon . friend for her contribution . she be exactly right . I point to two specific conversation I have have with constituent recently . the first be with someone who live in Seaton , who be close enough to the hospital that she could walk there . her husband die in the hospital and she be able to go and see he in his final day . she well up — more than that , tear roll down her cheek — as she tell I about her husband , who she be able to see in his final day . now we have move to a situation in which patient be care for at home . of course , that mean that some of the staff previously base out of the community hospital be drive to people ' s driveway and provide that care in their home . that work for some individual , but the other day I have a lady in my surgery who be almost shake with nervousness because her husband , whom she love dearly , have just be discharge from the acute hospital in Exeter and she be charge with look after he but do not feel able to look after his need , as he be overcome his operation towards the end of his life . we be put some of our constituent in a really difficult situation that they do not feel equipped for . the reason for the bed be remove from the hospital in 2017 relate to so - call workforce issue . there be a substantial consultation of local people in 2017 when bed be remove from local hospital , but I fear that follow that consultation , which show the outrage and indignation of local people , the NHS do not want to get involve such a consultation exercise again , hence the desire for the ICB to get shoot of the building as soon as possible . the ICB be talk about get shot of it by the end of this calendar year , although that have go to Devon County Council ' s health scrutiny committee , so it may be push into next year . what we need tonight be an intervention from the Minister in relation to NHS Property Services , which be charge a clinical rate for a space that have not be use for acute medicine — it have not have clinical bed in it — since 2017 . organisation be come forward with a desire to use it not for clinical use but as a care hub to provide other service . I want to make hon . member aware of how those clinical bed get remove in the first place . in 2017 , there be deep concern that the removal of the bed be an arbitrary decision make follow a last - minute intervention by the then right hon . member for East Devon , Hugo , now Lord Swire . in fact , it be reveal in a book by his wife , Sasha , that Seaton Hospital be to be keep open , with its bed maintain , but , because of that last - minute intervention by Hugo Swire , the bed closure move to Seaton and the Sidmouth Hospital bed remain . as a result of that decision , there be no additional funding to set up extra service at Seaton . instead , the ICB begin charge this exceedingly high rent for an empty space . what we really need to do be reduce that rental fee from its clinical rate to one that acknowledge that there be community alternative . the palliative care nursing team can operate out of this space , and organisation such as Restore and hospice at home carer can work out of it , too . the friend of Seaton and District Hospital be come up with a strong business plan , but they do need more time to develop it and a concessionary rate — not the clinical rate — to operate from it . if no solution be find , the ward be most likely to be either sell off or demolish . again — I can not stress this enough — we need to do this for the people who feel that they pay for the hospital . there be a precedent for it , and I be grateful to the hon . member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) for let I know that the hospital in Cornwall be save from the jaw of NHS Property Services . however , there be a big difference between what I be propose for Seaton and what happen at St Ives . St Ives hospital be pay for by a single philanthropist . as we have hear , Seaton Hospital be pay for with contribution — or subscription — from thousand of people . the widow ' s mite . exactly . finally , when it come to healthcare infrastructure in rural area such as mine , it be so much hard to rebuild something once it have be remove than to maintain it . we see in coastal and rural community such as mine the damage that the closure of cottage hospital cause , and the impact of remove bed from community hospital . we must put a stop to that , before our rural healthcare centre be leave empty skeletal shell of their former self , where they be once hub of love and care . I be look forward to the Minister ' s response and hope that she will agree to work constructively with I , as Seaton ' s MP , to ensure a fair deal for local people and to protect our hospital for the people who buy and contribute to it . I congratulate the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) on secure this debate . I appreciate his interest and concern about the future of Seaton community hospital . as he say , it be build only as a result of a huge fundraising campaign in the local community , which be match pound for pound by the NHS . it therefore hold a lot of importance for the hon . member ' s constituent . I fully understand his interest in make good use of the facility . I know that my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) also want to see this situation resolve , and I meet he early to talk about it . I remind the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton that decision about the use of NHS property such as this community hospital be take at a local level — as they should be — and not by a Minister in Whitehall . it may be helpful to recap some of the history , as the hon . member cover in his speech . between 2015 and 2017 , the then NHS clinical commissioning group — CCG — undertake a recommissioning of community service in Devon . that be about introduce a new model of care — more integrated and more community base , with more people receive care at home . I hear he raise concern about that model and the shift to get care close to the community . my ministerial brief include support the discharge of people from acute hospital to try to care for more people in their own home . some patient spend long in hospital than be good for their recovery , so for many people it be much well that , when they be declare fit for discharge , they recover and receive care at home . return to the situation of this particular community hospital , as part of the commission change there be a change of lead NHS trust as the provider of service in local community hospital . that mean that ownership of 12 community hospital , include Seaton , be transfer from the former NHS provider trust to NHS Property Services , as the hon . Member speak about . NHS Property Services ' model of charge a market rent for property be to build an incentive to make good long - term decision about the use of building . NHS Property Services then invest that income into those property and the service that they provide . at the point of transfer , many community hospital in Devon have a large amount of empty space . the transfer happen on the basis that the NHS commission body — now the ICB — would be responsible for the full cost of that space . the cost include the recovery of the market rent and service charge , such as energy , rate , cleaning and maintenance . over the past seven year , progress have be make to identify sustainable , alternative healthcare use for vacant space in other community hospital in Devon , such as in Axminster and Ottery St Mary ' s . however , I understand that Seaton and some other still have significant amount of vacant space . in addition , the ICB and NHS Property Services have work closely with the voluntary sector , and have support local initiative in some property , such as the Waffle caf é at Seaton Hospital . however , it be for the local commissioner — not NHS Property Services — to determine the good use of the healthcare space that they be responsible for . despite sincere effort from the ICB , I understand that no sustainable healthcare use have be identify for the former ward space at Seaton , which add up to about half the hospital space . I know the hon . member ' s constituent be frustrate by this situation . local community group have express an interest in take on some of the empty ward space , but they see the level of charge as an insurmountable barrier . the ICB have explore a range of potential healthcare use with NHS provider , but the proposal have not yet come to fruition , so I know the situation be not satisfactory for they either . the cost to the system of the vacant space be a pressure on the health budget . clearly , have unused space be not a good use of resource and , ultimately , taxpayer ' money . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gagan Mohindra . ) it be important to note that NHSPS operate on a cost recovery basis . that mean any reduction in its charge count as a loss to the health budget if it be not directly offset by actual cost reduction in the facility . as the hon . Member mention , the annual charge for the vacant space in this facility be approximately £ 300 , 000 , of which £ 140 , 000 be the rental charge . the rest be spend on a share of the utility , business rate , maintenance and cleaning cost for the property . I be grateful to the Minister for explain the charge - back system . could she explain why the NHS be charge the NHS and hence the NHS can not have this space , and why it can not be use for health purpose ? could she explain the charge mechanism a little bit more please ? the hon . Gentleman say it can not be use for health purpose . what I understand be that what be be look at be what healthcare it can be use for , albeit recognise the shift of more care into the community and the change model of care . on the way the system work , in essence the philosophy behind NHSPS be to ensure that good possible use be make of property . if there be no charge associate with the use of building , we could get lot of building sit empty and there be not the same incentive to ensure the good possible use of facility and resource . that be the philosophy behind have this kind of system . I think he mention in his speech bring specific expertise together as part of the organisation that be NHSPS . I hope that address his query . will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress , if that be all right . as I outline , the ICB be require to pay for the cost and it be not sustainable for the ward space to remain empty for a far lengthy period of time . when an ICB decide there be no long - term healthcare use for an asset , it will usually be sell to allow the fund to be reinveste elsewhere . I have be tell that that be not the plan in the case of Seaton community hospital , not least because half the building be an operational health facility and the ICB be fully commit to keep those service open . I also appreciate that a huge fundraising effort be put in by the local community to build the wing at the hospital in the first place , a point that my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) make when he intervene early , and so sell the facility would not be what the community want . we know that provide high - quality care and support in the community benefit patient , and their carer and family , help people to stay well and independent for long . across the country , we have achieve a lot as part of our commitment to move more care out into the community . for example , urgent community response service be do a great job of help to keep people out of hospital when they be at risk of a crisis . virtual ward or hospital - at - home service be provide hospital - level care in people ' s own home , help to avoid admission to hospital and allow early discharge , and ensure extra support be there if somebody be concerned about be discharge home , or , as I hear the hon . member mention , be concerned about a family member be discharge home . I be grateful to the Minister for raise the concept of the virtual ward in this context . it remind I a little of conversation that I have have with constituent in recent month about the virtual shopping experience , the virtual rail ticket purchasing experience , and the difficulty that they be have in deal with human . I think that the last thing people want when it come to health and social care be " virtual " . they want the human touch . I can only encourage the hon . Gentleman to visit a team that support a virtual ward , and speak to some patient who have be care for through hospital at home or virtual ward . I have do both , and the feedback from patient be phenomenally positive . if someone be concerned about be discharge and support in this way , it do not happen , but many people would much rather recover in their own home with that support than be in a hospital where it be hard to get a good night ' s sleep because there so much go on around they . moreover , while people recover in their own home , bed be free up for people who really need acute hospital care on site . a third model that be do very well in help people to receive care close to home be the proactive care model deliver by multidisciplinary neighbourhood team . these be real game - changer , help people to live independently and stay out of hospital . the team consist of — among other — doctor , nurse , care worker , ally healthcare professional , all come together to ensure that people have the care that they need in order not to be go in and out of hospital , as sometimes happen when people become unwell . while I fully understand the hon . Gentleman ' s frustration , I have be assure that the integrate care board , local provider and NHS Property Services be work together to resolve the situation at Seaton Hospital to ensure that facility — and , indeed , fund — be put to good use for patient . question put and agree to . House adjourn .