Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — UK Visas and Immigration : Processing Times what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of UK Visas and Immigration processing time . UK Visas and Immigration process million of visa application each year . Most of they be process to the publish customer service standard , which be a huge tribute to our hard - work staff , and indeed most straightforward application be decide within three week . in the year end March 2025 , more than 2 . 1 million visit visa , more than 190 , 000 work visa and more than 22 , 000 health and social care visa be issue . on occasion , as the hon . member may be aware , there be some technical or processing error , which be resolve as quickly as possible when they come to light . this be not about call centre answering and application processing time ; it be about the backlog in digital status become fully operational . a North East Fife constituent have settle status and have do all the step in set up her UKVI account , yet on both her recent trip abroad she be tell that her passport be not link to her e - visa . be this a one - off , in which case can the Minister review what have go wrong ? or be it a system failure , in which case what be the Minister do to address it ? I thank the hon . member for her question . I would be happy to look at that case . the personal detail on the document associate with that person ' s e - visa may well have not be update . update the detail may be the first step necessary , after which the issue may go away . the problem with the immigration system we inherit be that it have very high level of low - skilled immigration , but what the economy actually need be low level of high - skilled immigration . we need to attract worldwide top talent for some key sector , many of which be base in Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , so that we remain globally competitive , but business tell I that long visa processing time work against that . now that we be see low level of immigration , will the Government be reprioritise resource so we see fast processing of skilled worker visa ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he will be aware that visa processing time can vary base on the type of visa and where people be apply from . however , for most application , even those make outside the UK , decision be usually make within three week . he will also be aware that we be look at how to reform our immigration system as a result of the record level of net migration under the previous Government , and make sure that we focus our immigration on the need of our economy be a priority for this Government . I call the shadow Minister . new research show that foreign national be claim almost £ 1 billion in benefit each month . we now face the high number of asylum claim ever record — up another 9 % since Labour take office . meanwhile , the 42 , 000 appeal backlog at the end of 2024 be project to more than double to almost 100 , 000 by the end of this year . the Home Secretary herself have admit to the medium that her White Paper would cut immigration by just 50 , 000 . this be utterly inadequate . without real deterrence and strict measure , the visa processing delay will only worsen , so will the Minister commit to two concrete measure : implement the previous conservative threshold of £ 38 , 000 ; and introduce a legally binding annual migration cap that actually deliver accountability ? order . can I just say to the shadow Minister that we have a lot of member to get in — I want to get to question 15 on the Order Paper — and I need her help to do so ? this be yet another example of the opposition want to rewrite history . the Conservatives quadruple net migration to record level . I think the hon . Member will want to correct herself on the immigration White Paper , which will be reduce net migration by considerably more than she suggest ; the Home Secretary have say so . the late figure show that , since this government come to power , almost 30 , 000 foreign criminal , fail asylum seeker and other with no right to be in the UK have be remove . that include an increase of enforce return in the last quarter compare with the same period last year , which be a much well record than the shadow Home Secretary could achieve . neighbourhood police what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood police in Bracknell Forest . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . what step her Department be take to improve neighbourhood policing . we be provide £ 200 million across England and Wales this financial year to increase neighbourhood policing . as part of our neighbourhood policing guarantee , every community will have name , contactable officer dedicate to address local issue . alongside that , during the course of this year we will have 3 , 000 additional officer and police community support officer work in neighbourhood team . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) that , for Thames Valley police , that will include an extra 68 police officer on the street this year . Bracknell Forest have see a spate of tool theft recently . tool theft be a double whammy : trader have to fork out thousand for new tool , all while they be out of work . I have raise this issue with Thames Valley police and the police and crime commissioner , but what more can be do through the Government ' s neighbourhood policing guarantee to stamp down on this cruel crime ? my hon . friend be exactly right to raise that serious crime . honest , hard - work tradespeople in community across the country be be rob of their livelihood as a result of this kind of crime . that be why we be work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on how we target the serious and organised crime that be often behind such equipment and tool theft , and put neighbourhood police back on the street in community , so they can both work on prevention and go after the criminal responsible . under the previous Government , the number of pcso more than halve in Warwickshire . indeed , in summer 2023 , local teacher be force to police a park in Warwick and Leamington after a knife gang terrorise pupil , steal their bike . more widely , constituent be feed up with crime and antisocial behaviour ; 50 % say that they have be personally impact by crime in the past five year . will the Home Secretary outline how the Government will address these crime and make our street safe for everyone ? my hon . friend be right to raise the importance of pcso as well as police officer in neighbourhood team work to prevent crime . he be also right to raise concern . over the last two year of the previous Government , both street theft and shoplifting increase by more than 60 % , at the same time as neighbourhood police be cut . we be put the bobby back on the beat . this week , I will be meet eight new community police officer who begin their role on the beat thank to the Government ' s investment through the national policing guarantee . do the Home Secretary agree that invest in community policing be the good way to tackle so much of the crime that blight our community ? will she join I in wish these vital officer all the good as they begin their new role ? my hon . friend be right to welcome the additional neighbourhood police in Thurrock . she will know that that be part of 74 additional neighbourhood police officer across Essex just this year , as a result of our neighbourhood policing guarantee , and we will go beyond that . she be right , too , that local police who know what the problem be in Thurrock and across Essex be crucial to tackle local crime . across neighbourhood in my Earley and Woodley constituency I have see too many incident of electric bike and electric scooter be ride dangerously , include on pavement . resident have tell I of collision in area such as Woodley Precinct and Kennet Island . I have be raise the issue with Thames Valley police , and I be very glad to hear the Home Secretary ' s announcement of 68 neighbourhood officer across our region , but what more can she and the Home Office do to support the work of the police in crack down on dangerous rider ? my hon . friend be right : we need to make sure that Thames Valley have the 68 additional neighbourhood police just this year and give they the power they need . that be why we be strengthen the Crime and Policing Bill both on dangerous cycling and dangerous riding , and give the police strong power to take e - scooter and off - road bike literally off the road . I recently meet the chief constable of West Mercia to discuss neighbourhood policing . the West Mercia area cover Worcestershire , Herefordshire and Shropshire , and the word be that the integrate care board reorganisation will split that area into one that cover Warwickshire and one that cover some of Shropshire . I have have a letter from the police and crime commissioner cite the chief constable ' s concern that amid that reorganisation and the local government reorganisation , safeguard the most vulnerable and child could fall between the crack . will the Home Secretary have a word with her Cabinet colleague to ensure that do not happen ? the hon . Member make a really important point , because have link between local service be crucial . we will ensure that the Home Office look into and take up the point she raise , so we can ensure strong local partnership work to tackle crime . last week , I visit many retail business in North Devon that be suffer from prolific shoplifting . this be a big problem across the country . will the Home Secretary explain what she be do to help police force resource the tackling of shoplift and deal with antisocial behaviour ? the hon . member be right . there have be an increase in shoplift in recent year , at the same time as neighbourhood police number have fall . as a result of the neighbourhood policing guarantee , there will be 110 additional neighbourhood police officer and pcso in Devon and Cornwall police over the next 12 month . that be important , but we be also strengthen their power to tackle shoplifting . will the Home Secretary acknowledge the role that special constable play in neighbourhood policing , and do she agree that grant special constable the right to unpaid time from their employment to perform their duty would assist in their recruitment ? the hon . Member make a really important point about the role of special . we want they to be able to play a much strong role , not just in neighbourhood police but across the board . People who take time out to be part of police force can bring all kind of additional skill . we be work on what more can be do to support special and their recruitment , which have plummet in recent year . it be important that that trend be turn around . in North Ascot , neighbourhood police have be out on the street try to clamp down on pavement parking , which force disabled and vulnerable people on to the road and into dangerous situation . will the Home Secretary outline what more could be do to help neighbourhood police when it come to pavement parking ? the hon . Member will know that neighbourhood police understand the challenge in each area , whether it be in North Ascot or other part of the country , and local police can target those issue and work with local council . there be different rule for different council , so combine work between the council and the police be the good way to tackle local crime . I call the shadow Minister . six of Britain ' s most senior police officer have warn that the Government ' s action be make it hard to keep our street safe . from the damaging job tax to release criminal early , Labour be push force to the brink . do the Home Secretary agree with Met Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley that he will be force to cut 1 , 700 police officer , pcso and staff this year ? I gently remind the hon . member that thousand of police and pcso be take off our street under the Conservatives . that be why the number of people who say that they never see the police in their community double under the Conservatives . this government be turn that around , with 3 , 000 additional police on our street this year alone . that include 470 more neighbourhood police on London ' s street . we do not get to whether Mark Rowley be right or wrong , and I notice that the Home Secretary forget to mention the hundred of million be gobble up by labour ' s job tax , or the fact that police number reach record level under the last government . that aside , the National Police Chiefs ' Council have publish its anti - racism commitment , say that racial equality do not mean treat everyone the same or be colour blind , and call for arrest rate to be artificially engineer to be the same across racial group . do the Home Secretary agree that the police should respond to people ' s action regardless of race ? if so , why do the police Minister endorse this barmy document ? the shadow Minister be , as he know , talk nonsense . the police have to police without fear or favour ; that be the standard that they apply and sign up to . I be really sorry that he want to undermine the important work of police across the country , just as his party in government undermine the number of police on the street — take they off the street — so we end up with thousand few police on our street . this government be finally put they back into community and back on the beat where they belong . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . peaceful protest be a fundamental right in any free society , but for protest to remain safe and orderly , a visible , well - train and effective police presence be often need on top of exist neighbourhood police team . city such as Manchester be see rise number of demonstration , which the combine authority estimate will cost up to £ 2 million this year to police . while the Met receive specific grant to cover the cost of police protest , Greater Manchester police receive no such allocation . that be not only unfair to my constituent , but unsustainable . in the light of the worry highlight by police leader about their funding be cut in the upcoming spending review , can the Home Secretary ensure that area such as Greater Manchester receive the funding they need to police protest properly without take away from the neighbourhood police our community deserve ? we will continue to support Greater Manchester police and police force across the country . it be right that they should be able to deal with issue and challenge , include public order . we be strengthen the system in that area as a result of weakness in the national co - ordination that we have inherit . I can tell the hon . Lady that Greater Manchester police will be get 176 additional police officer for their neighbourhood team over the course of this year . Vehicle Nuisance what step her Department be take to help tackle the antisocial use of off - road bike . what step her Department be take to help tackle vehicle nuisance . off - road bike career through estate and community be dangerous and an antisocial nightmare . we be give the police strong power to seize bike without the need for repeat warning , in order to help keep our street safe . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . my constituent around Weston Shore have have enough of exactly the kind of thing she describe . antisocial motorbike be race outside their home every night . the constant noise disturb everyone ' s sleep , yet they have see no meaningful enforcement in recent year . the Secretary of State have outline that further power be come . will she confirm that she expect local police force to use these power fully to tackle this issue seriously , so that this blight on my constituent ' life can be stop ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the issue he raise will resonate with people across the country ; whether it be Southampton or south Tyneside , too many area be face the blight of off - road bike and street racing . at the moment , the police have to give people multiple warning . it can be two strike or three strike and the bike be still on the street . that be not good enough . we want to make it much easy for the police , so that it be one strike and out . I thank the Home Secretary for her response . in Kent we be use section 59 power to confiscate bike , include in Snodland and Walderslade in my constituency . however , the police have state that the legislation be not powerful enough , and that they welcome power to seize bike . can we ensure that police inspector and police and crime commissioner be give guidance and that the number of vehicle seize be monitor , so that we can stop this problem once and for all ? my hon . friend be right ; we need to ensure that the police have the power that they need and be able to act swiftly . we want to make it easy for they to crush bike more quickly as well as to seize they and take they off the street , and that require additional neighbourhood police . in Kent , that mean an additional 65 neighbourhood police officer , and there be similar number for Hampshire . many resident in my constituency complain about motorcycle noise from illegally modify exhaust . can the Home Secretary inform I of her plan to help local police and local authority address this nuisance ? the hon . member be right to raise this issue . noise and speed be use deliberately in order to harass people and intimidate local resident . it be disgraceful antisocial behaviour , and it be really unfair on local family . that be why we need to give the police strong power to clamp down on it . off - road bike be often use illegally across private farmland , cause damage to crop , spook animal and leave farmer feel scared and vulnerable . while the Crime and Policing Bill include a provision to make it easy for the police to seize vehicle associate with antisocial behaviour , Avon and Somerset police have little or no resource to police rural crime properly . what step be the Secretary of State take to stop the illegal use of off - road bike on farmland ? as well as strengthen the law , we be work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on a strong rural crime strategy . I can tell the hon . Lady that Avon and Somerset police will be get 70 additional neighbourhood police officer across the area this year as a result of the neighbourhood policing guarantee . violence against Shop Workers : Rural Areas what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against shop worker in rural area . under the previous Government , shop theft be allow to reach epidemic proportion . there be a 70 % increase in the last two year of the previous Government . we be work hard to tackle this epidemic in every area of our country , include rural area . through our Crime and Policing Bill , we be introduce a new stand - alone offence of assault against a retail worker . we will not tolerate worker face abuse and violence simply for do their job , whether that be in town or in rural area . convenience store be at the heart of our community and provide employment for over 700 people in shop in North West Leicestershire , but worker often face abuse . when I visit one of my local shop recently , I be tell that just a few day early the assistant manager have be punch in the face when he be just do his job . although the assault have be report , the police have yet to pay a visit . will the Minister share her plan to support rural policing in constituency such as mine , so that we can tackle violence against shop worker ? may I express my concern about the attack on my hon . friend ' s constituent ? it be totally unacceptable . under the retail crime action plan , the police make operational commitment to prioritise attendance where violence have be use . some progress have be make , but much more need to be do . I will ensure that every police force understand how seriously the Government take this offence . the additional 35 police officer and 21 police community support officer who will be in place as a result of our neighbourhood policing guarantee might go some way to help with that . I recently visit the Huntingdon branch of Barclays bank in my rural constituency , where staff highlight to I that although the Crime and Policing Bill will make assault a shop worker an offence , branch staff in bank and building society be not include in that classification , despite the fact that they work on the high street and be subject to the same threat and intimidation as shop worker . there be over 10 , 000 instance of abuse in branch last year . what rationale can the Minister provide for exclude branch staff in bank and build society from the protection give to retail staff , who work next to they ? a case have be make over several year for why retail worker should be cover by this specific offence . work be do with the Co - op , the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and many other to get the evidence together . if there be evidence from the financial sector and from bank , I want to see it , so I ask the hon . gentleman to talk to the people with whom he be have conversation about this . I be very open to look at this , but at the moment , we have draw up the offence on the basis of the evidence available to we . Gaza : UK Nationals Visa Scheme what assessment she have make of the potential merit of create a visa scheme for people in Gaza relate to UK national . I know that we be all desperately concerned about the intolerable humanitarian situation in Gaza . the UK , along with France , Germany and many other , continue to call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostage and more aid into Gaza . there be a range of route available for those wish to join family member in the UK , and we be work with the israeli , palestinian and other authority in the region to help british national and other eligible people to leave Gaza via safe route . the situation in Gaza be beyond devastating . More than 54 , 000 life have be lose . hospital be be bomb , people be be torture and starvation be be use as a weapon of war . Palestinians in the UK be rightly scared that they may not see their mother , father , brother or sister survive these atrocity . the Government rightly respond to the war in Ukraine by offer a family visa scheme , so that Ukrainians could travel here to join their family . be it not time for a similar scheme — a Gaza family scheme that offer the same solidarity and respect for life ? the statement that we recently issue with France and Germany , call for Israel to immediately restart a rapid and unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid to Gaza , be vital . we still need to see so much more action be take . any decision to implement a bespoke visa scheme would need to consider a range of factor , include the unique crisis situation and the relevant impact on security , compliance and return . as I have say , immediate family member be able to join those in the UK use one of the exist family route . my constituent in Taunton have a proud record of support refugee ; they would support refugee from Gaza , as they do those from other country . but charity that support refugee come to I with concern about the asylum accommodation be allocate to the town . will the Minister meet I to discuss the concern about the late allocation , on which I be not consult , and about which I receive no notification ? I will be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . Fraud what recent assessment she have make of trend in the incidence of fraud . what step she be take to help tackle fraud . what step her Department be take to help protect consumer against fraud . we monitor fraud trend very closely . Fraud be a grow transnational threat that require urgent action . that be why the Government be develop a new fraud strategy , which cover well collaboration with industry , improve public awareness and improve collaboration with international partner . the figure be , of course , come down , but the incidence of fraud — much of it online — be now back up to a new high . many factor be involve , but will the Government look at take further step , include require enhanced intelligence sharing between platform and bank , and well mandatory user identification on site such as date app and online marketplace ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman take these matter seriously , but I gently remind the House that under the last government , Lord Agnew , then Minister with responsibility for counter fraud , literally resign at the Dispatch Box . among other thing , he accuse the Treasury of have " little interest " in the consequence of fraud for our society . it be precisely because of the important point that the right hon . Gentleman raise that a national fraud squad of some 400 new specialist investigator be be recruit . that will be lead by the National Crime Agency ' s national economic crime centre , work closely with the City of London police . we will do all we can to protect the public from fraud . a study last year show that more than two in five people over 50 have be scamme in the last five year , lose an average of £ 2 , 000 in each scam . in half of those case , the money be never recover — and that be just at the small end of the scale . even in the past two week , as a result of development in artificial intelligence , there have be exponential improvement to scam , which be more convincing and realistic than ever before . what be the Home Office do to protect people , especially the more vulnerable , by inform they about AI scam ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise concern ; the number that she reference be deeply concern . combat fraud and beating scammer require raise public awareness , and I be grateful for the work that she have do on this . I can tell she that the Home Office be work closely with the banking , telecom , digital and tech sector to improve system and share datum fast with law enforcement . over 60 stakeholder from across industry be involve in the development of our new fraud strategy . public communication , target support for the most vulnerable and AI be key part of our strategy . the Government have outline a clear ambition to make the UK a global hub for the crypto industry , to support our growth mission . many of our constituent be already regularly engage with crypto . what assessment have the Minister make of the crypto sector , and particularly of the step require to protect consumer and investor while ensure that we allow the industry to develop ? stability and security remain key to ensure the health and growth of the UK economy ; protect investor and consumer be central to that . we be continually evolve our capability , include by work closely with industry partner to ensure that security be front and centre of the UK ' s framework for the crypto sector . Facebook Marketplace be responsible for three quarter of the fraud on social medium , yet it seem uninterested in do anything about that . will the Minister assure the House that he will take Facebook to task , in order to clamp down on that fraud and make sure that consumer be protect ? the Online Safety Act 2023 will require tech company to take measure to prevent fraudulent content on their platform or face significant fine . under the Act , the large firm will be require to do all they can to prevent fraudulent advertising from appear on their platform . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . we be already take significant step to make sure that violence against woman and girl be treat as the national emergency that it be . that include launch our domestic abuse protection order , and invest almost £ 20 million this year in specialist service for victim and in project to help prevent VAWG and improve our response to it . later this year , we will publish our cross - Government VAWG strategy , which will set out our long - term plan to tackle the crisis . for some family of victim , further review of release decision can provide some solace , but it can not do so for my constituent Doreen Soulsby . her daughter ' s murderer be release before the Victims and Courts Bill pass through this place . will the Minister meet Doreen and I to discuss clause 61 of the Bill and the release of life prisoner ? yes , of course . as my hon . friend know , I have have a strong bond with Doreen for many year . of course I would be delighted to meet he and she . research undertake by Women for Refugee Women have find that ban work for woman seek asylum lead many woman , sadly , to stay in unwanted and abusive relationship . will the Minister consider lift the ban on asylum seeker work , and will she specifically include woman seek asylum in the Government ' s upcoming strategy to tackle violence against woman and girl ? it be well beyond my remit as safeguard Minister to make asylum policy , but I can absolutely guarantee the hon . Lady that migrant woman and their experience will be part of the violence against woman and girl strategy ; this issue have receive some of the money from the recent uplift in victim service . work together with by - and - for service across the country , we will always take account of the experience of all woman and girl in our country . I call shadow Minister Katie Lam . on 28 April , the Minister be clear with this House that the framework for local grooming gang inquiry and Baroness Casey ' s audit would both be publish in May . it be now June . presumably there be a new timeline for publish they , so will the Minister share it with we , please ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and I apologise for the month ' s wait . I wait 14 year for anyone to do anything . Baroness Casey have request a short extension to her work from the Home Secretary , and the Home Secretary have inform the Home Affairs Committee of this . we expect the report very shortly , and when we have it , the Government will respond to it , and will lay out their plan with all the evidence in hand . Knife Crime what step her Department be take to help tackle knife crime . we have take action to ban zombie knife , and the ban on ninja sword will come in this August . we be also bring forward Ronan ' s law , which put strong restriction on online sale , through the Crime and Policing Bill . there will also be additional funding , through the hotspot action fund , for high - visibility patrol in the area with the most knife crime and antisocial behaviour . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer , and for the seriousness with which this Government be tackle the scourge of knife crime in constituency like mine . in Redditch , the anti - knife - crime campaigner Pete Martin be make a real difference by educate young people in school about the danger of knife crime . will the Secretary of State consider visit Redditch to see Pete ' s work at first hand , and the real difference that it be make in our school ? can I pass on my thank , through my hon . friend , to the team who be do such good work in his community ? we be certainly keen to know more about that , because he be right about local work prevent young people from be draw into knife crime . that be why we be set up the Young Futures prevention programme , and we be introduce a new law on child criminal exploitation to go after the gang who draw young people into crime . as Sussex police consider how to tackle knife crime in Eastbourne and invest in community police , I have be urge they to prioritise investment in their Grove Road premise in the town centre , as oppose to their Hammonds Drive industrial estate premise . do the Secretary of State agree that we should prioritise investment in town centre such in Eastbourne , so that we can well tackle knife crime there ? obviously , police force have to make their own operational decision , but we do believe that town centre need to be a particular focus of neighbourhood policing , and when it come to prevent youth crime , include knife crime . sussex police be get 64 additional neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer under the neighbourhood policing guarantee this year , but we be also focus on hotspot policing , target the area with the high knife crime . Illegal Working what step her Department be take to tackle illegal working . clamp down on illegal working be a crucial element of our strategy to tackle immigration crime . since come to office , this Government have increase raid , arrest and civil penalty to their high level in year . our Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will introduce tough provision in this area , particularly to bolster our enforcement action against illegal working in the gig economy . good employer in my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South — those who conduct employment check and employ people on decent term and condition — be be undercut by unscrupulous firm that use exploitative practice and prey on the vulnerability of people seek a well life here in the UK . what step be be take to protect people from exploitation and employer who do the right thing ? enforcement of the law be the good way to deal with this issue , which be why there have be a 40 % increase in visit to check whether illegal working be go on , and a 42 % increase in arrest since this government come to office . I call the Father of the House . could I be counterintuitive for a moment and make a New Labour point ? the cause of a lot of illegal migration be the fact that it be easy to work here illegally than anywhere else in Europe , and that be because we do not have national identity card . the Gordon Brown Government , quite wisely , be go to bring they in , and the coalition Government wrongly stop that idea . why should we not have national consensus now on bring in national identity card , give that we all carry mobile phone ? it would dramatically reduce illegal working . I be reel at the New Labour point that the Father of the House have make . E - visas basically give we the capacity to do a similar thing , and they be easily check , which be why , in the border security Bill , we be extend those check to the gig and zero - hour economy . around our asylum hotel on Blackpool seafront , we see increase illegal working in our takeaway , bar and restaurant . will the Minister outline to my constituent how this government be tackle that illegal working , to ensure that we have safe space for people in the job in our vital tourism industry ? we be tackle illegal working by significantly increase enforcement . that be why we have have a 40 % increase in visit and a 42 % increase in the number of arrest for illegal working . there be fine of £ 60 , 000 per illegal worker discover , and those who be discover work illegally can be arrest and put on the route to deportation . surely the good way to tackle illegal working be to make more legal opportunity . the " island of stranger " immigration policy will cause huge issue for the workforce in Scotland ; the care service say that it could threaten the whole sector . asylum seeker wait for their case to be process be in effect an unused resource . why not shorten the time that asylum seeker have to wait before be allow to work , to bring some relief to such sector ? we be shorten the time that it take to process asylum claim by get the system that we inherit from the Conservatives work again . that be why there have be a 63 % increase in the number of initial claim process . that follow a 70 % fall in the period before the last election . rape Gangs : Statutory Inquiry if she will establish a national statutory inquiry into rape gang . child sexual exploitation and abuse be the most horrific crime , and the Government be take decisive action to ensure that victim and survivor of groom gang get the justice that they deserve . we be deliver on the key recommendation of the seven - year independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , include the recommendation on mandatory reporting ; we have ask all police force in England and Wales to review historical case in which no further action be take , and to reopen investigation ; and we have commission Baroness Louise Casey to conduct a national audit of the nature and scale of groom gang and this offending in this country . we will leave no stone unturned in the pursuit of truth and justice . senior figure in the Catholic Church and the Church of England be find to have conspire to cover up child abuse by priest . senior figure in the Labour party be now oppose local inquiry in place such as Bradford , London and Wales , and Ministers here oppose a national rape inquiry . we have also hear from a former Labour Member of Parliament , Simon Danczuk , that he be tell not to raise the issue of the ethnicity of some of the perpetrator . when will Labour put aside its electoral interest and stand on the side of the abused ? the idea that I or the Prime Minister have ever put anything other than the interest of the victim of groom gang at the heart of everything that we have ever work for be , frankly , for the bird . we have increase the number of arrest of the perpetrator that the right hon . Gentleman talk about . we will continue to pursue these violent , abusive , vicious abuser through the court — through justice — and I will continue to take my counsel not from he but from the victim in this country . Qualifying Period for Settlement whether her proposal to increase the standard qualifying period for settlement to 10 year would apply retrospectively . settlement in the UK be a prerequisite for become a british citizen , and it be also an important step in integrate and contribute to local community and the country . the White Paper propose an expansion of the point - base system to increase the standard qualifying period for settlement to 10 year . individual will have the opportunity to reduce the qualifying period base on their contribution to the UK economy and society . we will consult on the earn settlement scheme later this year ; after that we will provide detail of how the scheme will work , include in respect of any transitional arrangement for those already in the UK . Kamala move to the UK in 2021 as a skilled worker in my Oxfordshire constituency . they work to discover novel drug for disease with no current treatment . they be an additional rate taxpayer and have make many professional and personal tie here . the sudden increase to the qualifying period from five to 10 year have plunge hard - work people like Kamala into uncertainty about their future . will the Minister meet I to understand the impact of the policy not just on worker like Kamala but on the Government ' s wide science and research objective ? the change be indeed important . we recognise how important they be to people and will listen to what people tell we in the consultation . after that we will provide detail of how the scheme will work , include in respect of any transitional arrangement for those already in the UK . my constituent Emily ask I to raise this issue in the House only yesterday , so I be take the first opportunity to do so . Emily be a carer and have care for a number of people across the Harlow community . will the consultation on the earn settlement scheme take into account the hugely important role that carer , sometimes from overseas , do to support the most vulnerable in our community ? indeed , carer , include those who have come from overseas , do important work to support we , our family and our community . my hon . friend will recognise that , as I have say , it be important for we to ensure that people ' s voice can be hear in the consultation . we recognise that settlement be an important step in integrate and contribute to local community and family . under the current system , people primarily qualify for settlement on the basis of their length of time in the UK , but we also believe that people should be contribute to the economy and society before they gain settle status in our country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . another group for whom the immigration White Paper be create uncertainty be refugee family . family reunion be a vital route by which refugee can safely reach the UK , free from the grasp of criminal trafficking gang . the Government should be look for more way to facilitate refugee family reunion , not hinder it . it be unclear how the White Paper ' s reform on english language requirement will apply to refugee family reunion . will the Minister acknowledge the need of this unique and vulnerable group ? be she able to provide clarity on the level of english language proficiency that people who apply for refugee family reunion will be expect to have once the reform be implement ? I thank the hon . member for her question . she will know that in the immigration White Paper we have reference that we will be look at reform of the family rule , and we will be consult on that . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . may I first pay tribute to the first responder , the police , ambulance , fire service and other who deal with the horrific incident at the Liverpool parade , some of whom I meet last week ? I know that the thought of the whole House will be with those who be injure and affect . the House will also have see the disgraceful and unacceptable small boat crossing on Saturday . no one should be make those journey , and criminal gang be likely to have make million of pound this weekend alone . the gang be increasingly operate a model where boat be launch from far along the coast , and people climb in from the water , exploit french rule that have stop their police take any action in the sea . that be completely unacceptable . the previous Government raise the issue with France for year , but to no avail , and I have raise it with the french Government since the summer . the french Minister of the Interior , and the French Cabinet , have now agree that their rule need to change . a french maritime review be look at what new operational tactic they will use , and we be urge France to complete the review and implement the change as swiftly as possible . this weekend I have again be in touch with the french Minister of the Interior , who support strong action , and further discussion be under way this week . I will update the House in due course . on Friday in my constituency I meet the leader of Hillingdon council , which host 3 , 000 asylum seeker in Home Office accommodation — the most per capita of any local authority in the country . he tell I that the council face a £ 5 million per annum funding shortfall , which be more that its entire budget for library and culture on support asylum seeker . what plan do the Home Secretary have to ensure that local authority be reimburse in full for the role they play in support asylum seeker in this country ? the hon . member raise an important point , and we do inherit an unacceptable asylum backlog , include huge and unacceptable bill for asylum accommodation . we have already bring the bill for asylum accommodation down , save hundred of million of pound , with hundred of million of pound more to be save over the course of this year . that be a result of the action we be take to clear the backlog that the previous Government leave we with , and as part of that we be work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government on how to co - ordinate support for local council . Crawley be home to the Tinsley House and Brook House immigration removal centre , and their associate scandal . what consideration be be give to the Home Affairs Committee ' s inquiry into immigration detention , include end the use of such centre for indefinite detention ? immigration centre be not use for indefinite detention . we can only keep anyone in detention in an immigration centre if there be a reasonable prospect of their removal . if there be not , they have to be release . I call shadow Home Secretary , Chris Philp . I join the Home Secretary in pay tribute to the people and emergency service in Liverpool . on the Home Secretary ' s watch , this year so far have be the bad in history for illegal immigrant cross the channel . the Government ' s laughable claim to " smash the gang " lie in tatter — they be not smash gang ; they be smash record . the right hon . Lady mention the French . the french prevention rate on land be lamentably under 40 % , and even those who be stop be then release to attempt a crossing again the next day . although she talk about action at sea , nothing have happen whatsoever . at the weekend we see picture of the french police just stand there take photograph while illegal immigrant depart . do the Home Secretary agree that the recent 12 - year fishing deal should be suspend until the French agree to stop those small boat at sea and prevent illegal immigration ? let I remind the shadow Home Secretary that when he be Immigration Minister he say : " I will continue to push my french counterpart to look hard at interception at sea . " five year of conservative government later , the french Government have not agree to any change at all . this Government have reach a new agreement with France , and we be now press for that to be operationalise as swiftly as possible . but we will not take lesson from a former Immigration Minister who , on his watch , let legal migration treble and small boat crossing soar more than tenfold . immigration be at a record level on the Home Secretary ' s watch , but as usual she do not answer the question or take responsibility . let I try this instead : it emerge yesterday that the Attorney General , Lord Hermer , choose not to refer for a long sentence under the unduly lenient sentencing scheme — as the Attorney General can — a man who have be give just 28 month for rape , yet Lucy Connolly get more prison time for a tasteless tweet . why do Lord Hermer think rape be less serious than Twitter comment ? this be two - tier justice in action . do this not show that Lord Hermer have appal judgment and the Prime Minister should fire he ? the question come from a former police Minister under whose Government charge rate for rape and domestic abuse plummet , while charge rate for crime drop substantially . this government support much strong action on violence against woman and girl because we recognise the serious damage that those crime do . shamefully , the previous Government leave we with a shocking legacy on crime , on immigration and across the board , but this Government be turn that around . at the Home Affairs Committee , we have hear worrying evidence about unaccompanied child arrive in this country and be place in wholly unsuitable accommodation , include stay in room with adult male , which present safeguard risk . clearly , there be issue about the age assessment process at the border and the responsibility of the contractor who organise the accommodation . will the Minister tell the House what step the Government be take to ensure child in this country be safe ? when people arrive and claim to be child , there be test at the border to check whether we think they be child . if they be accept as child , they be put into local authority care , so they should not be in asylum accommodation at all . if they be see to be adult and end up in asylum accommodation , they can always make an appeal to the local authority that they be in and undergo what be know as a Merton age assessment test , which will decide on their age once and for all . on Saturday , 1 , 200 illegal migrant pour into the United Kingdom by small boat . many give spurious reason to stay here , so when will the Government repeal the Human Rights Act 1998 for immigration case and take back control of our border ? to tackle illegal migration , we must work across border in co - operation with other jurisdiction . be we to leave the european convention on human right , we could not work with those that sign up to it . on Saturday , resident in Westerhope tell I how nuisance vehicle , illegal and modified e - bike , off - road bike and speed car be make their life an absolute misery , and I have have similar complaint from resident in Slatyford and Newbiggin . the chief constable of Northumbria tell I that his force have already triple the number of vehicle impound over the past few year , so it be keen to enforce the law , such as they be . will the Minister set out how her new proposal will make life well for resident in Newcastle ? I welcome what my hon . friend have say ; this be a problem up and down the land . at the moment , police force be do their good , but the Crime and Policing Bill will allow they to seize vehicle that be be use in an antisocial way , without have to give any warning , and then to destroy they . that be the way forward , but I pay tribute to the work that be already ongoing with police force . since take office almost a year ago , the Home Secretary have spectacularly fail to put a cap on illegal immigration or a deterrent in place , and this weekend ' s record number of boat crossing demonstrate that she have clearly completely fail to take control of our border . what can she say in all honesty to my constituent about her plan , because clearly it be not work ? give that the right hon . Member be a member of the previous Government , her question might be rather more plausible if she apologise for the 100 - fold increase in small boat crossing under her Government ' s watch and for the quadrupling of net migration as a result of the policy that she support in government . if she want to support strong action against illegal migration and the gang that be organise it , why will she not support the counter - terrorism power that this Government be put in place to go after they ? in the light of the ban on disposable vape , which come into force this week , will the Minister outline the measure be take to step up the work at port , include at East Midlands airport , to prevent counterfeit and ban vape from be import into the country ? while Border Force do not routinely disclose information of a port - specific nature , in the calendar year of 2024 it seize approximately 300 , 000 e - cigarette and vape at the UK border . Border Force have a robust approach to seizure , base on intelligence receive from its partner . I know that my hon . friend have raise this issue previously , and I be very happy to meet with she to discuss it . in my constituency , we have see the park police slash from Bushy Park and rate of theft and knife crime soar . the Metropolitan Police Commissioner warn last week that the Home Secretary will not meet her laudable target on neighbourhood policing , tackle knife crime and tackle violence against woman and girl without additional investment . can she reassure my constituent that they will see the bobby on the beat that she have promise , or will they see only the Chancellor ' s iron fist ? I can tell the hon . Lady that more than 400 additional neighbourhood police officer will be on the street in London this year as a result of our neighbourhood policing guarantee . there be increase concern in my constituency that a number of Deliveroo rider be subcontract to unregistered rider , some of whom be work illegally . will the Minister say what be be do to crack down and ensure that all Deliveroo rider be register and be not here work illegally ? there be an amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill that extend the requirement to check illegal working to the gig economy , the zero - hour economy and all those area that have non - traditional employer - employee relationship . I look forward to be able to operationalise that when the Bill become law . regard non - crime hate incident and the amount of police time take to investigate they , do the Minister agree that the clue be in the name ? they be " non - crime " . do she also agree that already stretch police should focus their effort on tackle real crime , rather than be the virtue - signal thought police ? the Home Secretary have be very clear about the priority that police force should actually focus on . as agree with the Home Secretary , the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing be conduct a review of non - crime hate incident . we will update Parliament in due course on the finding of that review and any change that may be require to the code of practice introduce by the shadow Home Secretary in March 2023 . Doncaster East ' s neighbourhood police team recently seize multiple steal offroad bike use tactic include drone and high - visibility patrol . its swift action have make a real difference in tackle antisocial behaviour in place such as Hatfield and Dunscroft . I commend the team on its work and the public support it have receive through its " where ' s the bike " campaign . in the light of that , I ask the Minister about the progress around the neighbourhood policing guarantee and when Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme can see name police officer in their town — order . I welcome the work that South Yorkshire police have be do and the Doncaster East neighbourhood police team go after the offroad bike , which cause havoc and be a total nightmare in the community . they be get additional neighbourhood police as part of the neighbourhood policing guarantee , and we will give they strong power to keep the street safe . leicestershire police have sign a report £ 800 , 000 contract with Palantir — a company that have a worrying history of racial profiling and surveillance concern in the USA . it have since remove all the contract detail from the public record , and the Home Office hold no central record of such a deal . what reassurance can the Home Secretary give that the people of Leicester be protect from intrusive and discriminatory policing practice ? how can transparency and oversight be uphold in such partnership where no central record be keep ? I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman might write to I with the detail of what he have outline . if so , I will look at they . I thank the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister for visit my constituency last week after the horrific incident follow the Liverpool football club victory parade . will the Home Secretary join I in congratulate the emergency service on act so swiftly , but also in condemn the Reform UK party and the far right for try to stoke up hatred ? can she explain how her Department will tackle this misinformation to prevent further action in future ? I join my hon . friend in say a huge thank you to all the first responder — those who I meet last week , but also many more who be involve in a very swift response that undoubtedly save life that day . it be a day of huge joy across the city of Liverpool that end in a horrific incident , but I know from her constituency and across Liverpool that it be a city where community come together in the face of the great difficulty and show their strength as a community . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . can I draw the Home Secretary ' s attention to the amendment I have table to the Crime and Policing Bill , which would extend the definition of exploitation in the Modern Slavery Act to include orphanage trafficking ? it be a horrific crime that affect about 5 million child across the world , and it be something we need to recognise in our legislation . the Chair of the Select Committee raise a very important point . I know that she have a strong interest in this issue that go back many year , and have take strong action herself on modern slavery . we will look at the amendment she have table , and be happy to discuss it with she far . last week , my whole community be shock and appal to hear about the stabbing of a 15 - year - old boy in Cribbs Causeway . thankfully , he be stable , and I know we will all be think of he and his family at this time . three 16 - year - old boy have be charge . could the Minister please set out what step the Government be take to tackle knife crime , include among young people who could have much bright future ? I convey all thought to the family of the victim in this awful stabbing case , and all of those affect across the community . my hon . friend be right to raise the deep concern that exist about the number of young people get draw into serious violence — we be see this across the board . that be why the Young Futures prevention programme be so important , and why we need to work to prevent this by strengthen the law on child criminal exploitation . as I speak , there be a removal van outside the illegal immigrant hotel in my constituency — let we hope they be move they out , not move more in . can the Secretary of State assure my constituent that these illegal immigrant be not be disperse in the community , be house in house in multiple occupation own by private landlord , and will she advise I on where they will be house ? anyone who be in a hotel be someone who have claim asylum , and whose asylum claim be pende . they be not necessarily illegal immigrant at all , and the hon . Lady should make that position clear . last year , Dr Mohammed Mohsen be offer a position in the acute medicine department at Royal Cornwall hospital in my constituency . he be due to start that role last year , but due to the ongoing conflict and travel restriction in Gaza , he have be unable to travel to the UK . would the Minister meet I to consider his case , as he require urgent assistance ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , and I be very happy to meet she . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be work to ensure that those who need to leave Gaza , and be able and eligible to do so , be support in that . I be very happy to look at this matter with my hon . friend . the Home Secretary be ask a question about Lord Hermer of Chagos , as he perhaps ought to be know . why do she not answer it , and will she do so now ? Lord Hermer do not decide sentencing — he have a particular role as the Attorney General . the right hon . Gentleman , as a very experienced Member of this House , will know the way in which the system work . for the final question , I call Harpreet Uppal . at a recent roundtable on violence against woman and girl host by the Mayor of West Yorkshire , we hear from local organisation that do outstanding work but be hamper by short - term funding , as well as from a brave survivor who share her experience . they specifically ask for the Government to commit to strategic investment . will the Minister review contract with the sector so they be multi - year and take a long - term view of service delivery and preventive work ? my hon . friend make an important point that short - term funding massively hamper the sector . the vast majority of violence against woman and girl funding come from local authority and , in fact , other Departments , but I will absolutely commit to look at how the Home Office manage its contract to ensure sustainability . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to the next piece of business , I will make a brief statement . this morning , the Government publish the strategic defence review . the Prime Minister make a speech and hold a press conference in Glasgow , in addition to other medium appearance . that follow several day of medium briefing . I be disappointed that , once again , the Government appear to have breach the principle set out in paragraph 9 . 1 of the " Ministerial Code " that " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " I recognise that the timing of policy announcement be not always wholly within the Government ' s control . there may be a need to co - ordinate announcement on international trade with trading partner , for example , or announcement may be delay by last - minute legal intervention . the announcement of the SDR , however , be wholly at the Government ' s discretion , so it be highly regrettable that minister have choose , once again , to hold a major medium event before come to the House . that show complete disregard for the House and for hon . member . I note that Ministers , when they be in opposition , be not slow to complain when previous government make major policy announcement outside Parliament . in fact , the SDR be due at Easter , so I be sure that a day would not have matter . I be not responsible for compliance with the ministerial code , which be a matter for the Prime Minister — it be the Government ' s code , not the House ' s code — but I regard this as a particularly blatant breach . I have invite the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) to consider whether the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee might usefully inquire into the matter . minister be elect as member of Parliament first , before they get their ministerial role , so they should recognise the importance of the House . it be amazing that , in opposition , member think that everything should be discuss on the Floor of the House , but when they be in government , their memory be short on that point . I have be here through many sdr . in fact , in one of the major sdr with Lord Robertson , we do not even know the effect on everybody ' s constituency until it be read out from that Dispatch Box . what have change ? I will tell you what have change : the disregard for member who sit on the Back Benches . I be here to defend those on the Back Benches , so please , I hope we have no more of this . all I would say be that it be the Government ' s ministerial code . they should be ashamed of not enforce it . government Announcements we now come to the urgent question . I call the shadow Leader of the House . ( urgent question ) : to ask the Leader of the House if she will make a statement on government announcement outside the House of Commons . I hear your statement , Mr Speaker . I respond to an urgent question on a similar matter on 14 May . I reiterate the commitment I give then . the " Ministerial Code " be clear : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " that be an important principle that the Government stand by and uphold . since that last urgent question on 14 May , the Government have make a number of important oral statement to the House , on the infected blood inquiry , on the cross - Government review of sanction implementation and enforcement , on the charging of individual under the National Security Act 2023 , and on the legal aid cyber - security incident . the Prime Minister have update the House on the three trade deal that we have strike in the national interest , the Foreign Secretary have update it on Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , the Justice Secretary have respond to the sentencing review , and the Defence Secretary have make a statement on the future of the Diego Garcia military base . this afternoon , the full conclusion of the important strategic defence review will be publish and lay before this House first , with a significant statement from the Defence Secretary to follow . I be satisfied that this Government be come to the House regularly to keep Parliament inform . [ interruption . ] order . I be not satisfied , and I think that be the key . back Benchers on both side should rightly hear it first . I do not care how many announcement have be make in the House ; it be those that have not be make here that we should be talk about . as I have say , the Defence Secretary will make a statement this afternoon , and I be satisfied . I recognise that there be time when we make a judgment on when an oral statement be need , balance that with the rest of the day ' s business and other factor , but in nearly all instance a write statement be also make , and that be an appropriate mechanism for update the House . as well as make 153 oral statement during the current Session , we have make 673 write statement . as I say before the recess , the ministerial code make it clear that when Parliament be in session , announcement should be make to the House . let I gently point out that we have only just return from the recess — as of an hour ago — and before the recess we be at pain to ensure that the House be update on the subject of the Diego Garcia military base before it adjourn . the Government and I take our obligation to Parliament very seriously , Mr Speaker , and I will continue to work with you and colleague throughout the Government to make certain that important announcement be make to the House , and that member from across the House have ample time to consider issue and ensure that the Government be scrutinise effectively . I call the shadow Leader of the House . be that really the good that the Leader of the House can do — an " I speak your weight " autocue recitation of point that she have make in her three previous attempt to deal with occasion when the House have be embarrassed and disregard over the last three week alone ? it be a hopeless miscue of a response that border on a contempt of Parliament itself — yet another attempt to change the subject , blame other and distract attention from the late fiasco . evidently the defence of the realm be not important enough to merit make its way up the list of priority in the Government ' s medium handout . Lord Robertson himself , as you have say , Mr Speaker — and I be amazed that you have to intervene on the Leader of the House during her own remark — would be ashamed and embarrassed to think that this be be do in his name . just three week ago , the Leader of the House have to be drag to the House over the Government ' s briefing on the immigration White Paper outside the House . that come just day after they have do the same in respect of prisoner recall , the UK - US trade deal and , of course , the Chagos island . that follow instance involve tuition fee , plan reform and even the fiscal rule , on which you , Mr Speaker , have to reprove and chastise the Chancellor of the Exchequer . now we have see the unhappy sight of the Secretary of State for Defence , no less , extensively brief the medium on the decision to deploy airborne nuclear weapon and build the next generation of submarine , before come to the House . perhaps , as I have say , they be not important enough to merit a mention beforehand . journalist have be able to read the strategic defence review since 10 . 30 be , while the opposition be prevent from see the document until five minute ago , precisely in order to avoid parliamentary scrutiny . all this be manifestly in breach of the ministerial code , the nolan principle and , of course , Labour ' s own manifesto , demonstrate the Government ' s arrogance and complacency and their disdain for the House and for democratic accountability , and this from — the clue be in the title — the Leader of the House , whose job be to protect and safeguard the House and its Members . unfortunately , her obvious floundering just now make the point far well than I can . when do the Leader of the House know about these announcement , and what step do she take to prevent the media briefing and ensure that the announcement be make to the House of Commons first ? will she now apologise for yet another high - handed Government decision for which she alone be fully responsible , in this instance , to the House ? it be nice to see the right hon . gentleman in his place and respect Parliament today — that be not always the case . as I have say before , I believe strongly that the Government should be and have be make the most important announcement to the House when Parliament be in session . we have make more oral statement than the previous Government do in their entire last session — we have make 154 statement in 140 sitting day , compare with their 72 in 101 sitting day — and we have make many write statement and answer parliamentary question . we have the statement on Diego Garcia on the day that the deal be sign , despite difficulty with the timing . we have a statement on the US economic deal on the day that it be sign , and the Prime Minister update the House after the EU trade deal . as I have say , the SDR have now be give to the opposition and be be lay before the House . there will be time for colleague to scrutinise it and to question the Defence Secretary on it this afternoon . the Government response to the sentencing review and to the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report on the woman ' s state pension age , as well as many other major announcement , such as the upgrade in defence spending , be all make to the House first . I be curious to know whether the shadow Leader of the House raise these important issue with the previous government when he be a Minister or a Back Bencher , because I remember many , many occasion when they disrespect this House , and I do not remember hear his voice at the time . I remember when the Procedure Committee , I and many other want the then Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , to be accountable to the House of Commons . the previous Government do nothing about it , and I do not remember the right hon . Gentleman say anything about that . I recall the then Culture Secretary announce the end of the BBC licence fee and , separately , the privatisation of Channel 4 on Twitter , with no intention of come to the House to explain those major policy change . the previous Prime Minister , on the first day of a very long recess , announce that he be scrap the Government ' s net zero target — he do not come to the House to explain that . he also announce the scrapping of High Speed 2 during a conference recess and never come to the House to account for it . during covid , one of the Conservatives ' many Prime Ministers announce major change to our way of life to the medium and not to Parliament , such as the 2020 winter lockdown — he do not come here to talk about that — and the covid vaccine roll - out . when he close the border and then reopen they , he announce it to the medium and not to Parliament . let we not forget that the Supreme Court find that Parliament be illegally prorogue by the previous Government . do you remember when the former Prime Minister be find to have mislead Parliament ? there be no great disrespect to Parliament . rather than uphold the ministerial code , the previous Government ignore breach of it time and again , with report sit on the Prime Minister ' s desk and nothing be do about they . we , by contrast , have strengthen the ministerial code . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) laugh from a sedentary position , but we have give the independent adviser on the ministerial code the power to instigate his own investigation . therefore , we have strengthen it . not only do the previous Government disrespect Parliament ; they do not have enough for Parliament to do . they have a threadbare king ' s Speech , with ban pedicab the pinnacle of their ambition in their last year in government . now that they be in opposition , they seem to be carry on the same and hardly turn up for work . they could have use any one of their opposition day to raise these issue , but they do not . they have many other parliamentary device at their disposal , and they do not use they . they be a zombie Government , and now they be a zombie opposition . the next time they bring forward an urgent question , they might want to check their own record before give we lecture . order . may I thank the Leader of the House for remind I of the mistake of the previous Government in not come to the Floor of the House ? I would have hope that this Government have learn from the mistake that have just be highlight . to try to defend what you criticise be not a way forward . I be try to ensure that member on both side of the House be allow to question Ministers first , rather than watch announcement on Sky News . it be interesting that the SDR have be offer to journalist but that the Members here have not have the chance to see it . I agree with the Leader of the House , and I thank she again for remind I , but let we now see the Government treat this House in the way that I expect . will you take a point of order now , Mr Speaker ? no , I will not , because we have to wait till the end , as you well know , Sir Roger , as one of the most senior member . I think my right hon . friend the Leader of the House be right to remind we of the many breach of this rule by her Majesty ' s Government when the conservative party be in power . however , in the middle of this mud - sling , let I raise a still small voice of calm . the current Prime Minister pledge to be more transparent , open and proper in government . will my right hon . friend go back to the Cabinet and remind it that proper scrutiny in this House first , with untrammelled question for an hour or more at a time , be more scrutiny than the Government would get in a press conference and be the proper place to do this ? I hope she will take that message back , so that statement such as the one we be about to hear be give on the Floor of the House first . I thank my hon . friend for that question . as she will know from the many time I have say it before , I do regularly remind the Cabinet that this be an important aspect of be a Cabinet Minister , or indeed a Minister . we be do our very good to make sure that there be regular oral statement to this House on important matter and that they be bring here first . in the absence of an oral statement , there be a write ministerial statement , of which notice be give the day before so that colleague have ample time , as she say , to properly scrutinise all these announcement . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be incredibly disappointing to find ourselves here to discuss this issue yet again , but this time on the vital matter of national security and defence . there be a remarkably similar urgent question before recess , and it be disappointing then , as it be now , to hear the Leader of the House attempt to justify not bring major announcement to the Floor of the House first by cite the number of statement the Government have already give to Parliament . the ministerial code be clear : the Government do not get to pick and choose which significant statement they do or do not make to the House ; whenever possible , they should be do it every single time . while I agree with the premise of the question from the shadow Leader of the House , I must say that it be a bit rich give the Conservatives ' appal record of do exactly the same thing when they be in government . however , that do not let the current Government off the hook . will the Leader of the House please confirm that the Government will comply with the ministerial code , or shall we expect to do this little dance every week ? surely this time would be well spend make a statement to the House . I thank the hon . member for that . I will make no apology for the fact that we be do lot of thing — we be make lot of announcement , and we be deliver the change the country vote for — and that do bring with it compete demand . as I say , when the House be in session , statement and update will be make to this House first . sometimes that will be via a write ministerial statement and sometimes it will be by an oral statement — it depend . we also have to balance statement with the rest of the day ' s business . I would point out to colleague that we have an important second reading debate today , with dozen and dozen of member down to speak . we be now have two urgent question before a very important statement and then other business as well . we do have to balance these thing in the House ' s interest , but the statement be be make to the House today . the Defence Secretary will shortly be in his place , and I be sure he will spend a long time answer question on it . I be sure that criticism be not aim at I for grant two uqs . the reason I have grant two UQS be that the Government do not come here first with the strategic defence review . if they have , we would not be have the UQs and there would be no pressure on time . trust , integrity and transparency must be the watchword of our politic , but those principle be wear extremely thin under the previous Government . what step be the Leader of the House take to redouble our commitment to trust and integrity , because our constituent expect no less ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I do find it slightly strange that conservative Members seem to think that they be somehow now the upholder of parliamentary democracy and standard in Parliament . I be afraid that some of we have much long memory . we be take step to raise standard , behaviour and the culture in this House , and indeed to make sure that the House be respect . I call the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I think the word the Leader of the House be look for be " sorry " . there be much in this place which , as we know , be complicated and arcane , but the ministerial code be crystal clear on this point . the job of the Leader of the House be to represent this place and Back Benchers of all party around the Cabinet table to make sure that this place hear thing of such vital importance first . as important as public transport be , may I suggest that the defence of the realm be a little more important than the Government ' s bus Bill , which will have no division this evening ? will the Leader of the House please tell we why she think no . 10 be get this so wrong and what she be do to try to put it right ? I be certainly sorry if member of the medium have be give sight of the SDR ahead of member of this House . my understanding be that it be be publish for the first time in this House today . as I say early , we have put on a statement ; that be always our intention . we be always go to have a major statement today on the SDR and that be indeed what we have do . even though there be other important business today , mps from across the House will have ample opportunity — I be sure they will take that opportunity — to scrutinise the Defence Secretary not only today but on future occasion via Select Committees and elsewhere . I declare an interest , as a member of the Modernisation Committee . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for stand up for we Back Benchers and for grant so many urgent question — I say that as someone who speak in most of they on behalf of the people of Harlow . do the Leader of the House agree that part of the Government ' s remit be to modernise and to bring back trust in politic ? will she outline what she have be do to that end and the work that the Committee have be do to make this place more accessible ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he do on the Modernisation Committee . he will know that one of the remit we have set out for the Committee be to ensure more time for Back Benchers to scrutinise Government business . that be a key part of modernise Parliament , and it will ensure that this Chamber be , and will be in the future , the real crucible of national debate that we want it to be . I be sure we will see that today and on other day . know the Leader of the House to be a decent person , I suspect that behind the scene , when event of this sort happen , she probably argue quite strongly that announcement should be make to this House first and to the press afterwards . do she think the reason that be not happen be that the Government genuinely think they will get less publicity to hold a press conference after there have be scrutiny in the House , or be it that they just have no confidence that they can stop their people leak thing in advance ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word at the beginning of his question . he be absolutely right that part of my job , which I take incredibly seriously , be to uphold this House in Government , and to ensure that the rest of the Government respect this House , come to this House to be scrutinise , and be open , transparent and available to this House . it be a message that I relay very regularly and I be sure I will relay it again later today . I say gently to he that government announcement do happen outside of Parliament sit , and that have long be the case . manage announcement over the course of a few day can often be a challenge , but I reassure he that on the strategic defence review , we be always go to make the statement to the House today , with the publishing and the laying of the 150 - page document to the House first . I reiterate that there be a balance to be strike . People want time to read and digest before they can question the Defence Secretary . that be always a balance , too . it be not just the House as a whole ; the Defence Committee also be not give advance sight of the report . committee member be leave texte journalist over the weekend to find out what be go on . at the beginning of this Parliament , the Defence Secretary commit to the Defence Committee that he would be more open and more transparent , and reset the relationship with the Committee . do the Leader of the House think that the Secretary of State be live up to his commitment to be more transparent , after what have happen today ? my understanding be that we offer to brief the Chair of the Defence Committee , but I will stand correct if that be not the case . I hear what the hon . Member say , and I think that across Government , Ministers , civil servant and everybody else must take their responsibility to select Committees incredibly seriously . Select Committees be a very important part of accountability to this House . I know that the Secretary of State for Defence — someone I speak to regularly — take his responsibility to the House incredibly seriously , and I be sure he will look forward to come before the Committee to be question and scrutinise at length about the SDR and many other matter . may I say to the right hon . Lady , whom I have know for a little while , that normally when a Speaker upbraid the Leader of the House , the first response of the Leader of the House be to grovel and apologise ? that be standard , because she have to take it for the party that she represent in government . I simply suggest that I be a little surprised that she do not make peace in that way with Mr Speaker . notwithstanding that , I say gently to the Leader of the House that it be not just a case of not have bring the review to the House . we know now that journalist be give scrutiny of it . when I be leader of the Conservative party , I remember that Tony Blair , as Prime Minister , offer I advance sight of document that be a bit delicate or needed security clearance . the Leader of the opposition be give the opportunity to look at such document so that they be fully inform of development . be such an opportunity offer to the Leader of the Opposition or the leader of the Liberal party ? I do apologise to Mr Speaker regularly , I have to say — usually in private , but I be happy to extend that apology to he today if he have not hear I apologise . I have the utmost respect for Mr Speaker , who I work very closely with , and I totally respect his job in uphold back Benchers ' right to question and scrutinise Ministers and Government policy . that be what he be there to do , and he do it brilliantly . I do not know what Privy Council briefing be offer to whom , but I can inquire for the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , and I will make sure that he get a reply . on 30 January , the Leader of the House say , " we will publish the child poverty strategy in the spring . " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 442 . ] the Guardian break the story on 23 May that the child poverty strategy will not be publish in the spring . I can not find a write statement or any indication of an oral statement regard the delay . can the Leader of the House let we know whether the announcement will be make and whether the child poverty strategy will be publish in the spring — it be now June , so probably not — or whether it be likely to be publish in the autumn , just so the House know ? I know this be a matter of great concern to the hon . Lady , and something that she raise often in this House . I will ensure that she and the House be update on the timing for the child poverty taskforce , and that Ministers come to this House regularly to update on its progress . as we have this knockabout , what trouble I be that the House have a very important job to do . we be talk about the expansion of nuclear weapon — we assume , because we have not actually read the review , even though journalist , and member of the public through the newspaper , have be give briefing on this — and we want to analyse the review so that we could ask sensible question . we will be in here for this urgent question , for the next urgent question and for the statement . when do the right hon . Lady expect the House to get a chance to digest this 130 - page report before we ask question follow the statement ? everybody else in the country seem to have be able to do so . I be on the Opposition Benches for many year — many more year than the right hon . Gentleman have be — and I recognise that it be a challenge to properly scrutinise big review that be lay before the House not long before a statement be make . it be the same with Budgets . I will ensure that today be not the only opportunity , but the first of many , to question the Government about their strategic defence review , which will last for many year to come . I know the Secretary of State will also want to ensure that as further question emerge today , next week and in month to come , member of this House have ample opportunity to put those question to he . integrated care board have their budget cut by 50 % via a phone call from the interim head of NHS England to ICB leader , and that announcement be only make formal in response to a write question that I put to the Secretary of State . half of NHS target be cut without a statement in the Chamber , and although there be a statement in the Chamber on the abolition of NHS England , it have be carry on at pace without so much as a White Paper , a Bill or any opportunity for effective parliamentary scrutiny . will the Leader of the House give we an opportunity to look at and scrutinise this fundamental reorganisation of the NHS , which be so far go under the radar ? issue relate to decision about icb and NHS reorganisation be regularly raise with I at business question . the hon . Lady be right to say that there be a statement in the House on NHS England , and I can reveal to she — this will probably not be a surprise — that get rid of NHS England will require primary legislation . there will be ample time to consider those issue through the passage of that legislation , but I hear what she say . it be not just by give statement to the medium that this government disrespect the House . just before we go into recess , we have a farcical situation where the shadow Secretary of State for Education have to bring forward an urgent question ask for a write statement to be make early in the day . the Government very clearly decide to make a write statement later in the day , and send a Minister to come here , not answer hon . member for the whole urgent question and refuse to say what the content of the write statement be — a statement that the Government have already write and intend to publish later that day . that be do simply to avoid scrutiny . what representation do the Leader of the House make on that day to ensure that information be give to the House in a timely fashion so that it could be scrutinise , rather than the Government hide away ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue ; I think she be talk about the pay review recommendation and the Government ' s response . they be issue that I take incredibly seriously , as be ensure that this House have ample time for consideration , so I go back and look at the usual practice regard pay review settlement . the settlement go across a range of Government Departments and a number of sector — not just school and education , but the NHS , Ministry of Justice , Cabinet Office and a number of other Departments . it be usual practice — it be under her government as well — that such settlement be announce by write ministerial statement simultaneously in order that they be all put out at the same time . I be sure the Sunday paper would like to thank the Government for advance sight of their upcoming statement . I be a member of the Defence Committee and I ask the Leader of the House to acknowledge that this urgent question be actually waste all our time . Mr Speaker be quite right in grant it , but if procedure have be follow and we know about the statement , we could have get on and debate the rest of the day ' s business . do the Leader of the House agree that there be few announcement to be make in this Parliament that be as important as our defence strategy ? if we be not do a statement today , I would agree with the hon . member , but we be do a statement on the strategic defence review . the review be 150 page long and will be lay before the House in time for the statement , as be usual practice . there be trail of the statement ahead of time — during recess , on the Sunday — but the full document and conclusion will be lay before this House , as I have say . I be sorry that member of the medium be give advance sight of it — as I understand , it be in a closed reading room — but publication of the report will be to this House this afternoon . to read about our nuclear defence strategy over the weekend , ahead of the SDR , be quite alarming — just as it be to see this morning that journalist have receive all the information and the opposition still have not have sight of it . the Leader of the House be say that she be speak to no . 10 and Cabinet member about the importance of this matter , but do she raise concern over the weekend when she see the leak in the paper ? some aspect of the SDR be trail ahead of time , but not the one to which the hon . Gentleman refer ; that be not something that the Government be design to put into the public domain over the weekend . that be normal practice these day . I know we all like to speak about a time when we just do thing when the House be sit , but thing be sometimes give to the medium ahead of time , although not the nuclear issue that the hon . Gentleman be talk about . we will have a far urgent question on that , and we will have the full strategic defence review statement shortly , at which he can ask the Secretary of State for Defence a question . the Leader of the House have just tell we that the document be " trail " to journalist , but at 10 . 41 this morning the Daily Telegraph publish a long article in which its author clearly set out that they have read the entire document . at the same time , the shadow Secretary of State for Defence be refuse an advance copy of it , even under Privy Counsellor rule . why do the Government appear to trust journalist with national security , but not the shadow Secretary of State ? as I have say in previous answer , I be sorry that member of the medium be give a reading room space to look at the SDR before it be lay before the House . that should not have be the case . other people have ask I about Privy Council briefing ; I know which one I have offer , and I understand that they be offer to member of the Opposition , but I will get member the full detail of who be offer Privy Council briefing and who be not . I fully respect the role of the Leader of the House in this place , but I be shocked , although in a way not surprised , by what have happen . the Government Benches be very quiet today , which be unusual on such occasion , so I think Labour Members must feel the same way we do . I would like to ask the Leader of the House two question , and perhaps offer she a way to dig herself out of what be an increasingly big hole . first , will she offer a full apology to you , Mr Speaker , and to member of this House ? secondly , will she seek reassurance from the Prime Minister that this simply will not happen again ? I think I have make all those thing clear . we be do a statement today on the SDR ; we be always do a statement today on the SDR . we be lay the report before the House , as be the tradition . that be the convention , and it be the right thing to do . the Secretary of State for Defence will shortly be here , and I be sure that he will be here for a long time answer all the question that people have . I do not need to ask he this , but I will ensure that he regularly come to this House to update it on aspect of the SDR and how it be roll out . it be a document for a long period of time , not just for today . it be very helpful that in the last few minute the Leader of the House have confirm that the medium be brief directly , before the House , on the content of the review . I be grateful to she for be so honest , but I do not think that it be enough for she to promise not to do it again . will she order an inquiry in Government about how the decision come to be make and who authorise the briefing of journalist ? whoever it be need to apologise directly . I think I be respond to suggestion that they be brief , and to some article and so on that be read out . as I say , these matter should be come to the House first ; that be why we be have the statement today , shortly . it be always our intention to do the full statement today and to lay and publish the full report in this House first . I regret it if member of the medium be give advance sight of it before member of this House . the people of Eastbourne deserve to have Government announcement scrutinise on their behalf by their MP in this Chamber before release to the medium . to compensate for the Government ' s shortcoming on this front , will the Government commit to announce statement in this House first ? will the Minister also commit to invite local journalist from the Eastbourne Herald , Eastbourne News , Eastbourne Reporter and Bourne Free to Government press conference of particular interest to Eastbourne , so that they can hold the Government doubly to account on our town ' s behalf ? it be vital that mps , whether they be from Eastbourne or from elsewhere , be able to question and scrutinise Ministers on major Government announcement . that be exactly what we seek to do ; although this session be not even yet a year long , we have already give almost double the number of oral statement that the previous Government give in their last year in office . I be also very conscious that where announcement have a particular interest for a part of the country , we should make sure that local mp be tell about they in advance . give the essential lead - in time require for organise and protect the Prime Minister ' s visit to Glasgow , where he speak extensively about these issue , be it not clear to the House that the Government make a deliberate decision to pre - empt the statement to the House and show contempt for the process of the House ? I be sorry , but I do not accept that . there be a big announcement today . we be make a statement to the House this afternoon . as I say early , the House be in recess until nearly two hour ago . we be lay the document before the House and be not in any way try to shirk scrutiny , question or anything — we be incredibly proud of this document , which be the first SDR in a long time . it will set out the future of our defence sector for many year to come . we be really proud of it and proud to lay it before the House this afternoon . my constituent will wonder about a Government who promise to do thing differently . they say that they would be transparent and be white than white — then they behave like this . one almost feel sorry for the Leader of the House , because she be try to defend the indefensible . it be not enough to express regret that journalist be give access to the document in full before Privy Counsellors , the Leader of the Opposition or the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , or that this trail in full go on day ahead . what we need be action . far to the question put by my hon . friend the Member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , will the Leader of the House commit to look into the issue , whether through a formal inquiry or not ? secondly , will she meet one to one with the Prime Minister to express her clear opinion that what have happen be not acceptable ? I would like specific answer to both those question . to reiterate — the Minister for the Armed Forces be sit next to I — member from the Conservative and liberal Democrat party be offer briefing this morning . [ interruption . ] that be what I understand . these question can be put later . I be also hear for the first time that read room be make available for member of the press during previous sdr as well . we do take our responsibility to the House incredibly seriously . we be come forward with more statement than the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government do . we be raise standard in the House when it come to mps ' behaviour and the code of conduct for member . he and I have talk about this before : his Government try to change the rule when one of their mp be find to have flout they . his Prime Minister be find to have be in contempt of Parliament by prorogue it and — one of the most serious offence that a member can commit — to have mislead Parliament . we be turn the page on that era ; the right hon . Gentleman might not agree with I , but we be . we do our very good to uphold and respect the House whenever we can . the Leader of the House will be aware of my complaint , at time , when matter pertinent to Northern Ireland be announce in the medium . Strangford business contact I for detail that it be my role as an MP to provide — it be the role of all of we — yet I be unable to provide they , as the medium seem to know more than the House . I acknowledge that sometimes embargo report be upload too quickly , but there be clearly more at play . this be a political venue , but we must never play politic with the rule of the House , which solidify our role as the mother of all Parliaments and the home of democracy rather than a propaganda wing . how will the Leader of the House assure Members that their position will be consider rather than let the timing of the news cycle take precedence ? the hon . Gentleman be one of the most formidable constituency mp in the House , never miss an oral statement or opportunity to raise matter on behalf of his constituent . I applaud he for that . I want to ensure , as I try to do , that he and every other Member have ample opportunity to do that , whatever the issue of the day be ; that statement be bring ; and that we have time for Government business and all the other important business of the day . I continue to look forward to work with he to ensure that we do that . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your advice on the following , as I seek to set the record straight . at the weekend I become aware of an email send to a group of journalist from the Ministry of Defence , which state : " we will have a reading room open for you from 1030 to Horse Guards " on Monday . " you will have the opportunity to read through the full embargoed SDR publication " . after see that , I email the Secretary of State ' s office on Sunday afternoon and ask whether , give that journalist would see the publication at 10 . 30 , we could be send a copy at 9 am . they refuse . they tell we we would get a copy of the statement — that is , the oral statement to the House — in the usual way . I then repeatedly ask the Minister for the Armed Forces , who be present in the Chamber , if we could get a copy of the SDR . he refuse . I have now be tell something else , which be that representative of industry be allow to see the SDR at 10 . 30 . this be a multibillion - pound industry that be highly market - sensitive . Mr Speaker , can I ask your advice on this point ? as I understand it , the Vote Office have multiple physical hard copy of the strategic defence review , which I have not read at all , my colleague have not read and no other parliamentary colleague have read . it be give to I only as I come into the Chamber , so obviously I have not be able to read it . journalist have have five hour . it be unacceptable . can I ask if the Vote Office could , exceptionally , be ask to release it now ? I be go to come to that , but there be a couple more point . I be very disappointed . if the industry have see this strategic defence review when member of this House and member of the Defence Committee have not see it , something have go fundamentally wrong here . I really believe we need the answer . it be up to the Leader of the House , and I do not want to press she , but it might be worth she go away and get some answer and come back to the House . the fact that journalist , as well as defence people who have skin in the game , have be allow to see it before MPs make I very concerned . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . you may have notice that I briefly exit the Chamber to see whether copy of the SDR be available in the Vote Office , and I be tell , quite rightly , that no , they would be make available immediately after the Secretary of State have make his statement . if we be to have the press conference the day after statement — not the day before , or on the same day — everybody would have time to read the report , we would have an initial stab at it , with very little sight of it on the day , and then we could go into it in more detail subsequently , as we usually do . I be sure that that be a good point of clarification on the way forward . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I have just see the headline in the Telegraph that drop at just after 10 o ' clock this morning which say , " I ' ve read the Defence Review " . this journalist must have be fully brief and hand a copy of it , long before anybody else . surely that be an abuse . I call Helen Maguire . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I wonder if the Minister want to correct the record because , yes , I be offer a private briefing this morning , but it be absolutely clarified that I would not receive the SDR until the Minister stand up . I receive it 40 minute ago . I call Simon Hoare . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . give the seriousness of the issue — the defence of the realm be the first duty of Government , as we know — be there any merit in you , sir , consider suspend the House to allow those who be to be call to speak on behalf of their respective party at least the courtesy that have clearly be extend to industry leader and journalist ? I believe that there be a precedent for that . I call Stuart Anderson . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . be there any way we can have a list of the commercial company who have have sight of the review ahead of anybody else , because commercially sensitive decision might be make that impact the defence industry and give people a market advantage ? you make the point that I be hint at before . I be very concerned that people who have skin in the game may be able to take advantage of what be in the report . I hope that no trading have be do on the back of it , because that would be a real concern . I find it quite appalling that member still do not have the report . the Leader of the House could , if she wish , suggest that we allow the report , so that member have the chance to read it . it be totally out of order that we know the report be sit there and could have be make available , but nobody have be give the chance to read it . rather than my suspend the House — time be tight — people could go and collect a copy of the report now , and could be read it before the next urgent question . do the Leader of the House agree ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . my understanding — I will check with the Defence Secretary — be that these thing be normally publish when the Secretary of State sit down ; it be a bit like the Budget . I understand that the Opposition Front Benchers have a copy of the report now . the Defence Secretary be here ; I do not know whether he be happy for it to be publish early . I be offer a briefing this morning , but I have already read it all in the Times ; the only thing I be not offer be a copy of the strategic defence review . business and the medium have see it . who else might come out of the woodwork who have see it ? it be only right that member of this House should now have an opportunity to see it , so that their question can be inform by what be in the review . Secretary of State , be you happy to ensure that ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . we have follow — [ interruption . ] you want an answer from I , Mr Speaker , and I will certainly give you this : we have follow the procedure from the last defence review , when the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , be a Defence Minister . I be the shadow Defence Secretary at that time . we have no advance copy of the defence review . we be not offer a briefing , which I have offer he and the other Front Benchers . I be really concerned to ensure that the House have proper access to the report , but we have be follow convention . you be quite right , Mr Speaker , that copy of the defence review be in the Vote Office , as be establish procedure . they would normally be make available when I sit down after my statement . in these circumstance , follow your encouragement , I suggest that member of this House be give access to they in advance of my statement . [ Official Report , 23 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 903 . ] ( Correction ) I thank the Secretary of State for that , and I be sure that member will receive their copy as we speak . UK Nuclear Deterrent ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the future of the UK ' s nuclear deterrent . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Chair of the Defence Committee for this chance to set out the Government ' s total commitment to the UK ' s nuclear deterrent , which have be the bedrock of our national security for nearly 70 year . my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary will shortly outline the detail of the strategic defence review to the House , and that review will be underpin by our nuclear deterrent , which be part of our blueprint for a new hybrid Navy , in which next - generation dreadnought nuclear - armed submarine , and up to 12 SSN - AUKUS conventionally armed nuclear - power submarine , will serve alongside good - in - class warship , support ship and new cutting - edge autonomous vessel , build on the £ 15 billion investment set out for the UK ' s sovereign nuclear warhead programme in this Parliament . this be not only a manifesto promise deliver ; it be our most important military capability secure for generation to come . this investment will also deliver a defence dividend of highly skilled , well - pay job across the country . our nuclear warhead programme alone will create and sustain over 9 , 000 job , along with thousand more in supply chain . to ensure that the demand of our nuclear programme can be meet , we be work closely with industry partner , and be aim to double defence and civil nuclear apprenticeship and graduate intake . that will mean 30 , 000 apprentice over the next 10 year ; they will be part of this historic renewal of our nuclear deterrent and our community across the country . the first duty of every Government be to keep their people safe . in a more dangerous world , peace and security be well achieve through deterrence and preparedness . as the son of a Royal Navy submariner , I thank our outstanding submariner who patrol 24 / 7 to keep we and our ally safe . we know that threat be increase , and we must act decisively to face down russian aggression in particular . our nuclear deterrent be the ultimate guarantor of our security . the Defence Secretary will momentarily make a statement give further detail , but our proposal be possible only because of the Government ' s historic decision to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of our gdp by 2027 — the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . the Government have the will , the plan and the mean to secure the nuclear deterrent for generation to come . we be make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I thank the Minister for his response , and your good self , Mr Speaker , for kindly grant the urgent question . follow the report in the Sunday Times that the Ministry of Defence be look to purchase american fighter jet that be capable of deploy tactical nuclear weapon , it be essential that the House get clarity on the Government ' s nuclear deterrent policy — an issue of critical national importance . how have the medium get hold of such sensitive information on future nuclear deterrent plan , and what step be the Government take to investigate the leak ? if the Government be pursue an air - launch tactical nuclear capability , that be a huge deal . it would represent a significant shift in the UK ' s nuclear posture . indeed , it would be the UK ' s most significant defence expansion since the cold war . this raise serious concern about our sovereignty when it come to nuclear weapon , about strategic coherence with our current doctrine , and about the principle of continuous at - sea deterrence . despite the defence nuclear enterprise account for around 20 % of the defence budget , it remain largely outside meaningful parliamentary scrutiny , include by our Defence Committee . this must change , so will my hon . friend the Minister explain how Parliament will be enable to scrutinise change to the UK ' s nuclear programme ? have discussion take place with the US , and what role would it play in this capability ? will the Minister confirm that the UK will retain full operational control over any nuclear weapon ? give that tactical nuclear weapon low the threshold for nuclear weapon use , what assessment have be make of the risk of escalation ? will the Minister confirm that only the Prime Minister would have authority to use they , and only in extreme self - defence ? finally , have there be consultation with NATO ally on this potential shift ? decision of this magnitude must be transparent . the future of our nuclear deterrent must be base on clarity , credibility and , above all , british control . I do not want to eat the Secretary of State ' s sandwich , and I be acutely aware that the statement that he be about to make — Don ' t worry : the Sunday Times do it for we . the Secretary of State will shortly lay out more detail of the strategic defence review , but I be happy to answer a few of the question from my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee . Parliament have the opportunity to scrutinise the outcome of Lord Robertson ' s strategic defence review via the House of Commons Defence Committee . I know that my hon . friend will have the reviewer in front of his Committee shortly and will be able to ask they difficult question . I be aware that there be proposal for how we scrutinise more sensitive and classified issue , and conversation between the House and the Government on that continue . we of course continue to have conversation with the United States — our most important security partner — and with our NATO ally , but my hon . friend will understand that I will not be able to detail the precise nature of those conversation to the House at this stage . I reassure he that we retain full operational control of our independent continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent — the backbone of our national security . as I mention , it be the first duty of any Government to keep our country safe . the nuclear deterrent be the ultimate guarantor of our national security and our safety . I can confirm that only the Prime Minister have the power to launch nuclear action . I call the shadow Secretary of State , James Cartlidge . I be grateful to the Chair of the Defence Committee for secure this important urgent question . follow comment in the press last month from Sir Simon Case , former head of the civil service , that the UK should consider air - launch nuclear capability , I write in the Express on 25 May that our nuclear deterrent need to be make even more resilient , include the continuous at - sea deterrent , but also " potentially , by diversify our method for deliver nuclear strike . " I believe that it would be right to diversify our method of deliver nuclear strike , because we have to recognise the threat pose by Russia in particular , and it have the ability to operate nuclear weapon at tactical and theatre level . to deter effectively , we must be able do the same . we support in principle move to widen our nuclear capability , on the assumption that we do so work closely with our NATO ally . however , I gently suggest to the Government that they may need our support to carry that decision . I remind the Minister that eight of his Front - Bench colleague vote against the renewal of our nuclear deterrent in 2016 , include the Deputy Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , the Secretaries of State for Scotland and Wales , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , and other . if the Minister be hope that he could rely on the Liberal Democrats , let I say that not only do all but one of their mps vote against Trident renewal in 2016 , but as a condition of support the coalition Government , they shamefully demand that we delay the renewal of our nuclear submarine , leave we to rely on old boat for far long . that lead to long maintenance period , and above all , directly contribute to the punishingly long tour of duty for our CASD naval crew . have have the privilege of serve as the Minister responsible for nuclear , and have chair the Defence Nuclear Board , I understand why the Minister need to choose his word carefully , but can he at least recognise that 204 day for a patrol be far too long , and that in addition to any plan to diversify the deterrent launch method , we must ensure that our strategic CASD enterprise have an effective and productive industrial base , deliver fast maintenance time ? finally , will he confirm what the estimate cost will be of deliver an air - launch option , and say by when he would expect that to be in service ? let I again put on record my thank to all member of our Royal Navy who go out on patrol , not just on our Vanguard - class submarine , but also on our Astute - class boat — and the previous t - class boat — that defend our deterrent while at sea . they guarantee our security by ensure that there be a continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent every day , and have do so for over 70 year . every Labour Member be elect on a manifesto commitment to a triple lock for our nuclear submarine : first , we will continue to support the continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent ; secondly , we will build four Dreadnought - class nuclear submarine at Barrow , which we be commit to deliver ; and thirdly , we will maintain and provide all the upgrade that be require for the continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent . that include the renewal of our sovereign warhead , which the Defence Secretary will get to when he make his statement on the strategic defence review later today . I be determined that we will guarantee our national security , and we will work across Government to do so . I congratulate the Chair of the Defence Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , on secure this important urgent question . he and the Minister refer to the need for full scrutiny by the House of such sensitive matter — something that have be pursue for over a year , under the previous Government and this one . can the Minister provide any reassurance that that be finally progress , after some delay when there be a change of Government ? yes , I can . the Defence Secretary be open to those conversation , though there may still be a difference of opinion about the good way of scrutinise some of our most sensitive matter . I encourage my hon . friend to continue her conversation with he . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we face a once - in - a - generation set of threat , include an imperialist Putin and a completely unreliable President Trump , who we can not depend on to support our defence . our nuclear deterrent remain the good and ultimate guarantor of the UK ' s security . we must ensure that it meet the scale of those challenge , so it be right that the Government should look at way to guarantee its effectiveness . deliver the dreadnought class on time be crucial to that , and I welcome the update that the Secretary of State provide before the recess on those timescale . look ahead , it be important that the House understand the purpose of any future addition to our nuclear deterrent , so will the Minister outline what discussion his Department have have on how further addition to the deterrent would positively bolster the UK ' s security ? the United States remain the UK ' s most important security partner : no two nation on earth be as integrate in their defence , intelligence and communication system as the United States and the United Kingdom . that be a position that this Government intend to continue , because it be in our national interest to ensure we remain strongly connect with our partner in the United States . I be open to conversation about how we bolster our deterrence . indeed , I believe the Defence Secretary may have more to add on that matter in his statement on the strategic defence review . I support the increase in defence spending and I recognise the reason behind it , but will the Minister indicate what impact it may have on the non - proliferation treaty ? this Government be proud to be increase defence spending , with an additional £ 5 billion in our budget this year and an extra £ 13 billion by 2027 , compare with the situation we inherit in cash term at the last general election . it be right that we invest not only in our nuclear deterrence capability but in other . as a nation that abide by the rule of law , we will continue to do so in all matter , include those relate to nuclear proliferation . the review have identify a gap in our capability to have tactical nuclear weapon in place , and that gap will have be note elsewhere , among our adversary . will the Minister assure the House that the gap that have now be identify in british military power be be fill by other NATO ally until we be able to fill it ourselves ? this Government have a " NATO first " defence policy , so it be vital that we support and be enable by our ally , especially those in NATO , and we will continue to do that . the strategic defence review may set out word in that regard . I do not want to get ahead of the Defence Secretary ' s statement , so I will not give the full detail here . there be a consensus in this place about the importance of an independent nuclear deterrent to keep we safe , but there be far less understanding about the need and use of tactical nuclear weapon . do the Minister agree that we need to foster a much well understanding of how the logic of deterrence work , and how it can be and be be undermine by country like Russia ? only then can we explain why our nuclear deterrence need to change to remain effective in protect we . a fundamental part of the conversation about the strategic defence review that Lord Robertson and the review team have be have since the Labour Government come to power be how we reinforce the concept of deterrence , and why the concept of deterrence be so important to our security . our armed force — some of the good in the world — have capability that should deter any aggression , and we will be far enhance that through the measure set out in the strategic defence review , as the Defence Secretary will announce shortly . we want to deter aggression but , if necessary , we need to have the capability to defeat it , and that be what the strategic defence review , which will be announce shortly , will detail to the House . as it be this issue that bring I into politic many decade ago , it be an absolute pleasure to hear the full - throate commitment of both the Government and the Liberal Democrats to the strategic nuclear deterrent . if the future of the american commitment to NATO be not in doubt , we would not need to think about tactical nuclear weapon ourselves , because that role have always be fulfil by US tactical nuclear weapon allocate to the defence of NATO . will the Minister assure the House that we have sufficient confidence in the willingness of the United States , despite the present Administration ' s attitude to NATO , that the co - operation that we need for the future of our strategic nuclear deterrent be not in doubt ? I can indeed . the defence partnership we have with the United States , particularly on nuclear deterrence , be a strong one . we know that President Trump and the US Defence Secretary , Pete Hegseth , have reaffirm their support for article 5 of the NATO treaty . as we build towards the NATO summit in the Hague , the UK will set out not only how we plan far to enhance our deterrence , but how we plan to ensure that collectively , across the NATO alliance , we be more lethal and more able to deter . the reason why that additional deterrence be necessary be the increase threat that we face as a nation , both conventional and cyber - threat , and increase nuclear threat . the UK be one of five nuclear country that be member of the non - proliferation treaty . will my hon . Friend tell the House what step his Government be take to reduce the number of nuclear deterrent that our country carry , which be one of our obligation under the treaty ? as part of our commitment to non - proliferation , we continue to abide by all the measure of the treaty we have sign . our renewal of our nuclear deterrent be necessary in a more dangerous world . as the ultimate guarantor of our security , it will be central to this Government ' s defence plan in the future . in pursuit of deterrence , will the Minister recommit to first use when either the strategic or tactical situation demand it ? if I read out our nuclear playbook at the Dispatch Box , the right hon . Gentleman would be one of the first people to raise concern , so I decline that polite invitation to detail our nuclear strategy . that ambiguity be absolutely certain , but we do not have a first - strike policy , as he will know . as the only european NATO member to dedicate our nuclear deterrent in the defence of all NATO member state , we maintain that capacity not only in support of the United Kingdom . that be an important part of our collective deterrence . far from the claim by successive british government that Britain have an independent nuclear deterrent , be the reality not that it be entirely dependent on the United States both technically and politically ? instead of spend billion more on nuclear weapon while public service face real budget constraint , should we not honour our commitment under the nuclear non - proliferation treaty by work towards the global elimination of nuclear weapon ? every member on the Government Benches stand on a manifesto in support of the renewal of our nuclear deterrent and in support of a continue at - sea nuclear deterrent , build four Dreadnought - class submarine and provide the upgrade necessary to ensure the effectiveness of that system . that be a manifesto commitment that we can all be proud of , and it be one that this Government will stick to . as the Minister have mention it , as have my predecessor as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , it be now over a year since the Public Accounts Committee produce a report on how sensitive scrutiny could be carry out in this House . this be really important , and it feel as though we be be give the run - around . will the Minister commit to set a date when the Government will give a decision on the matter ? as I reply to my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , conversation continue between member of this House and the Defence Secretary . he be open to further conversation to try to find a way forward , and I be certain that he would welcome a conversation with the hon . Gentleman . the Minister be right to highlight the nuclear deterrent as the cornerstone of our defence capability , but it be also a national effort . will he join I in commend the unsung scientist and engineer at the Atomic Weapons Establishment for their world - lead and highly confidential work that ensure the ongoing independence of the UK ' s nuclear deterrent ? I be very happy to do so . it be not just the scientist and engineer at the AWE who support our nuclear deterrent , but the engineer and apprentice in Devonport in my constituency who refit our nuclear submarine . the entire supply chain , from Rolls - Royce to BAE Systems , Babcock and countless other company and organisation involve in this national endeavour , help to keep our country safe . I commend all of they for their work and their contribution to our national security . when we discuss the nuclear deterrent , we sometimes forget that this be the ultimate weapon of mass destruction , which , if it be ever deploy , would quite literally end civilisation as we know it . the Minister might not agree , but do he accept that opposition to nuclear weapon be a legitimate , moral position of conscience hold by most people in most nation in the world ? will he and his Government colleague stop try to demean and insult those who simply and legitimately want nothing to do with these evil weapon and want they go from their country and their community ? I recognise that there be a range of view on nuclear weapon . I also recognise that there be thousand and thousand of people in Scotland whose job be dependent on support our nuclear fleet , who do superb work at the basis on the Clyde and support not just the submarine , but our entire nuclear supply chain , through small and medium - sized enterprise and large company in factory , engineering workshop and other business across Scotland . I be certain that , although the hon . Gentleman and I might disagree on nuclear weapon , he be not speak for those people when he make his point . early this year , along with a cross - party delegation of mps on the armed force parliamentary scheme , I visit Faslane . that be a very important visit for I , because the nuclear reactor on the v - boat be make in my constituency , but it be particularly concern to hear about deployment that be now last over 200 day . that be totally unacceptable , so can the Minister tell we what step he be take to reduce the length of those deployment while maintain our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent ? as a government , we be seek to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . in particular , for those submariner who be involve with our nuclear patrol , reduce the length of those patrol be a key part of what we have to do . one aspect that I can tell my hon . friend about in this House be the investment go into our nuclear submarine refit . ensure that we can refit the submarine in time , on schedule and on budget be essential to rotate between the four boat . previous Governments delay renew our nuclear boat ; we be take the decision to support the dreadnought renewal , which will provide the cutting - edge capability necessary for our nuclear deterrent to continue in the future . I commend all those involve in our nuclear enterprise , from engineer to the submariner who serve on our submarine , for keep our country safe . do the Minister agree that any party that aspire to government in this country should be wholeheartedly and unambiguously commit to our independent nuclear deterrent ? I be afraid that that be not always the case when we have a coalition under the Conservatives because of our coalition partner , but I be very pleased that they have repent now . be it not absolutely extraordinary that a party that now present itself as some kind of alternative Government can not even send a single Member of Parliament to sit in this House while we be debate this existential issue for the security of our country ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that any party aspire to government must not just understand how dangerous our world be , how the threat be increase and how our nuclear deterrent be the backbone of our national security , but must also be part of those conversation . I note that member from the party he refer to be absent from today ' s debate . we all want to live in a world in which a nuclear deterrent be not need , but sadly we all recognise that we do not live in that world , and we be far from it than we be a decade ago . do the Minister agree that whether we be discuss the UK ' s nuclear capacity or any other capacity , we must have a NATO - first defence policy and lead within the alliance ? while I be here , can I also congratulate the Veterans Minister on his epic feat up Everest last week ? my hon . friend ' s question give I an opportunity to thank the Veterans Minister and celebrate his work in complete Operation Mountain Goat , the speed climb of Everest . I commend he and all those who do so on their aspiration to raise £ 1 million for veteran ’ charity — that be something I think we can get behind on a cross - party basis . it be absolutely essential that we continue to support our national security . the more that we can do so on a cross - party basis , the more the power of our deterrence be something we can shout loudly and proudly about , especially when it relate to direct increase defence spending towards UK company , create job nationwide and use defence as the engine for growth that it truly be . I be in favour of this new method of delivery , which give we more option and probably make it less likely in the long run that nuclear weapon will be use . however , cost be key , and with 20 % of the defence budget already take up by the defence nuclear enterprise , it be clear that our conventional capability be suffer . can the Minister tell we whether the increase cost of these new warhead will come out of the Ministry of Defence ' s budget , or out of a special Treasury reserve , as have sometimes be the case previously ? the increase in defence spending that we have secure , which the Prime Minister announce in February , provide we with the opportunity not to just renew our conventional capability , but look at how we can far support our nuclear deterrent and build our cyber - capability . take together , that be how we will build that collective responsibility . I do not want to give the hon . Gentleman an incorrect answer , so I will write to he about the point that he raise . I congratulate the Minister on his robust stance on the UK nuclear deterrent , which I welcome . from a Whip ' s perspective , I be interested to know how he plan to bring his parliamentary party on side when so many have vote against the nuclear deterrent and Trident . well , it be a question of two half . I agree with the hon . Lady on the first half , and I be grateful for the cross - party nature of what we can achieve here . it be a source of great pride to all Defence Ministers that our strong support for our nuclear deterrent and our national security be in the labour manifesto , which enjoy incredible support at the last general election . we be not only bring forward a strategic defence review that will update our capability , but bring forward our commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp to April 2027 — three year before anyone think that be possible . it be thank to the brave decision by the Prime Minister that we can renew our capability and increase our deterrent capability as a country . it be a Labour Government lead by Harold Wilson in the 1960 that initiate the nuclear non - proliferation treaty , and it be during the cold war that the number of nuclear warhead be reduce by the five declare nuclear weapon state . this announcement by the Secretary of State , and today ' s talk of increase nuclear warhead , be in breach of the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and be at variance with the global nuclear ban concept of get rid of nuclear weapon . how be the world make safe by the ability to destroy it more time over than exist at present ? where be the strategy for nuclear disarmament ? where be the strategy for peace ? I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman ' s question come from a heartfelt and personal belief in nuclear disarmament . on this side of the House , we support international disarmament obligation to the ultimate goal of a world without nuclear weapon , and the obligation to pursue negotiation in good faith on effective measure relate to nuclear disarmament . I gently say to he , however , and to all hon . member , that we be face increase nuclear threat as a nation not just from established nuclear power , but from the risk of proliferation of nuclear technology , especially as that technology become more mobile , portable and miniaturised . it be precisely for that reason that that feature as part of the strategic defence review that the Defence Secretary will detail far shortly . we be not due to hit 2 . 5 % of gdp for two year , and 3 % be by no mean guarantee . with the continuous at sea deterrent ringfence , spend on conventional force be well under 2 % and in the bottom third of NATO country . introduce an air - launch nuclear weapon into our arsenal be a significant change to our doctrine and might fundamentally change the way that all our force operate . we spend less on defence than other NATO nation with a nuclear deterrent , so when will we achieve parity regard spending on conventional force specifically ? I be normally reasonably impressed by the hon . gentleman on defence matter , but let I say politely that we have £ 5 billion extra in the defence budget this financial year thank to the decision by the Prime Minister and the Chancellor . by 2027 , we will have over £ 13 billion more in cash term compare with the situation that his party leave . when it come to increase defence spending , we be do it three year early . it be worth remind he that the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be under the last Labour Government . it be something that his party never achieve for a single day when it be in power . Most military operation require an element of surprise , and the Government certainly achieve that by deliver the news of the return of tactical nuclear weapon through the medium of the Sunday Times . that marmalade - drop moment aside , what impact will the apparent purchase of F - 35 Lightning fighter from America have on the global combat air programme that we be put together with Italy and Japan — or should I wait for the " you read it here last " strategic defence review ? in the spirit of the day , I suggest that the hon . Gentleman wait for the Defence Secretary ' s statement that be come soon . I be very aware that when people go to a gig , they want the main act , not the warm up , so I look forward to he speak in due course . Strategic Defence Review with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the strategic defence review . I have lay the full 130 - page review before the House , and I be grateful for the opportunity to do so and to make this statement on our first day back from the recess . the world have change , and we must respond . the SDR be our Plan for Change for defence : a plan to meet the threat that we face , a plan to step up on european security and to lead in NATO , a plan that learn the lesson from Ukraine , a plan to seize the defence dividend result from our record increase in defence investment and boost job and growth throughout the United Kingdom , and a plan to put the man and woman of our armed force at the heart of our defence plan , with well pay , well kit and well housing . through the SDR , we will make our armed force strong and the british people safe . I thank those who lead the review , Lord Robertson of Port Ellen , General Barrons and Dr Fiona Hill , " a politician , a soldier and a foreign policy expert " , as they describe themselves in their foreword . they , alongside other , have put in a huge effort . this be a " first of its kind " , externally lead review , the result of a process in which we receive 8 , 000 submission from expert , individual , organisation and member on both side of the House , include the shadow Defence Secretary . I thank they all , and I thank those in the Ministry of Defence who contribute to this SDR . it be not just the Government ' s defence review , but Britain ' s defence review . the Government endorse its vision and accept its 62 recommendation , which will be implement . the threat that we face be now more serious and less predictable than at any time since the end of the cold war . we face war in Europe , grow russian aggression , new nuclear risk , and daily cyber - attack at home . our adversary be work more in alliance with one another , while technology be change the way in which war be fight . we be live in a new era of threat , which demand a new era for UK defence . since the general election we have demonstrate that we be a government dedicate to deliver for defence . we have commit ourselves to the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , with an extra £ 5 billion this year and 2 . 5 % of gdp in 2027 , and the ambition to hit 3 % in the next Parliament . however , there can be no investment without reform , and we be already drive the deep reform of defence in 50 year . those reform will ensure clear responsibility , well delivery , strong budget control and new efficiency worth £ 6 billion in this Parliament , all of which will be reinveste directly in defence . our armed force will always do what be need to keep the nation safe , 24 / 7 , in more than 50 country around the world ; but in a more dangerous world , as the SDR confirm , we must move to warfighting readiness , and warfighte readiness mean strong deterrence . we need strong deterrence to avoid the huge cost , human and economic , that war create , and we prevent war by be strong enough to fight and win they . that be what have make NATO the most successful defence alliance in history over the last 75 year . we will establish a new " hybrid Navy " by build Dreadnought , AUKUS submarine , cut - edge warship and new autonomous vessel . our carrier will carry the first hybrid airwing in Europe . we will develop the next generation Royal Air Force with F - 35s , upgrade Typhoons , sixth - generation Global Combat Air Programme jet and autonomous fighter to defend Britain ' s sky and to be able to strike anywhere in the world , and we will make the british Army 10 time more lethal by combine the future technology of drone , autonomy and artificial intelligence with the heavy metal of tank and artillery . for too long , our Army have be ask to do more with less . we inherit a long - run recruitment crisis , follow 14 year of Tory cut to full - time troop . reverse the decline will take time , but we be act to stem the loss and aim to increase the british Army to at least 76 , 000 full - time soldier in the next Parliament . for the first time in a generation , we have a Government who want the number of regular soldier to rise . this government will protect our island home by commit £ 1 billion in new funding to homeland air and missile defence , create a new cyber - command to defend Britain in the grey zone , and prepare legislation to improve defence readiness . as Ukraine show , a country ' s armed force be only as strong as the industry that stand behind they , so this SDR begin a new partnership with industry , innovator and investor . we will make defence an engine for growth to create job and increase prosperity in every nation and region of the UK . take our nuclear enterprise . we will commit to invest £ 15 billion in the sovereign warhead programme in this Parliament , support over 9 , 000 job . we will establish continuous submarine production through investment in Barrow and Derby that will enable we to produce a submarine every 18 month , allow we to grow our nuclear attack fleet to up to 12 submarine and support more than 20 , 000 job . on munition , we will invest £ 6 billion in this Parliament , include in six new munition factory and in up to 7 , 000 new long - range weapon , support nearly 2 , 000 job . the life of worker in Barrow , Derby and Govan , where the Prime Minister and I be this morning , be be transform not just by this defence investment but by the pride and purpose that come with defence work . in the come year , more community and more working people will benefit from the defence dividend that this SDR bring . Ukraine also tell we that whoever get new technology into the hand of their armed force the fast will have the advantage , so we will place Britain at the leading edge of innovation in NATO . we will double investment in autonomous system in this Parliament , invest more than £ 1 billion to integrate our armed force through a new digital target web , and finance a £ 400 million UK defence innovation organisation . to ensure that Britain gain the maximum benefit from what we invent and produce in this country , we will create a new defence export office in the MOD , drive export to our ally and drive growth at home . the SDR set a new vision and a new framework for defence investment . the work to confirm a new defence investment plan , which will supersede the last Government ' s defence equipment plan , will be complete in the autumn . it will ensure that our frontline force get what they need , when they need it . the plan will be deliverable and affordable , and it will consider infrastructure alongside capability . it will seize the opportunity of advanced tech , and seize the opportunity to grow the british economy . as we lose the national service generation , few family across this country will have a direct connection to the armed force , so we must do more to reconnect the nation with those who defend we . as the SDR recommend , we will increase the number of cadet by 30 % , introduce a voluntary " gap year " scheme for school and college leaver , and develop a new strategic reserve by 2030 . we must also renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . we have already award the big pay increase in over 20 year and an inflation - bust increase this year , and now I have announce that we will invest £ 7 billion of funding during this Parliament for military accommodation , include £ 1 . 5 billion of new money for rapid work to deal with the scandal of military family home . this SDR be the first defence review in a generation for growth and for transformation in UK defence . it will end the 14 year of the hollowing out of our armed force . instead , we will see investment increase , the Navy expand , the Army grow , the Air Force upgrade , warfighte readiness restore , NATO strengthen , the nuclear deterrent guarantee , advanced technology develop , and job create in every nation and region of this country . the strategic defence review will make Britain safe , more secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Secretary of State . before I turn to the substance , in respond to my point of order , the Secretary of State say that when he be in opposition , " we be not offer a briefing " , and " we have no advance copy of the defence review . " — [ interruption . ] order . please ! it have not be a good day so far , and I do not want any more interruption . the Secretary of State say that this occur when I be a Defence Minister . actually , in March 2023 , before I become a Minister , he be invite to a reading room on the morning of publication . on the Defence Command Paper refresh in July 2023 , when I be Minister , he say he do not get a copy . I can confirm , and I be happy to substantiate this , that a hard copy be drop off at his office at 9 . 30 be that morning . I ask for a copy of the SDR repeatedly on Sunday and early this morning , and we be not give one . I have not even read the document , and I be the shadow Secretary of State . I can add that some of the big defence company in this land be give copy at 8 am this morning . they have have hour to read it ; I have not read it at all . this be mean to be a democracy and this mean to be a Parliament . how can we hold the Government to account ? while the Government may have try to hide the document from we for as long as possible today , they can not hide what have happen in plain sight , which be a total unravelling of their strategic defence review because , quite simply , they do not have a plan to fund it . an SDR without the funding be an empty wish list . the ship and submarine it talk of be a fantasy fleet . the reviewer be clear in the Telegraph today that the commitment to 3 % " establish " the affordability of the plan . on Thursday , the Defence Secretary say in an interview with the Times that reach 3 % be a " certainty " , but by the weekend he have completely backtrack to 3 % be just an " ambition " . today , the Prime Minister be unable to give a date by which 3 % would be reach . why ? because the Treasury have not approve a plan to pay for it . the Secretary of State and I have both be Treasury Ministers and Defence Ministers , and he know as well as I do how this work . for the Treasury to approve a plan , it will have to feature billion of pound of cut to exist MOD programme , so this SDR have dodge the big decision on exist capability . can the Secretary of State confirm that the so - call defence investment plan to be publish in the autumn will set out the cut need for the Treasury to agree a plan to get to 3 % ? we should have have those detail in the SDR today . can the Secretary of State also confirm that the total budget for new measure announce in this SDR over the next five year be less than £ 10 billion ? that be less than we will be spend to lease back our own base on Diego Garcia . be it not the hard truth that the Government be unable to guarantee the money our armed force need , but the one plan they can guarantee be to give billion to Mauritius for land we currently own freehold ? and can he finally tell we what percentage of the payment for Chagos will be meet by the MOD ? he have never tell we before . let I suggest an alternative path to the Secretary of State : first , guarantee to hit 3 % and do so in this Parliament , not the next ; secondly , get a grip on our welfare budget , rather than compete with Reform to expand it ; thirdly , save billion by scrap their crazy Chagos plan . that be a plan to back our armed force and make our country strong from the party that actually last spend 3 % , in 1996 . the terrible shame of this SDR unravel be that this be an extraordinary — [ interruption . ] it be a Labour Government who come in , in 1997 ; I do not know what Labour member be laugh about . the terrible shame of this SDR unravel be that this be an extraordinary opportunity to overhaul our armed force in a world of grow threat . only yesterday , we see the Ukrainians once again demonstrate , with their audacious attack on russian nuclear bomber , how profoundly war have change . and yet it be true that some of the good long - range one - way attack drone use in Ukraine have not be build by Ukraine , but by UK defence sme . we be incredibly well place to be a lead nation in the development of uncrewed force , but how many military drone have the Government actually purchase for our own military since the general election ? in a write answer to I , the answer be not 3 , 000 or 300 , but three . they have purchase three reconnaissance drone since the election and not a single one - way attack drone . that be the reality . for the past year , the Treasury have use the SDR to effectively put MOD procurement on hold . that be absolutely shameful when we need to rearm at pace and at scale . at least the Secretary of State for Defence know how the rest of the country feel : totally let down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer . if there be one capability that matter more than any other , it be people . we agree on the critical importance of recruitment and retention , which be why I do so much of the work to buy back the defence estate so we could rebuild it and rebuild the substandard defence accommodation . but the Army be down by 1 , 000 since the election . if the Government really want to address recruitment and retention , would it not be total madness to scrap the legislation protect our Northern Ireland veteran from a new era of ambulance - chasing lawfare ? surely nothing could be more damaging for morale , recruitment and retention than to once again pursue our veteran for the crime of serve this country and keep we safe from terrorism . to conclude , the Secretary of State say he want to send a strong message to Moscow , but the message he be send be profoundly weak : surrender our fishing ground for an EU defence pact that do not offer a penny in return ; surrender the Chagos island , to the delight of China and Iran ; surrender our Army veteran to the lawyer ; and to cap it all and after so much hype , produce a damp squib SDR that be overdue , underfunded and totally underwhelming . our armed force deserve a lot well than this . I see the way the world be change . I see the way the Chancellor be fix the economic foundation after 14 year of failure under the Conservative Government . I have to say to the House that I have no doubt that we will meet our ambition to hit 3 % of spending on defence in the next Parliament . it be something that the Prime Minister this morning reinforce . he say that the SDR can be deliver , because our commitment to 2 . 5 % be build into the term of reference . he say this morning that we be committed to spend what we need to spend to deliver this review . the shadow Secretary of State talk about unfunded promise . he know about unfunded promise . his drone strategy be unfunded . it be 12 page , with more picture than word . his munition strategy be unfunded and even unpublished . his party ' s commitment to 2 . 5 % on defence be never in Government Budgets . it be a gimmick launch four week before they call the election — they dither , we deliver . on Diego Garcia , I say this to the shadow Defence Secretary . this deal be a great investment in the defence and intelligence base that we share with the Americans . it be essential for activity that can not be undertake elsewhere , and that we do not undertake with any other nation . it be a deal worth 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . the US back the deal . NATO back the deal . five eye back the deal . Australia back the deal . India back the deal . so how , on this national security issue , have the opposition get themselves on the wrong side ? as far as the SDR go , this be the defence moment of a generation . with threat increase and defence spending rise , we now have a plan for transformation — a plan that will link the good of advanced technology with the heavy metal of our platform ; a plan that will drive the defence dividend to increase job and business support across the country ; and a plan that put people in defence right at the heart of our defence plan for the future , with increase pay , well housing and well kit to do the job of deter our adversary . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . give the grow instability in Europe and beyond , and the fact that , among other thing , the UK be the third most targeted nation on the planet by cyber - attack , I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s intention to turn the tanker around and increase the focus on defence . however , the strategic defence review be only as effective as the spending review that will follow this month . to ensure that this SDR do not suffer the fate that have befall some of its predecessor , how confident be my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary that his and the Prime Minister ' s ambition will be fully match with a correspondingly ambitious spending review ? my hon . friend rightly raise the scale and nature of the increase cyber - attack that this country face . when I have the privilege of take this job 10 month ago , I be take aback to find that in the last year , defence across the piece have be subject to more than 90 , 000 cyber - attack that could be link directly to other state . that be why in this SDR , we pick up the recommendation to establish a new cyber - command , so that we can build on the pocket of excellence across defence and ensure that we can more effectively defend against and use offensive cyber to deter such attack . on funding , the spending review next week be an important moment for the Government , but the Prime Minister settle the funding for defence in his statement in February . the Chancellor have already put an extra £ 5 billion into the defence budget this year . we will hit 2 . 5 % of gdp three year before anybody expect we to , and we have an ambition to hit 3 % in the next Parliament . as the Prime Minister confirm this morning , we will spend what be need to deliver the vision of the strategic defence review over the next 10 year and beyond . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement , although I be more than disappointed that I only receive the SDR two hour ago at 3 . 30 pm , after the journalist . the Defence Secretary and the Prime Minister be absolutely right . we have enter a new era — one define by international instability , geopolitical conflict and global uncertainty . perhaps not since the end of the cold war have we face such myriad threat to our defence : a barbaric russian imperialism under Putin threaten Ukraine ' s freedom and NATO ' s security ; a Trumpian White House define by its total indifference to , and even antagonism towards , the defence of Europe ; and the rise threat pose by China , as well as by regional pariah state such as Iran and North Korea . take together , these threat pose a once - in - a - generation risk to our country ' s defence . meet generational risk will require make generational commitment , so I welcome the Government ' s readiness to accept all the recommendation outline in today ' s strategic defence review . it be frankly staggering , however , that we still do not have a clear answer to the vital question : where be the money come from to fund these ambition ? this be a shopping list without the money to pay for it . the Government have flip - flop on whether we can expect defence spending to rise to 3 % of gdp — the figure on which the proposal of the SDR be premise . put the cart before the horse when it come to fund the nation ' s defence send entirely the wrong message to Putin and our other adversary . will the Secretary of State commit to hold cross - party talk on how to reach 3 % ? while I welcome the announcement of new funding for military housing and urgent repair , fix our recruitment crisis and do right by our service personnel require more than stick - plaster . will the Government legislate to require all military home to be bring under the decent home standard ? it be desperately disappointing that despite have have 11 month to consider how to stem the decline in the number of soldier in the Army , the Government appear to have sit on their hand . the shameful decline in troop number have only continue on their watch . do the Secretary of State agree that if the Government be serious about deliver for Britain ' s defence , reverse the utterly reckless troop cut oversee by the Conservatives must begin now ? I welcome what the hon . Lady say on Ukraine . she will recognise that this Government have be support by all party in the House in provide steadfast support to Ukraine to fight Putin ' s illegal invasion . she will also recognise that since this Government be elect in July , we step up the support for Ukraine . I hope that she will recognise that we have also step up the leadership that the UK can offer on european security more widely . as well as convene meeting , I chair the first Ukraine support group meeting after 26 meeting in which the US have lead the way . alongside the French , we be convene the 30 - odd nation that be look at secure a long - term peace in Ukraine , if a ceasefire can be secure . this week at NATO , I will continue those discussion with Defence Ministers . the SDR be a vision for the next 10 year and beyond . it can be deliver within the spending commitment that this Government have make . as the Prime Minister underline this morning , those spending commitment be bake into the term of reference , and have be confirm by the reviewer . as he have say , we will spend what we need to deliver this review , and I be totally confident that we will meet the ambition of 3 % in the next Parliament . on military home , the hon . Lady be right to mention the scandal , which have go on for year , of make the family of those who serve live in substandard home , which be often mouldy and damp , with leak roof and door . we can change that , and we have act to start to do that . this year , for the first time , we buy back family military home , and we now control 36 , 000 of they . last month , also for the first time , we set out a consumer charter , with the basic of what people can expect from the MOD as their landlord . we have also confirm an extra £ 1 . 5 billion over this Parliament to deal with the bad military family home . we can start to develop for the long term , and build the home that we need for our force , and in the country more widely . we will be able to use well the huge asset that MOD land offer . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I pay tribute to Lord Etherton , who die recently ; his review on the injustice to LGBTQ + veteran be enormously important . I really welcome this review from the Secretary of State . I have be around long enough to have see the word " review " , " defence " , " strategic " and " modern " use many time . as the Secretary of State highlight , the nadir be reach when the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) be Secretary of State , in a report that have more picture than text . this report will live only if all member of this House agree that it be long term , because as the Secretary of State know , chop and change and stop and start programme can cause real problem for our man and woman on the ground . do the Secretary of State agree , and what be he do to make sure that we embed the review for the long term ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s welcome for the strategic defence review , which recognise the threat that we face and map out the framework for the investment decision that will deliver it , make our force strong and make the british people safe . I will work with member from all party in the House whenever national security and the safety of our people be at stake . I welcome her support . I also welcome my hon . friend ' s chairwomanship of the Treasury Committee . I hope that her Committee will take an interest in the defence investment at the heart of the SDR and at the heart of our plan . the record defence investment that the Government be make in this country not only reinforce our national security , but can drive economic growth and bring a defence dividend that will drive the mission of this government to increase economic growth and bring job , business and new tech to every part of the country . I call the Father of the House . history repeat itself . in 1935 , we spend just 3 % of national wealth on defence , and because we rearm almost too late , we almost lose civilisation . by 1945 , we be spend 52 % of national wealth on defence . give that we face a crisis in Europe , with an unparalleled russian rearmament almost as great as that of Germany in the 1930 , will the Secretary of State do the right thing by history and give this House a firm commitment to 3 . 5 % , not as an ambition , but by a set date ? give the point that the right hon . Gentleman make , there be two thing that I be surprised he have not welcome . the first be the historic increase in defence spending that this Government have already put make , with an extra £ 5 billion in our first year in government alone ; he will remember that when his party come into power in 2010 , it cut defence spending by £ 2 billion in a year . we also have a commitment and plan to increase spending to 2 . 5 % in two year ' time and to 3 % in the next Parliament , which be an ambition that I be confident we will fulfil . he be right to say that if we be to meet the challenge of the SDR , and the challenge of reinforce our industrial base and our armed force , we can not do it alone . we be not do it alone ; we be one of 32 nation in NATO . the second thing that I be surprised he have not welcome be our security and defence partnership agreement with the European Union , which be potentially a first step to work with other european nation in the EU , and use financing that may be available in Europe to do exactly as he urge . I be sure that the whole House be in no doubt about just how proud we be in Barrow and Furness to be build the submarine that keep our nation safe . the commitment to expand this country ' s submarine programme , with up to 12 SSN - AUKUS boat to be build in our shipyard , be the start of the next chapter of that illustrious career . do my right hon . friend agree that defence spending under this Labour Government mean investment in british company , in local supply chain and in the very fabric of our community ? I do indeed ; my hon . friend be right . she be a strong champion for Barrow and its shipyard . as she will know , the investment programme that we have confirm be about increase the ability to produce more submarine more rapidly , and reach the point where we can look to design , build and launch a new attack submarine every 18 month . that will allow we to respond to the threat that we anticipate in 10 and 20 year ' time , and to meet our NATO commitment . we will succeed to the extent that we have a Government ready to invest , and a town in Barrow and a supply chain of proud worker from across the UK who be willing to lend their professional expertise to this most important mission : secure our nation ' s defence for the future ; contribute to a strong NATO ; and reinforce our ability to generate job and prosperity , include in Barrow . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . when I work on defence review at the Ministry of Defence , they all have up and down arrow . from what I have read of this defence review in the brief time we have have with it , there seem to be a lot of up arrow ; I could really find only one down arrow , which be about not extend the Dreadnoughts ' out - of - service date beyond 2050 . do the Secretary of State want to roll the pitch a bit and indicate where capability might be de - emphasise , or indeed lose ? the strategic defence review set out a vision and framework for decision over the next 10 year and beyond . it can be deliver only because of the historic increase in defence spending — the large since the end of the cold war — that this Government have make . that be the basis on which we will make our decision , and on which we will deliver the SDR ' s recommendation . it be a proud day for we in the home of the british Army : Labour be invest more in defence — and more than we see in 14 year of Tory Governments . it be clear that we need more innovative financing solution to support the new defence technology mention in the SDR , such as the technology be develop at Cody business park in Farnborough , which I visit this morning . will the Secretary of State support my campaign for a multilateral defence , security and resilience bank to help power more investment , job and opportunity in Aldershot , Farnborough and right across the country ? my hon . friend be proud of the Government and of the SDR , and we be proud of she — the first Labour MP ever for the town of Aldershot , home of the British Army . she serve that community and the Army with great distinction . she be also do extremely valuable work on how we match the significant increase in taxpayer ' investment in our defence with more private source of investment . I have be follow her work in develop those idea , and be look at they closely ; I know that my right hon . friend the Chancellor be , too . like many in the House , I have only have a chance to skim - read the SDR . fundamentally , it seem to be head in the right direction , but why be it so timid ? why be it so slow ? if , as the right hon . Gentleman say , we face an era - define moment , why not move with the pace that the era demand ? why not commit to 3 % within a meaningful timescale , to give industry and the force a serious opportunity to plan , and to make this a document worth its name , rather than say , " let ' s see how little we can get away with while keep the paper happy " ? I reject that characterisation completely . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman recognise that the SDR be go in the right direction ; it certainly be . he will recognise that it be a complete break from what the Government of whom he be a lead member , less than year ago , preside over — 14 year of hollow out and underfunding our armed force . it be defence with no vision for the future , and it have end now . this be a plan to use the very well innovative technology to reinforce the strength of our armed force and the traditional hardware that we have . the SDR will deliver that vision , and we will deliver it . this SDR underpin the reason that I leave the Royal Air Force : to be part of a Government who take their commitment to defence and security seriously and will bring about the end of the hollowing - out of our armed force that take place under the last government . the measure take within this SDR reverse fundamental and damaging delay cause by the previous Government within our defence programme , support our personnel and provide a clear and credible path to meet the challenge present to we by Russia . but as General Barrons have say , the great threat to this SDR be in its delivery , so can my right hon . friend provide we with an understanding of what measure be be put in place to ensure that we deliver the SDR and the defence proposition that underwrite our defence , our security and our prosperity ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the contribution he make to debate in this House and to the determination of the Labour Government to deliver this SDR . I say in my opening remark that there can not be investment without reform , and from day one reform be a top priority for I as Defence Secretary . it do not bring photo opportunity and front page , but it potentially bring the result that we need in the future . we have set up a military strategic headquarters ; we have the Chief of the Defence Staff now command the chief for the first time ; we have a new national armament director ; we have a single investment budget ; and we now have budgetary control that be not there before . these reform be in place , and we will drive further reform that the SDR reinforce and endorse . this be how we will give ourselves the good chance to deliver the vision set out by the reviewer so ably in the strategic defence review report . what be the difference between the Chancellor ' s black hole and the Defence Secretary accept 62 recommendation from the SDR without commit the fund to pay for they ? the Prime Minister and the Government have commit the fund — [ interruption . ] we have commit the fund . we have build they into the term of reference that will allow this strategic defence review to be deliver over the next 10 year and beyond . that be the confirmed view of the reviewer , and that be exactly what my job as Defence Secretary will be to do . I strongly welcome the Secretary of State ' s support and his leadership in this time of increase threat . we see over the weekend that Ukraine have manage to destroy , it say , as many as 40 russian bomber deep inside Russia , with a value , it would say , of £ 5 billion . that be almost as much as we be raise the defence budget by . we have to get after innovation , and this SDR do that . in particular , I want to ask the Secretary of State about page 59 , which talk about " rapid commercial exploitation " . it mention the need to " pull late technology into operation " , and to " unlock private equity and venture capital " . my question be this : do we need to change the commercial competition law within the civil service to allow that to happen , or can it already happen ? we certainly have to change the procurement system . the Chancellor and I have already announce in the spring statement the way that we will ensure that the sort of innovation my hon . friend talk about can move to contract far fast than it have do before , and that we can ensure that the sort of spiral development that the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , first start to look at in Government can be pursue and put in place . we will do that ; it be part of the procurement reform that we be bring into place . pace , innovation and the new company that have so much to offer be part of how we will do this in the future . Mark Rutte , the head of NATO , have say in the last few day that all NATO nation must achieve 3 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending . I respect the Secretary of State a lot , and he have know I for a long time in this House . when he say on Saturday that there be " no doubt " that UK defence spending would rise to 3 % by 2034 , I nod in approval and think , " great , they have a commitment . " by Sunday , however , that appear not to be the case . nobody here want this strategic defence review to succeed more than I do , as I have never agree with the idea of the peace dividend from start to finish . Russia , China , North Korea and Iran be all see as threat , so will he now please get to the Dispatch Box as the character that he be and say that to achieve this we will need at least 3 % , if not more , and that this Government will be commit to spend it ? I say to the right hon . gentleman : do not take it from I at the Dispatch Box — take it from the Prime Minister when he say that we will spend what be need to deliver this review . he have make that commitment in the House ; he have make that commitment today . the vision of this strategic defence review now become the mission of this Government to deliver . much of the new hardware pledge today will not be deliver for some year and will not be effective without the personnel to operate it . what more will the Government do right now , not in 2034 , to ensure that our armed force recruit the service personnel who these long - term plan will rely on ? the hon . Gentleman be right . in many way , defence be a special case ; we need to take many decision now to secure the future of subsequent generation , and to develop and secure the capability that we will need to do that in 10 , 20 and 30 year ' time . the hon . Gentleman be also right that it be the people who be at the heart of this . he will recognise the 14 year of failure lead to the recruitment and retention crisis that we be leave with last summer . he will know that I have remove over 100 of the rule that prevent some people from apply to join the force . he will know that I have introduce direct entry for those with cyber talent to join and contribute to our defence . he will also recognise that we be look to retain those who be valuable to we by pay well , by look to upgrade the housing and , where need , through special retention payment . this be go to take time . we be close the gap and I be determined that we will reverse that long - term decline . for the first time , this be a Government who want to increase , not far cut , the size of our Army . the review be welcome . where the last Government hollow out our armed force , we be rebuild . Russia ' s northern fleet and China ' s polar silk road ambition have see both country focus and co - operate in the High North . as the framework nation for the joint expeditionary force , the UK have limit surface fleet capable of operate in the polar ice . can my right hon . friend confirm whether the new hybrid Navy will see that capability scale up ? I can . my hon . friend play an important part in debate in this House , include on the Defence Committee . she recognise that , as we can see from Ukraine , it be the nation that be able to bring together the rapid innovation in new technology with the hardware of establish weaponry and platform that will have the combat edge in the future . I be determined that Britain will be at the leading edge of innovation in NATO , that our force will be well equip in the future , and that we will reform and rebuild our british industry to equip they for exactly that . I very much welcome the aspiration of this strategic defence review and welcome the statement on page 7 that , " we will develop a new Defence Investment Plan " . however , as the Secretary of State know from all the Budgets and fiscal event he have sit through , he can not give the House a categorical assurance over future spending commitment , so will he make it clear to the House what decision he be prepared to make with respect to the exist commitment such that he can secure that additional funding at subsequent spending review and Budgets ? I hope that when he come clean completely to this House , he will make clear that there will be considerable ongoing investment in the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down , which do an enormous amount to secure understanding of future technology in the defence arena . the delivery of the SDR vision can only be do because of the commitment that this Government have make to increase defence spending . the defence investment plan be a new investment framework and a new investment programme , develop in the context of and define by this SDR vision . the work on the new investment plan will be complete and publish in the autumn . there be much in this strategic defence review that will be of interest to my Committee . I welcome the report and in particular the recognition that science , innovation and technology be an opportunity as well as a threat . can he confirm that the numerous reference to AI in the report be to a sovereign AI capability , whether publicly or privately develop ? have spend last week in Brunei as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme , observe the amazing work of the Royal Gurkha Rifles , will he also confirm that despite this tilt back to NATO , he recognise the contribution and strategic importance of that base in the South China sea ? my hon . friend be right . the approach at the heart of this strategic defence review and at the heart of this Government ' s commitment to our collective deterrence and defence in the Euro - Atlantic be NATO first , but it be not NATO only . alliance and partnership such as the global combat air programme and AUKUS , and partnership we have with other nation , remain important . on innovation and the british base , my hon . friend will recognise that , as part of warfighting readiness , we require an industrial readiness . that industrial readiness — that industrial deterrence that be part of prevent our adversary from consider attack against we — mean that our company must be able to innovate and scale up production if we be face with conflict in the future . that will be a touchstone for the way we will take many decision as we invest in the future . this defence review give we a long shopping list of technological advance — the cyber command , digital backbone , drone , AI — and that be right and proper , but the british military be tiny . recently , the Select Committee hear that if we have to fight tonight , we could scratch together five ship and 30 plane . the person who tell we that be the former head of the MOD ' s own strategic net assessment office . do the Secretary of State agree that the lesson from Ukraine be that to fight and win war , we need to have a mass of force — a large force — with tech that be good enough , rather than a small , perfectly form , high - tech force ? be that lesson be heed in the review ? the short answer be yes . the long answer be that we do not fight alone and we do not plan to fight alone . we be a lead member of NATO , a 32 - strong alliance that have never be big and have never be strong . as we approach the NATO summit later this month , there will be a discussion about the capability that each nation contribute and develop in the year ahead , so that we can strengthen that collective deterrence , avoid the war that we do not want to fight , and strengthen our collective and our UK defence . anyone who hear Carsten Breuer , Germany ' s Chief of Defence , speak at the weekend will have find his word deeply sobering , so I congratulate my right hon . friend on the SDR , which be modernise our defence , from Atlantic Bastion to the transformation of our defence and a tech - drive approach . I particularly welcome the cyber and electromagnetic command . he speak of a strong deterrence . will he confirm that there be a need now for strong offensive cyber - work by our force ? my hon . friend be right . he will be aware of the national cyber force that we be develop far . he will also be aware that I have confirm , and the SDR recommend , the establishment of a cyber and electromagnetic command , which will be in place and do exactly as he suggest : it will reinforce our capacity , our expertise and our ability to do both defensive and offensive cyber as part of the deterrence and the defence that we need for this country . I welcome the defence review — it set a direction and there be much in it — but I do not agree with paragraph 20 on page 68 : " defence should only run training and education itself when it can not be obtain externally at suitable quality and cost . " I think that tie in with paragraph 4 on page 105 : " as it reconsider its training estate need , the Navy should ensure there be ' capacity by design ' " . I worry that that would mean the closing of the Dartmouth academy . let I explain why I have link those two statement . I be sure the Secretary of State have visit the United States naval officer training academy in Annapolis . the model there bring a real fellowship to people who want to stay in the armed force because of all the thing offer through the degree and so on . I will perhaps expand on those comment when we have a further debate , but will the Secretary of State give a reassurance that great institution and building such as Dartmouth will not be close under this review ? this SDR and the plan that will follow will only build far on the proud professional tradition and reputation of our Navy , RAF and Army training . I look forward to the further debate that the right hon . Gentleman promise . I welcome the calm assurance that my right hon . friend have bring to the House . our country be safe and strong for the decision that he have announce today . but if we be to be more prosperous , too , we will need clear objective for the spending that he have announce to drive more job , more innovation and more economic growth here in our country . will he set out clear target for each of those objective when he bring forward the defence industrial strategy a little later on this year ? I will take my right hon . friend ' s well - inform observation into account . I will take the observation of his Select Committee into account . I welcome the attention he have give to this review as we develop our thinking for the defence industrial strategy . there be a serious lack of answer here . apparently there be go to be further clarity in the forthcoming defence industrial strategy , financial service strategy , defence diplomacy strategy , reserve personnel strategy , defence housing strategy and defence estate optimisation programme . the Secretary of State can not even provide clarity on where the money be come from . will he provide some answer on what on earth the Government have spend the last year review ? we have spend the last 10 month deliver for defence . we have put in place the large increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . we have give the armed force the big pay rise for more than 20 year . we have vote for £ 1 . 5 billion to increase the standard of armed force housing and we have bring back 36 , 000 military home . we have invest in strong support for veteran . we have also strike the deep defence agreement , in the Trinity House agreement with Germany . we be deliver for defence . the Government will do more , and the SDR give we the vision and direction to do that . I welcome the SDR , in particular the reference to an increase in investment in the defence medical service . give that 70 % of veteran have a clinical mental health condition , will my right hon . friend explain how the interface with NHS mental health service will be manage ? my hon . friend make a really important point . just as the NHS contribute to our armed force , so member of our armed force often work full time in our NHS . it be a synergy that few understand and few appreciate , and it be a strength that we need to build on . I will work with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary in the come month to advance the recommendation and the vision for reinforce the readiness and strength of our armed medical service . I welcome the NATO - first strategy in the SDR , and the fact that we be look to lead in NATO . last week , I be at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dayton , Ohio , where the NATO Secretary - General Mark Rutte say that 3 % will not be a credible solution to defence — he be go to set this out at the NATO summit this month — and that 3 . 5 % be require to be credible , with another 1 . 5 % on defence - relate funding . if that be what NATO say a credible commitment be , will the Defence Secretary commit to 3 . 5 % ? those discussion be for the NATO summit later this month . we go into that summit have make a record commitment to invest and to increase defence spending , in two year ' time , to a level that we have not see in this country since 2010 , with an aim to get to 3 % in the next Parliament . the NATO summit will be a discussion about how we spend , how well we spend and the capability we can contribute to NATO , just as much as it will be about spending commitment . I say to the hon . Gentleman and to the House that we make an extraordinary contribution as a nation to NATO , and we will step that up through pursue the SDR vision . of course , at the heart of it be something we contribute that no other nation do : in full , we commit our UK nuclear deterrent to NATO , as the ultimate guarantor not just of our own national security but of the security of our NATO ally . under the previous Government , only two out of 49 major defence project be be deliver on time and on budget . do the Secretary of State agree that this government be get to grip with the financial mismanagement and fail procurement system we inherit ? give that the extra defence spending have come from the aid budget , do my right hon . friend agree that it be even more important that additional money deliver frontline capability and job , and be not lose in the system or to the bottom line ? it be always important that public money be well spend and that we can demonstrate good value for money . we still have some way to go on the reform of defence , but the step we have take already and the action we plan in the future will help we to ensure that we can get well value for the british taxpayer and well value for the british force . the review describe responsibility for space policy within Government as " fragmented " , so its proposal for a " reinvigorated Cabinet sub - Committee " to set the strategic approach to space be to be welcome . that will clearly have significant implication for the development of a vertical - launch satellite facility at SaxaVord spaceport in Shetland . will the Secretary of State ensure that hardwired into that Sub - Committee be a process of engagement for the operator at SaxaVord and the community that host they , so that both might be empower to deliver on this most important strategic objective for the country as a whole ? at the heart of the SDR ' s insight and recommendation be a new relationship between Government and industry — one that we have already start to put in place and that allow industry and potential investor to see the challenge that we face and contribute their idea and innovation to solve they . that principle will be apply just as much in space as it will in other area of new capability that we need to develop . the procurement system that my right hon . Friend inherit from the conservative party be in chaos , with only two major defence project out of 49 be deliver on time . what be my right hon . friend do to get to grip with that situation ? new technology need to be deliver on time ; otherwise , it risk be outdate by the time it be put into use . my hon . friend be right , and he be sit next to my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who chair the Public Accounts Committee that quite rightly see and brand the defence procurement system as " broken " . the overhaul require be a measure of the extent of the reform . we have begin that and we will complete it . recommendation 26 sensibly call for the expansion of in - school cadet force . will the Defence Secretary work with the Department for Education to reverse its penny - pinch cut , and reinstate school staff instructor grant to help extend cadet force into more state school ? we will indeed work with the Department for Education in deliver the recommendation and ambition set out , quite rightly , in the SDR , which be to increase the number of cadet by 30 % by 2030 . it offer a unique opportunity for many young people to gain skill and experience that make a transformation to their life and prospect . this be unquestionably an important moment and a significant review , so I find it incredible — astonishing , in fact — that once again for this important statement Reform member have go awol . they clearly do not give a damn about the defence of our country . on page 32 of the review , an overview of the dependency and threat include critical mineral such as lithium . do the Secretary of State agree that the most effective way to reduce dependency on such critical mineral from the like of China , be to invest heavily and urgently in domestically produce and process critical mineral such as tin , lithium and tungsten in Cornwall ? I be not sure whether my hon . friend have tin , lithium and tungsten mine in his constituency , but he be right to point to those natural reserve in this country in Cornwall . he make a powerful case to the House this afternoon . the Secretary of State will know that the Democratic Unionist party , and the people we be privileged to represent from Northern Ireland , be hugely supportive of our armed force . he should know that as a region , we disproportionately provide more personnel than any other part of our country to those armed force . I be encourage to hear he talk about every region and nation of the United Kingdom benefit from the SDR , but although we hear about Derby , Govan and Barrow , there be a slight omission regard Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State know how pivotal company in my constituency be for Ukraine in its initial phase of defence , with the nlaw and latterly with Starstreak , so can he confirm that Northern Ireland will indeed benefit from strategic and significant investment ? I can , and as the right hon . Gentleman know , Northern Ireland be benefit already as a result of decision that this Government have take , not least with the lightweight multirole missile that be produce in his constituency , and which we be ramp up to deliver more to Ukraine during this year . the £ 6 billion that I announce in munition for the next five year will include another six munition and explosive factory , and I hope he will welcome that . he will know that in Northern Ireland , Scotland , Wales and England , munition production be already the source of skilled , long - term , well - pay and trade - unionise job , which be something I know he will welcome for the future . the importance of good cyber - security be reference throughout the SDR , and it be critical for our defence . Ebbw Vale college have an excellent course in that sector , so to address this threat , will the Secretary of State please advise how the Government plan to get more young people into role in cyber - security for the future ? I would encourage my hon . friend to take a hard look at the plan . the first recruitment be under way at the moment for the new direct entry of young people who have gaming skill , code skill , computer skill — the sort of skill that be invaluable for our armed force in that wide mission of defend the country , with the direct entry route that our new cyber - force recruitment be make available . I know there will be talente young people in his constituency who have a part to play and an interest in help the nation . rise — order . question be very long , and the answer be get long as well . we need to get many colleague in , so can we please keep it short ? it be tempting to remind the Secretary of State about the 4 . 5 % to 5 % of gdp that be spend on defence by conservative government throughout the cold war year of the 1980 , but instead may I ask whether , like I , he would endorse what Admiral Lord West write in the national press last week , when he state that the Chagos deal be a " disgraceful decision " , and that as a former chief of defence intelligence , he do not accept that the move be " absolutely vital for our defence and intelligence " as the Prime Minister claim ? he be a former labour security Minister and current House of Lords representative on the Intelligence and Security Committee , so he know what he be talk about , doesn ' t he ? on the contrary , Madam Deputy Speaker , this deal be essential to safeguard operational sovereignty for the UK of the base on Diego Garcia , to allow we to protect within the 20 nautical - mile radius of that base , and the ability to safeguard that for the future . it be essential to our and american intelligence and defence operation , and it be a linchpin of the special relationship that we have between the US and UK on intelligence and defence matter , of which the right hon . Gentleman be always such a strong champion . while the Government pledge to raise defence spending to 3 % of GDP , funnel hundred of billion in public money to arm company and their shareholder , and continue to arm Israel ' s genocide in Gaza , they be at the same time slash disability benefit , keep million of child in poverty through the two - child benefit cap , and cut winter fuel support for pensioner . how do the Government justify find billion for war , while claim there be nothing for the poor ? the first duty of any Government be to defend the country and keep its citizen safe , and we invest in defence in order to deter and prevent the war that bring such extreme human and economic cost . I ask my hon . friend to consider this : if we can not defend the country , where will we be with an NHS without power , and with submarine cable that mean datum do not work ? strong national security be fundamental to a stable economy , a strong society , and I hope she will recognise that it be imperative and important for the country that we pursue the vision in the SDR . it be right that the Secretary of State recognise the military community who serve across the UK , and that we recognise those community that support they . the strategic defence review recommendation that the Government have accept will have a direct impact on community across the UK , but when we will know , so that community such as Leuchars in my constituency be aware of the implication of the defence review when think of thing such as education , transport , health and other infrastructure ? from today , armed force community , include in the hon . member ' s constituency , will be able to read the report for themselves , and draw out the implication for they and their family . I be proud that my constituency of Carlisle and north Cumbria be home to Europe ' s only electronic warfare tactic facility , and proud that this Government have set out step in the SDR to strengthen our electromagnetic and cyber - defence . will the Secretary of State say a little more about why those element of our defence be so critical ? the facility in my hon . friend ' s constituency play an essential role in our national security , and I welcome her support . she will recognise that the decision to set up a cyber and electromagnetic command be part of what the SDR do , draw lesson from what we can see about the way the nature of warfare be change week by week in Ukraine . the document say that " this will allow we to grow our nuclear - power attack submarine fleet to up to 12 . " be not the truth — and let ' s speak the truth — that that be the ask to the Treasury , and the spending review have yet to decide what the defence programme will be ? I hear what the Secretary of State say , when he say with his full force and sincerity that " we will fund this defence review " , but how will he achieve that without much more significant cut to other budget ? no Government can afford to spend and borrow much more , if anything at all , so how will he get the necessary cut through to fund this big increase in defence spending , beyond 3 . 5 % because we all know we will need more than that ? the hon . Gentleman ask I about the attack sub : our investment be in production capacity , so that we can build at a fast rate and have a double production line in Barrow , which will allow we to build the number of new sub that we will need to deter future threat and meet our NATO commitment . I be glad that he welcome that . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his statement about this significant investment in the security of our nation . I be thrill that the Prime Minister announce that there will be up to 12 new attack submarine , boost growth in Scotland and keep the UK safe for year to come . however , I be astonish to read over the weekend that the SNP Government in Holyrood be block investment in a specialist welding centre in Glasgow by withdraw a £ 2 . 5 million grant . if the SNP continue to block funding for that centre , will the Secretary of State confirm that this Labour Government will step in ? I be astonish to learn over the weekend that the SNP Government be withhold £ 2 . 5 million in support for Rolls - Royce to set up a specialist welding skill centre . the centre be essential not for munition , as the SNP Government say , but for shipyard across the board , which act as a pipeline to bring wealth and job to Scotland . I can confirm to my hon . friend that if the SNP will not change its view and will not step in to make the skill centre possible , then we will . my constituent in Gosport will be keen for the Secretary of State to clarify two point . first , the line on page 105 about reconsider " training estate need " will concern many , so will he confirm that the outstanding training establishment at HMS Sultan and HMS Collingwood , which employ so many , will not be under threat ? secondly , when will the promise fund for accommodation come through ? the previous Government spend £ 400 million on upgrade accommodation , which be begin to filter through , but some 69 service family accommodation unit in Gosport be now empty because they be deem not fit for human habitation , and that be get bad under his watch . we be do further work on the nature and need of our defence estate . it be right that we do that ; because we now have a long - term view , we will be able to take well long - term decision on that estate . the home that the hon . Lady mention be among the 8 , 000 empty family military home , many because they be unfit for family to live in . I hope that she will welcome the extra £ 1 . 5 billion that we will create in this Parliament for overhaul the bad , as well as the long - term plan in the defence housing strategy that we will publish , because we can — and we must — do much well for our military family . as a veteran and on behalf of my constituent in North East Derbyshire who be serve or who have love one in the armed force , may I say how much I welcome the commitment to support armed force personnel in the review ? it recognise that we need to improve the defence medical service , propose £ 1 . 5 billion for housing , and commit to a second , above - inflation pay rise for our personnel . that will mean that for the first time in a long time , no member of our armed force will receive less than the national living wage — it be shocking that that be ever the case . do the Secretary of State agree that while the Conservatives leave we in this mess and Reform Members could not even be bother to turn up to the debate , this review show that Labour be the party for our armed force personnel ? my hon . friend be right : labour be the party of defence and Labour will put defence people at the heart of our plan for the future , with well pay , housing and kit to serve in the job that they volunteer to do to defend we all . this Government seem to have confuse security with spend more on weapon , but warhead do not buy a safe world — they make it more dangerous . instead of waste £ 15 billion on nuclear warhead — weapon that must never be use and that should be as unacceptable as biological and chemical weapon — at a taxpayer subsidy of more than £ 1 million per job create , why not instead spend that money on real security that must involve defence and diplomacy and development ? real security mean decent housing and public service , tackle the challenge of the climate crisis and pandemic - preparedness because — order . I call the Secretary of State . we be strengthen our armed force to secure the peace , not to fight the war . we deter the attack that we fear by be strong enough to defeat our enemy . I say to the hon . Lady that our deterrent have help to keep stability and peace in Europe for over 75 year , it have be the ultimate guarantee of our national security and it be what Putin fear most . we be the only european nation in NATO that commit its deterrent in full to the protection of other NATO ally . we play a unique role and we make a unique contribution . I would like the hon . Lady to recognise that , even if she can not support it . I be pleased to read in the SDR about the importance of build on the 2024 joint declaration on the Norwegian - UK strategic partnership , which recognise the autonomy of both country and the strength that come from work together . do my right hon . friend agree that that important partnership would be far strengthen if Norway decide to purchase the Type 26 frigate — the good frigate in the world — that be build in Govan , in Glasgow South West , and Scotstoun , in my Glasgow West constituency ? they be indeed the good frigate in the world , and I have be work hard to persuade the Norwegians that join the UK , with our Type 26 frigate , be about reenforce the deep partnership that we already have , as two nation , alongside the US , protect the north Atlantic and the high north from russian aggression . rise — order . the statement have be go on for well over an hour and we will have to conclude in the next 20 minute , so question will have to be short , as will the answer . the Secretary of State have set out an ambitious strategic defence review . as soon as possible after the spending review next week , will he set out a defence investment plan in some detail , so that the Public Accounts Committee can examine whether the fund match the equipment that he have talk about today , and whether the ambitious plan can be deliver and be affordable ? as Chair of the PAC , the hon . Gentleman know the problem with the previous Government ' s defence equipment plan . as I say in my statement , the work on a new defence investment plan will be complete and publish in the autumn . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . the review put shipbuilde firmly in the UK ' s future defence plan , particularly in the high north , as I have mention in the House many time , and look towards a Royal Navy that be powerful , cheap and simple . the workforce at the dockyard in Rosyth , in my constituency , be ideally place to deliver this . just last week , we see the roll - out of HMS Venturer , the first Type 31 frigate for the Royal Navy . will the Secretary of State confirm that he be committed to shipbuilding in Scotland , include in my constituency , in contrast to the SNP , which just this week turn down the opportunity to bring new skill to that sector in Scotland ? we be totally committed to shipbuilde in Scotland . I pay tribute to the worker in his constituency in Rosyth for their pride , professionalism and sense of purpose , and the contribution that they make to our national security . the service personnel and their family at Bicester garrison , in my constituency , be victim of the scandal of military family housing to which the Secretary of State refer . the investment highlight today be therefore welcome , but to reassure my constituent , will the Secretary of State commit that military housing will reach the decent home standard ? will he give the date by which the defence housing strategy will be publish ? and will he confirm that he have accept the recommendation in the SDR that all proceed from housing development on Ministry of Defence land will be reinveste in military housing ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this long - run scandal . I be sure he will recognise that we can not turn this round overnight . I hope he will also recognise the step that we have already take this year — the 36 , 000 military home bring back into public control and the plan we be put in place for the future . that allow we in this Parliament finally to put an end to the scandal that we have see of military family be force to live in such substandard accommodation . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s confirmation that the Government will invest £ 15 billion in the nuclear warhead programme at the Atomic Weapons Establishment in my constituency . not only be that crucial for national security , but it will be transformational for read West and Mid Berkshire , support job and boost our local economy . will he set out in great detail the plan for that investment and the expect benefit to my constituent ? will he come with I to Aldermaston , Burghfield or Brimpton to meet some of the brilliant staff who work there ? I will , and I look forward to that visit with my hon . friend . as the constituency MP , she will know the essential and unique work that the AWE undertake and know that it support more than 9 , 500 job . she will recognise the defence dividend that that can bring to not just her area , but the wide supply chain with the increase in defence investment that this Government be make . while it be welcome that the SDR refer to the need for more routine protection of subsea cable and pipeline and of maritime traffic , there be no specific mention of the same commitment to the protection of North sea oil and gas platform , rig and float production , storage , and offloading vessel . they be just as important to our energy security , which be our national security , and there could be much more catastrophic consequence if they be attack . will the Secretary of State confirm that those structure will be include in any plan for the routine securing and protect of critical national infrastructure ? yes . our british fleet of submarine be the most awesome and lethal machine in the world , keep the peace unseen and unheard below the wave for generation . as my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary say , the power in that punch come from Derby ' s Rolls - Royce worker , who give they their nuclear reactor core . will the Defence Secretary tell member how we can be involve in the recommend " national endeavour " public communication campaign to make it absolutely clear how fundamental our at - sea deterrent be to our national security ? in many way , my hon . friend be do exactly that in the House by reinforce the importance of the deterrent at the heart of our security and its importance to job , technology , business , the supply chain and the strength of economic growth . she be make the case that defence investment can drive economic growth , and we will ensure that it do . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . can I push the Secretary of State on the answer that he give to my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) about HMS Collingwood ? my constituent will look for reassurance that it will have a long - term place in the defence estate . I also ask the Secretary of State about recommendation 40 , which say : " the Royal Navy should explore alternative approach to augment the Royal Fleet Auxiliary to deliver a balanced , cost - effective fleet that maximise the UK ' s warfighting capability . " the RFA be already stretch ; I have be on visit to the RFA where it have tell I that it be stretch with the operational requirement place on it . it sound to I like this be a loss of operational independence . will the Secretary of State commit to an expansion of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary consist of ship manage purely by the Royal Navy under the defence estate ? we be proud of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . it increasingly do tough job that in the past we would have expect the Royal Navy to undertake . its role and contribution be under - recognise , and I be keen to see its role reinforce and for it to have great recognition . we will ensure that we do that as we pursue the SDR ' s vision . the 1st Division , which be headquarter in my constituency , impress on I the importance of our diplomacy and soft power and the excellence of the training provide to our armed force . we have hear a lot about hard power today , but will the Secretary of State ensure that we put serious resource into soft power — the diplomacy that be so important in de - escalating risk ? will he also ensure that we continue that training in my armed force city of York ? my hon . friend ' s city of York have a proud military history , and she speak strongly of that this afternoon . she be right to recognise the role of diplomacy alongside hard defence , but perhaps she could do more to recognise the fact that military and civilian defence personnel have an important diplomatic role to play alongside the Foreign Office . one of the thing we be do be work much more closely together in this government compare with the way in which Foreign Secretaries and Defence Secretaries have be at loggerhead too often in the past , rather than work co - operatively . Sleaford and North Hykeham be home to RAF Cranwell , RAF Digby , much of RAF Waddington and Beckingham training range . this defence review will be read with interest across the constituency . many of my constituent serve in the armed force , be veteran or work in the defence industry . will the right hon . Gentleman give a commitment to the expansion of RAF Digby that be plan ? will he ensure that he support the Greater Lincolnshire regional defence and security cluster , which be establish in 2023 ? I can not give the hon . Lady a commitment at the Dispatch Box today , but I can say that I take those argument seriously and hear what she have to say . she be speak up for her area , and they have some great strength in her part of Lincolnshire . the 12 new nuclear - powered AUKUS submarine will almost double the UK ' s fleet of such submarine . give that those submarine be to be share with non - nuclear Australia , do that not go against the UK ' s obligation under the non - proliferation treaty ? as they be part of the AUKUS treaty — a treaty with the USA as well as Australia — and focus in the Asia - Pacific , do that not risk add to the grow tension between the USA and China and make we all less safe ? no and no . the AUKUS partnership be entirely consistent with the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and our obligation . the answer be no , because it reinforce regional stability and security . it reinforce regional deterrence and make conflict less likely , not more likely . Leonardo , base just outside my constituency , have be leave as the sole bidder for a major defence contract worth up to £ 1 billion . the project could contribute more than 12 , 000 job to the UK supply chain , include 1 , 500 skilled job , some of which would be in Glastonbury and Somerton . can the Secretary of State confirm the timeline for decision making on the procurement of the new medium helicopter ? I can confirm that the process be under way . we be give it our full attention , and we will make any decision as soon as we can . the Secretary of State will be aware that I have be raise concern about the state of our air and missile defence . I welcome that air and missile defence be a key focus in the SDR , which will make the UK secure at home and strong abroad . Notwithstanding previously announce initiative to bolster collaboration on air and missile defence with our ally , can the Secretary of State give we more detail on what conclusion the SDR draw on this vital aspect of national defence ? the SDR draw the conclusion that we need to take potential threat to our homeland more seriously than we have need to do in the past . that be the reason why I have make the commitment that we will invest £ 1 billion in this Parliament to far strengthen in particular radar , communication and the integration of our missile and air defence . my hon . friend will appreciate that part of the UK ' s air and missile defence be provide by our NATO ally , and we have great protection in the fact that our frontline be not on the coast of the UK : our frontline with Russia be on the border of the eastern flank . the strapline on the front cover of the review say , " make Britain Safer " . I trust the Secretary of State mean " make the United Kingdom safe " . on page 87 , it say that " the connection between the UK Armed Forces and wide society be the longstanding and necessary foundation for the defence of the country . " in the light of that , will this review reverse the rundown in armed force personnel in Northern Ireland , where today , accord to answer give in this House , there be five Royal Navy and Royal Marines personnel station ? of all the service — all three together — there be only 1 , 305 personnel in Northern Ireland , yet we supply a huge number of personnel to those service . will the review reverse that rundown and make sure that every part of this United Kingdom share in the provision of the armed service ? the hon . and learn Gentleman know well the scale and depth of the recruitment and retention crisis , and he know very well that over the past 14 year we have see consistent cut in the strength of our full - time force . this be the first government for a generation who want to see an increase in the size of the full - time British Army , and that be what we will work to deliver . I be pleased to join the Secretary of State this morning in Glasgow , where he meet some of the worker build the Type 26 frigate . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) say , the norwegian Government be consider place an order for that frigate , so can I ask the Secretary of State to do everything he can to encourage our norwegian friend to order the frigate ? I be , and I will . the Defence Secretary have just throw into doubt the future of the new medium helicopter . I be very concerned to hear that that programme clearly may not go ahead . can he tell the House whether he plan to reduce the number of RAF Chinooks , which — as he know — be very important both to our special force and to our Army ? be there any plan to reduce the number of Chinooks ? I encourage the hon . Gentleman not to read what he have into my remark . I be simply state the fact as they be : there be a process under way that have to conclude . that be what I say to the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) . this review be not about cut — it be the first review since the end of the cold war that have take place not in the context of cut , but in the context of a decade of rise defence expenditure . it be about enhance what we have for the future ; it be about build out , not hollow out . I hope the hon . Gentleman will take that as the signature of the strategic defence review that we have publish this afternoon . it be really good to see the Secretary of State come to MBDA in Stevenage recently , where its worker be refit Storm Shadow missile for Ukraine . I very much welcome what the SDR have to say about a partnership with industry to create an engine for growth for our defence sector and our wide economy , but those tool require effective personnel . last week , I be in Poland with the armed force parliamentary scheme visit our RAF personnel , and we be tell , " look , we can not speak for ourselves . we need you to champion we . " what can the Secretary of State say today to champion our armed force ? first , I hope my hon . friend will pass on my appreciation to the worker at MBDA in his constituency . they be exemplar of the high - skilled , highly committed and highly productive workforce that contribute so much to the defence of this country . I hope he will be able to say to those worker that this strategic defence review be the first of its kind — one that challenge we to think afresh , recognise the threat that we face , learn the lesson from Ukraine , and make sure that in the future we can strengthen our armed force and keep the british people safe . I hope he will recognise that the publication of this strategic defence review be a significant contribution to what he urge on the Government . in the last decade , China have expand its military to a degree only match since 1945 by the USSR in the cold war era . in the past decade , the previous Government do not read the sign come from Russia ; this Government must read the sign come from China . Ukraine do not have five year , and neither do Taiwan . I again invite the Government to bring we to the table , and let we find 3 % now . we have increase defence spending this year by £ 5 billion . we will reach 2 . 5 % in the year after next , and we aim for 3 % in the next Parliament . that be a record increase in defence spending — one that have not be match at any time since the end of the cold war . the hon . Gentleman could do more to recognise that basic fact . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and his leadership . in Edinburgh South West , we have Redford barrack , Dreghorn barrack and RAF Kirknewton , so I want to focus my comment through the lens of our service personnel . recommendation 17 rightly link retention to accommodation and , in particular , the number of move that staff often have to make throughout their service . this can be a particular issue where child be involve and both parent be serve , so when develop his policy in this area , can the Secretary of State commit to work with group such as Forces Children Scotland to make sure that the voice of service child be hear in this debate ? we will indeed . my hon . friend make a very powerful case for that organisation , but it be one among many . we be involve the voice of force family in our defence housing strategy , and we will do the same in other area , which will help we to put force family and force personnel at the heart of our defence plan . with reference to recommendation 46 , the US ' s 2025 marine aviation plan , publish early this year , outline that the US Marine Corps — by far the big user of the F - 35B — have change its programme of record , reduce order for F - 35bs by 73 aircraft in favour of the F - 35C . the upshot be that the unit price of each b aircraft be about to increase by ten of million , and we have not yet commit to a second tranche . what assessment have be make of the current queue for the F - 35A , despite the decline in its fully mission - capable rate with the US air force , and — follow on from my many write question — what assessment have be make of convert our remain b order to F - 35C and modify our carrier to CATOBAR , which would also extend their range and therefore increase their survivability in a near - peer conflict ? as the hon . Gentleman say , the SDR recommend commence discussion with the US and NATO on enhance the UK ' s participation in NATO ' s nuclear mission . we have accept that recommendation , as we have the other 61 recommendation in the review . I will not comment in public on those discussion , but this be what put NATO first look like . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this excellent review , and ask whether he will do all he can to use this new focus on british industry to choose AERALIS as the replacement for the Hawk jet , mean thousand of job in the UK ; final assembly , production and testing in Prestwick in my constituency ; the opportunity for export ; the first British - build jet in 50 year ; and our Red Arrows be british and scottish ? I know that my hon . friend will welcome the strategic defence review , and the reviewer ' reinforcement of how valuable our british Red Arrows be to the nation . he have make a very powerful case for the capacity to look for a replacement Hawk trainer in his constituency . the SDR make the commitment and set the vision that allow we to say , " we will ensure that there be a defence dividend for the defence investment we make in the future . we will do more than we see under the previous Government to direct british taxpayer ' investment first to british job , British - base business , british innovation and british tech . " I rise to speak as a proud member of the armed force covenant family ; my husband Paul be a naval veteran , and my daughter be a reservist . I be really pleased to see the whole - society approach in chapter 6 of the defence review , but what action be be take to make a career of service in the armed force more attractive to young people and to address the specific issue raise by those leave the service , particularly how the nation fail to treat they as the hero that they be ? the hon . Lady make a very powerful case , and I pay tribute to the member of her family who make their own contribution to service . I encourage she to do more of what she have do : speak up , explain , and help we close the gap that have be grow in recent year . a wide range of people in society no long have any personal or family connection to the force . we need they to understand , recognise and pay tribute to the service and the sacrifice of those who do serve — those who put on the uniform and provide for we all . last month , I have the honour of visit rbsl — Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land — in Telford . along with many defence company and organisation , it be so proud of its effort to help Britain to defend itself here and around the world . the SDR provide certainty to industry , but we need to go far to ensure that every Government agency , body and Department — from skill and infrastructure to planning and the availability of land — get behind its ethos . do the Secretary of State agree that create growth cluster zone will provide certainty to local community and assist in that mission ? my hon . friend be a powerful voice and advocate for that approach and for Telford . he will welcome the additional UK investment under this Government , which mean that we will have a new gun barrel factory in his constituency that will bring new job and prosperity . that be part of defence investment drive future economic growth in this country . the world be in the midst of an arm race . last year , accord to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , $ 2 . 7 trillion be spend on arm — a 9 % increase on the previous year . the Secretary of State be propose a substantial increase in defence expenditure by this country . I find it sad and disappointing that in the review there be no analysis , documentation or process for how we reduce tension around the world , bring an end to exist conflict , and enhance and empower the world ' s institution , such as the United Nations , to avoid conflict in future , so that we can deal with the real issue of insecurity — poverty and hunger — that force so many people around the world to become refugee . surely we could be do thing in a way that bring about a more peaceful world , rather than just pour more and more money into weapon . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s argument and point of view . he overlook the fact that the strategic defence review draw on more than 8 , 000 submission , which be part of the material on which the reviewer base their recommendation and vision . I simply say to he that we deter those conflict that have such massive human and economic cost by be strong enough to defeat the adversary who would do we harm . that be why NATO have be the most successful defence alliance in history over the last 35 year , and that be why we will step up and play a more leading role in NATO for the future . rise — I call Andrew Pakes to ask the final question . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for his leadership on this issue since we come into government . many people know that when it come to defence , it be about not just the money we spend , but how it be spend . one of the challenge under the previous Government be that the investment do not create job and opportunity in the UK . before I enter the House , I have the great privilege to serve much of our defence manufacturing workforce as deputy general secretary of the Prospect trade union . alongside our armed service personnel , I thank our defence worker . do the Secretary of State agree that it be not just the kit that we buy , but the job , opportunity and apprenticeship that we create that will mark the success of this important review ? my hon . friend hit at the heart of the strategic defence review with a different view of the investment we make . those investment will not just strengthen our armed force but help to drive growth in our economy . I pay tribute to Prospect , GMB and Unite , and the member and the worker in the defence industry who contribute so much . I apologise to hon . member on both side of the House that , despite nearly two hour at the Dispatch Box , we have not get to everybody ' s question . if any Member want to raise point with I , they should please do so directly , and I will provide they with answer . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to add to what I say in my early point of order and to seek your guidance . I reiterate how incredibly disappointing it be , as the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , on the day of the SDR , not to be able to read it before have to stand up and respond to the Government . I say early that we know of one major defence company that receive a copy of the document at 8 am this morning . I have be tell of another major prime — one of the large — that receive a copy at 8 am this morning . that mean that at the time that I be message the Minister for the Armed Forces and beg he to let we have a copy , and he be say that we could not have one , they be read the SDR over breakfast . Madam Deputy Speaker , you hear Mr Speaker refer to the phrase " skin in the game " ; he be very concerned about a document be give early in the morning to big defence company that have skin in the game . can you advise we on what more we can do to probe this point and hold the Government to account on commercial sensitivity ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of that point of order . the House will be aware of the importance that Mr Speaker , and indeed all occupant of the Chair , place on statement be make to the House first and on adequate notice be give . the hon . Gentleman have put his point on record . Bill present short - term Lets ( Planning Permission ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ben Maguire , support by Andrew George , Steve Darling , Martin Wrigley , Richard Foord and Caroline Voaden , present a Bill to introduce a requirement for a grant of planning permission to change a residential home to a short - term let in England ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 251 ) . Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Transport Committee on 14 May , 26 March , 12 March and 22 February , on bus connect community , HC 494 ; and write evidence to the Transport Committee , on Buses connect community , report to the House on 13 May , 1 April , 25 March , 18 March , 25 February and 4 February , HC 494 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I start by thank my friend , the Minister of State for Rail , for be an excellent advocate and custodian of the Bill as it make its way through the other place . as someone who start his career on London ' s world - famous red bus , there be no well person in the country than the noble Lord Hendy to kick - start the Government ' s bus reform journey . I be proud to call he my friend , and I be grateful every day for his wise counsel , frank advice and gentle good humour . what we see in the other place , and what I hope we may be able to secure in this House , be constructive cross - party support . we all recognise how bus connect we to the thing that matter most : work and school , friend and family , essential service and the weekly shop . the billion of bus journey each year — equivalent to over 100 every second of every day — be the difference between vibrant community and board up high street , between aspiration and isolation , and between get on and be force to give up . the Bill represent year of work in opposition and now in government to discard the fail 40 - year model of deregulation in favour of put passenger need , reliable service and local accountability at the heart of the industry . I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State on the importance of bus for connectivity . I note that the Bill talk about " socially necessary " service , but it would be helpful to have a well understanding of the definition of what they be beyond my own interpretation . for example , if a constituency do not have a train station , can we therefore have a great assurance that we will see no loss in our bus service ? through the Bill , we will be give local transport authority the power to determine socially necessary local service . that relate to access to employment , job , thing like health facility , and education . that power will lie with local authority and it will be for they to determine . rise — I will make some progress . before I come to the Bill ' s key measure , I will briefly set out the context . although it may be tempting for I to lay the blame for the current state of bus entirely at the foot of the last government , that would be neither right nor fair . they too inherit a broken , deregulated system that force passenger to navigate multiple operator on similar route , but with different ticket . they , too , faced decline patronage , with 1 . 8 billion few journey outside London last year than in 1986 , and , to their credit , they try to fix that . the national bus strategy , bus service improvement plan and great power for mayor be all step in the right direction to improve service for passenger . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be go to make some progress . however , in some area such as franchising , the last Government do not go far enough , so this Bill will not only build on previous reform but go far — much far — in fix the fault that be still hold the industry back from meet the need of local people . I hope that member in all part of the House will see the merit of the approach that we be take . after all , we have all hear from constituent about job not take and opportunity miss because bus service be too unreliable , or do not operate on Sundays , or do not cater for night - time shift . in London we have benefit for a long time from bus service that be well than those in the rest of the country , and I wholeheartedly welcome my right hon . friend ' s desire to level that up , but in London we also have float bus stop . I know that match the need of cyclist , of whom I be one , with those of other involve a delicate balance , but for someone who be blind , visually impair or encumber by , for instance , a buggy , get off a bus at a float bus stop be very dangerous . what plan have my right hon . friend to tackle the issue across the country ? my hon . friend may know that in the Bill we commit ourselves to produce design guidance for local authority so that they can look at what be good practice . she may also know that in the other place the Rail Minister say we be commit ourselves to a non - statutory pause on the type of float bus stop that require a passenger to alight directly on a cycle lane . I hope that that give she some reassurance . I thank the Secretary of State for the work that she be do in this regard . I be pleased to hear that the Bill require guidance to be produce to enable authority to make float bus stop safe and accessible , but many blind and partially sight people , include I , have experience problem with they . could a proper assessment of their safety be carry out to ensure that no passenger who use a bus , whether it be to go to work or to attend a health appointment , will experience the challenge that so many people currently experience when try to navigate they ? we will be look carefully at this issue . I be very conscious of the need of the visually impair community , but I be also very conscious of the need to protect cyclist and pedestrian on our road , so I be keen for we to look at the issue in the round . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be go to make a little more progress , but I shall be happy to take intervention later . I be talk about the problem cause by bus service that be unreliable , do not operate at weekend or , perhaps , do not cater for individual work night shift . we all know that each of those story be the story of a life frustrated , but , take together , they constitute an anthology of waste potential , of living standard and growth hold back . that be why improve bus service underpin our plan for change , and it be why , despite difficult choice make across Government , we confirm more than £ 1 billion in funding in the last Budget to protect vital route and keep fare down . rise — rise — I be not go to give way again to the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . I will give way to the hon . member for North Herefordshire . do the Secretary of State recognise that rural constituency such as mine have particular need , and that the funding need to reflect the extra cost associate with rurality , as well as the demographic demand ? young people , old people and people on low income rely on bus more than other . will those factor be take into account in the funding mechanism for bus service ? I can reassure the hon . Lady that we have take those issue into account in our allocation of this year ' s funding . let I now explain our approach . funding , even record funding , without reform mean throw good money after bad , and that bring I to the Bill . our reform be not ideological . regardless of what some may say , this be not about public ownership versus private enterprise . it be about enable more people to use bus , about ensure that those service be safe , more reliable and more accessible , and about harness the good of devolution . I thank my right hon . friend for introduce the Bill . Sarah , one of my constituent , be here today . her work with the National Federation of the Blind of the UK and its street access campaign have demonstrate the difficulty that blind and partially sight people experience in access bus . they can not make the choice that other make to pass their driving test as soon as they reach the age of 17 so that they can travel to their local college , school or hospital appointment . I want to draw attention to that fantastic campaign , and to ask for the Bill to make clear to local authority that they must work to ensure that all bus be accessible — not just to people with sight impairment but to those who need to access a bus in a wheelchair , like my friend who can not travel together and be often whiz past by the driver , and have to wait long than the rest of we . I thank my hon . friend for make that point so powerfully . I can reassure she that the Bill will introduce a duty for local transport authority to consult disabled passenger and disability organisation before initiate a franchise scheme . it will standardise the current disability training requirement that operator will need to fulfil , and it will give the Government new power to require operator to record datum on that training . I think that , take together , those measure should represent a positive improvement in the way in which the bus network be design to ensure that everyone can use it . as I be say , the Bill be design to harness the good of devolution . that mean transfer power away from central government and operator , and towards local leader — those who know their area good — and give they the tool to deliver bus on which community can rely . whether we be talk about the franchising that have work so well in London or Jersey , about the local authority bus company that have thrive in Nottingham and reading or about the excellent example of enhance partnership in Brighton and Norfolk , it be clear to I that one size do not fit all . the Bill will expand the option available to local authority so that each area have the bus service that be right for it , while also safeguard the need of passenger , particularly the most vulnerable . I know that the Secretary of State be commit to ensure that bus be environmentally friendly and meet the net zero target that we all want to be meet . Wrightbus in Ballymena , in Northern Ireland , be a lead producer of hydrogen bus , which provide safe , reliable , cost - effective transport . have the Secretary of State be able to have any discussion with Wrightbus — which supply bus in London and elsewhere in the UK — with a view to ensure that everyone in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can take advantage of that innovative technology ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the innovative technology develop by Wrightbus . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , have not only meet representative of Wrightbus but visit its facility . let I now explain how we be go about fix the break franchising process . it can not be right that it take Mayor Andy Burnham year to bring just one bus under public control , after be frustrate at every turn . with bus service in Greater Manchester now part of the Bee Network , usage be up by 14 % , and revenue and punctuality be also move in the right direction . however , franchising remain too complex . propose scheme need to jump through myriad hoop , and they still require my consent to proceed — which be odd , to say the least . the idea that I understand what passenger in Leicestershire or Cornwall need well than their local leader do be for the bird . in December , we open up franchising to every local authority . through this Bill , we will far streamline the process , make it simple for franchise scheme to be grant and assess . the Secretary of State refer early to place certain statutory duty on county council . when she consider that , will she consider include in those duty the maintenance of companion bus pass for people with learn difficulty who can not travel on their own ? it be not much good for they to have a free bus pass if they can not take a companion with they . will the Secretary of State join I in express our sadness and commiseration over the recent passing of Mr Andrew Wickham , who spend more than 40 year in the transport industry and over a decade as manage director of Go South Coast , which operate Bluestar bus in New Forest East ? I always find he to be a marvellously attentive correspondent , and he be someone who work until almost the very end . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and he give I the opportunity to place on record my thank to Andrew Wickham . I have the privilege of represent the constituency of Swindon South , and he run Swindon ' s Bus Company . he be the epitome of professionalism and kindness to I — not only as a Member of a Parliament , but when I be a candidate — and I pass on my condolence to his family , his friend and his colleague . the right hon . Gentleman raise a fair point about the importance of companion travel for individual with disability . he will know that the decision to add extra to the English national concessionary fare scheme be take by local authority . I be talk about our desire to make the franchising system simple . of course , the model will not work everywhere , which be why this Bill also strengthen enhanced partnership and remove the ideological ban on establish new local authority bus company . furthermore , by give local authority the power to design and pay bus operator grant in their area , the Bill give great protection for socially necessary local service , secure the lifeline route that keep community connect . in our community we have nearly full employment , but a lot of people be on extremely low wage . before the bus fare cap come in , the bus fare from Kendal to Ambleside be the second high in the entire country , cost people a quarter of their salary to get to work . as the Secretary of State make sure that devolution happen and that franchising be do in a way that be fit for purpose in each different area , will she ensure that she do not abdicate her responsibility to fully fund the bus fare cap , so that people like my constituent can actually afford to get to work ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that there be a spending review under way , but I can confirm that I fully appreciate the importance of have an affordable and accessible bus route . he will be aware that zero funding be allocate to fund the bus fare cap beyond the end of last year , and this Government step in with our commitment to the £ 3 fare . although it apply to only one in six journey — because a number of people who travel regularly will use a travelcard for a week or a month — I be aware of the importance that his constituent and other attach to the cap . I congratulate the Secretary of State and her team , include the Minister in the other place , on bring this Bill before the House . since 2010 , we have see 2 million few bus mile ride in Hampshire . in Oakley , Chineham , Black Dam and South Ham , I have hear story of miss appointment , work shift and social engagement as a result of poor service . can she confirm that this Bill will give every part of England the opportunity to take back control of its bus service ? can she explain what will happen with the devolution process and whether the power will pass to the new unitary authority or mayoral authority , or have that yet to be decide ? my hon . friend be a fearsome advocate for his constituent , and I know the importance that he place on local bus service . under the new devolution arrangement , local transport authority will be the part of local government where the new power lie . it be for local transport authority to decide whether franchising or an enhanced partnership be the route for they to deliver the service that their community need . run bus should always be about serve passenger , and I want to say something about safety and what we be do , through this Bill , to put the need of passenger first . we want to keep passenger safe at any time of day or night , and at any point in their journey , be it wait at bus stop or when on board . that be why this Bill include power for local transport authority to crack down on fare dodger and tackle antisocial behaviour ; requirement for driver of school service to pass enhanced criminal record check , close an exist loophole ; and mandatory training for bus staff to help tackle crime where it be safe for they to do so . I want to return briefly to the socially necessary service that the Secretary of State mention . two issue in my constituency be of great importance : the first relate to the fact that school - only bus be often more expensive than regular service ; and the second relate to operator , who tell I that the current SEND transport model be unsustainable and that child with special educational need and disability be be leave with a poor service . will the Bill seek to address those concern ? there be not specific criterion and provision in this Bill , but I can assure my hon . friend that my ministerial colleague and I be very aware of those issue . although school - only bus provision be provide in a slightly different way , I would be happy to talk to he about the particular issue in his constituency . I want to say something about accessibility . for many , bus be a route to a well , more independent life , yet the current patchwork quilt of standard and regulation can far disable passenger , rather than enable they . that will change through this Bill , because local authority will be require to produce a bus network accessibility plan and to consult disability organisation on change to service , as I say early . new statutory guidance will make stop place more accessible , include float bus stop , which come up early . however , after listen to concern , we will press pause on those that be perceive to be poorly design . part of the issue with bus stop in Harlow have be cause by the redevelopment of sustainable transport corridor , which we absolutely welcome . bus stop be be force to move , make they less accessible . be that something that the Bill take into account ? even if it be a temporary bus stop or bus station , we need to ensure that it fit the criterion . the Bill will improve the ability of local transport authority to deal with precisely that sort of situation . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make some progress . I be conscious that a number of member want to speak , and I would like to allow as many people as possible to make contribution . I want to say something about our commitment to meet our net zero target . this Bill will restrict new non - zero emission bus on most local service in England from no early than January 2030 , and I know that my hon . friend the Minister for Local Transport be already speak to the industry — not just about secure an orderly transition , but about the opportunity for british bus manufacturer to meet new demand both at home and abroad . finally , several non - Government amendment be add to the Bill during its passage in the other place , which be why I be unable to make a statement of compatibility with the european convention on human right . that be the result of clause 40 , which be not table by the Government . it require record violent behaviour on bus and share that datum with the local transport authority , and it also require consult trade union on staff safety . the personal datum requirement be incompatible with ECHR obligation ; as such , the Government will seek to address this matter as the Bill progress . the Secretary of State mention that the Minister for Local Transport be take responsibility for the net zero side , and I be delighted to welcome he to my constituency to see the work of Wrightbus , which be repurpose diesel bus with its new powertrain . could she provide reassurance that bus repurpose as net zero bus will also be eligible for Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government funding for decarbonisation of the bus fleet in the future ? if I may , I will write to the hon . Gentleman to confirm that point , but I understand why he be keen to raise it . in conclusion , I would say that for too long and in too many place a degraded bus network have be symbolic of wide national decline , with each poor service reinforce a sense of thing not work as they should . that end now . this Bill represent a bright future for bus travel . for the first time in 40 year , we be take back control of our bus , transfer power from operator to local leader and from Whitehall to the town hall , where it belong . I truly believe that the transport need of my constituent in Swindon be different from those of passenger in Scunthorpe or Southend . that be why bus will rightly look and feel different across the country , reflect the identity and priority of local area . this Bill be just the start of the journey . throughout its passage and follow Royal Assent , we will continue to work with the bus industry , passenger group and colleague in both Houses as we set out further regulation on the standard that we and million of daily passenger expect . well bus be around the corner , with increase reliability , great accountability and service that passenger can finally depend on . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . bus be the most popular form of public transport in the country , carry passenger on twice as many journey as train and serve thousand more stop nationwide . as the Secretary of State say in her opening remark , from the centre of London to the remotest area , they can get teenager to school , allow pensioner to visit friend and connect people to job that they would not otherwise be able to take . they keep town centre alive , connect our community and ensure that those with mobility issue , as well as the most vulnerable , can get around . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? it be a little bit early , but I will give way . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . I be just curious why , if bus be so popular and important , as he rightly say , so few of his Back - Bench colleague be line up to speak in this important debate ? it be because there be no Division later . it be not because nobody care , but because there be not go to be a Division . the previous Conservative Government recognise just how vital local bus service be to keep community connect . from 2020 to when we leave office last summer , the previous Government commit £ 4 . 5 billion to support and enhance bus service , include more than £ 2 billion to help local authority implement their bus service improvement plan . perhaps most importantly , we also introduce the £ 2 bus fare cap . just to be absolutely clear , there be Conservative Members who want to ask question of the Transport Secretary , but she seem a little unwilling . on the specific point of fare and affordability , can my hon . friend help to ensure that passenger , whom the Bill should focus on , see value for money from this Bill ? in the west midland , Mayor Parker , under his plan to take back control of our bus , be actually take money from our pocket and increase fare by 8 . 6 % ? yes , indeed . we be very interested in do that , which be why we insert a purpose clause in the other place to ensure that the key focus of this Bill be solely on passenger . by maintain the £ 2 bus fare cap , we ensure that bus travel remain affordable and accessible to as many people as possible , while help family manage the cost of living . we have voice deep concern in both this Chamber and the other place about the impact , particularly on the most vulnerable , of labour ' s decision to scrap the £ 2 cap and raise it to £ 3 . make no mistake : this be bad for those in work , who will be £ 3 , 500 bad off because of this Government ' s job tax , and bad for pensioner , who have see their winter fuel payment cut and their energy bill rise , despite repeat promise from Labour to cut their energy cost by £ 300 . one of the thing that feel so pernicious about scrap the national " get around for £ 2 " bus fare cap be that , while certain part of the country that be give long - term settlement under the last government — sometimes of up to five year — have be able to maintain the cap , large part of the country have not be able to do so . do that not go to show that the last Government be prepared to work with people from all political party , but this feel particularly pernicious because it be really target at area that have not traditionally be labour - supporting ? as always , my right hon . friend get to the heart of the matter , and I have to say that I agree with he . I would like to make one thing abundantly clear from the outset : we do not oppose franchising in principle . when implement properly , franchising can be a powerful mechanism for improve service , address local transport challenge and deliver the quality service that passenger rightly demand and expect . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a bit of progress . however , the Bill in its original form do not do that . the Secretary of State have acknowledge , and I agree , that the Bill do not mandate franchising everywhere , and that be a sensible step , but the Bill do not prioritise passenger , and nothing in it guarantee an improvement in service standard . the truth be that this Bill appear to be drive by political nostalgia . it be in many way a thinly veil attempt to recreate the municipal model of the pre - 1986 era , without fully consider the financial and operational reality of today . the Highbridge bus passenger group in my constituency have raise the issue of Sunday service either not exist or start so late that people can not get to work , bus service be put on in the summer during the tourist season but not be available in the winter , and poor connection for rural community . do my hon . friend share my concern that , without additional funding , this bus Bill will not solve those problem ? yes , my hon . friend be completely correct , and I will come to that a bit later in my speech . while we do not oppose the franchising of bus service , we do oppose a particular assumption that underline this legislation , which be that the public sector be the solution to everything . some local authority may have the expertise and resource to successfully franchise passenger bus service , but let we be clear that many do not . the very central premise of the Bill — give every local authority the unchecked power to implement franchising , regardless of its resource or capacity — be not an act of empowerment ; it be irresponsible . by remove the need for the Secretary of State to consent to franchising , as require under the previous Conservative Government , this Government be eliminate crucial safeguard . will my hon . friend give way ? with respect to my right hon . friend , I will not , because I be conscious that lot of member want to speak . those safeguard be design to ensure that franchising serve the passenger who rely on our bus service and the taxpayer who pay for they . the expertise require to design , manage and operate franchised network be not readily available in most council . that be why the Bus Services Act 2017 limited franchising power to mayoral combined authority , which be body with the scale , resource and democratic mandate to take on such responsibility . crucially , the legislation we enact to pave the way for mayoral combine authority to issue franchising model also require those authority to demonstrate that franchising would deliver genuine benefit for passenger . the removal of that requirement by this Bill be concern , and it betray the view hold by those on the Government side of the House that the public sector be inherently infallible . member will not be shock that I do not share that view , but they do not need to take my word for it . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress and then give way . member should take the word of Centre for Cities , which have make it clear that expand franchising could expose council to serious financial risk , because after decade of deregulated service , many transport authority simply lack the skill and capacity to manage a comprehensive bus network , yet would be financially responsible if an undertaking go wrong . these be not just hypothetical concern . the experience in Greater Manchester illustrate just how easily cost can spiral , leave the taxpayer out of pocket . the Secretary of State will no doubt be aware that initial projection publish in Greater Manchester combine authority ' s transport revenue budget put the cost of transition to a franchised system at £ 134 . 5 million for 2024 - 25 . that figure have since balloon , with ongoing operational cost now forecast to exceed £ 226 million per year by 2025 - 26 , which be a 68 % increase in one year . over four year , the scheme could cost up to £ 1 billion — far , far more than anticipate . moreover , the House will know that the annual level of bus subsidy in London last year amount to £ 646 million . Greater London be the most heavily populated and most economically active area in the entire country . it also have the high level of bus use . yet even with all those advantage , it require that level of annual subsidy just to keep the network run . when my hon . friend talk about the increase risk small local authority would face through franchising , he could be talk about my local authority , Isle of Wight council . do he see anything in the Bill that be appeal to small unitary authority , or be this really just a bill for big metropolitan area and large town ? the risk of the Bill be that it do not come with substantial funding attach . that be the problem . it be mismanage the public ' s expectation . I expect we will hear from a parade of Labour MPs talk about how it will transform service in their local area . without the require level of funding , it simply will not . it be really important that we stop the vicious cycle . in my area of Harpenden and Berkhamsted , the x5 have be cancel for commercial reason . the bus company say it be no long commercially viable , but that have leave people who work in the local hospital say , " I might have to move house or leave my job . " there be child who now have to wait at school or who can not get back from school because the bus go too late . we need to stop the vicious cycle and make sure the funding be there , and this be a good start to help bring bus back to the community that need they . I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give to my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , which be that without substantial extra level of funding from the Government , that simply will not happen . local authority may have the power to do it , but they simply will not have the ability . the Government have talk about the amount of money they be put into the Bill and the Secretary of State refer to it in her speech , but it be a mere £ 1 billion , of which £ 700 million have be earmark for bus planning document , not actual service . Less than 30 % be be direct toward the delivery of bus service themselves , which will not touch the side . give local authority the legal power to do something without the money be mere window dressing . if these challenge can emerge in Greater Manchester and Greater London despite all their resource , planning and political leadership , what should we expect elsewhere ? the truth be that we do not know , and that highlight the danger at the heart of the Bill . on a connected vein , through franchising , we may end up extinguish a number of highly successful private sector business , reduce they to operate for a fee and do what the state instruct they to do in term of route , service and fare . quite aside from lose the expertise that the private sector bring to the network , the Government risk remove any incentive for the private sector to invest in our bus network , potentially leave the taxpayer with ever great burden . despite my various concern about this legislation , I would like to recognise that the Bill we see before we be greatly improve during its passage through the other place — improvement drive notably but not exclusively by conservative peer . the purpose clause , which obligate the Secretary of State to consider service performance , quality and accessibility , be a much - need addition , as be the amendment require an assessment of the impact of end the £ 2 fare cap . successful amendment require the Secretary of State to review bus service to village in England , to develop a programme to eliminate serious injury during bus operation , and to require bus operator to record all datum regard assault and violent behaviour , be all table by peer from other political party to his Majesty ' s Opposition and , collectively , they improve the Bill . the latter amendment be table by the noble Lord Woodley , a labour peer and former joint general secretary of the Unite trade union . it be , bizarrely , oppose by Labour peer , but it succeed with the support of conservative peer and those of other party . a far successful conservative amendment be pass , mandate a review of the national insurance burden on special educational need transport , follow the increase announce by the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I must say that it be deeply regrettable that Labour peer be whip to vote against a measure design solely to protect some of the most vulnerable in our society . in oppose the special educational need transport amendment in the other place , the Government assert : " the Government do not expect the change to national insurance to have a significant effect on home - to - school travel for child with special educational need and disability , so it would not be proportionate to conduct the assessment that this amendment suggest . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 26 March 2025 ; Vol . 844 , c . 1756 . ] leave aside the breathtaking arrogance of that statement , it be directly contradict by the very provider task with deliver these vital service . the chairman of the 24x7 Group , one of the large operator of SEND transport in the country , have warn that change to national insurance contribution could significantly raise employment cost , make some contract unviable . that have the potential to leave thousand of child without access to the transport they rely on to attend school . to oppose even a review of such consequence be not just shortsighted ; it speak to a worrying indifference about the impact of this legislation on vulnerable passenger . the Opposition be also disappoint that Labour peer vote against introduce a safeguard against repeat franchising assessment for the same geographical area , which risk waste public resource and create instability for operator and passenger alike . similarly , it be disappointing to see Labour peer not support plan to ensure that float bus stop do not threaten the safety of those who be blind and partially sight . likewise , if improve passenger service be at the heart of the Bill , I fail to understand why Labour peer be whip to vote against the amendment that would give the Secretary of State the power to intervene when franchised service fail due to poor local management . do the Secretary of State really believe that passenger should be leave strand simply because a local authority be unable to deliver ? I do not believe that to be the case and I look forward to she amend the Bill as it proceed through the House . why do Labour peer vote against those measure ? once again , it would appear that ideology take precedence over passenger . that be why we will push to reinstate these prudent amendment as the Bill proceed through the House . the Liberal Democrats support many of the measure in the other place and I sincerely hope they will do the same in this House , for the benefit of passenger . in conclusion , franchising may well play an important role in improve the bus network of the future , but the Bill alone will not get we there . that be because the Bill do not prioritise those who matter most : the people who rely on bus every single day to get to work , attend school , reach appointment and stay connected with their community . while we welcome the positive change make by peer in the other place and we will not divide the House on Second Reading , we can not vote for a Bill that lack basic safeguard , ignore the risk and prioritise ideology over impact . we will therefore seek to improve the Bill as it proceed through the House . I urge the House to consider not just the political implication of this legislation , but its real - world consequence for the million who depend on these service every day . rise — Order . before I call the Chair of the Transport Committee , it might be helpful to indicate that after the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , there will be a five - minute time limit . I do not propose to drop it any far than that and , give the number of member here , many may be disappoint . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in the first Commons debate on the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which I welcome . the new Transport Committee decide that its first inquiry would be on " bus connect community " to address the rural and non - city service across England outside London . we have complete our evidence gathering and our report will be publish before too long . the oral and write evidence we receive be tag to today ' s Order Paper and be available via a link on the Committee website . poor bus service affect the constituent of almost every constituency in England outside London , judge by the interest in the issue during the election of the Chair of the Committee last September and in the attendance today . whether member ' constituency be rural , mid - sized city , suburban or in the London commuter belt , the interest in this issue be significant . in England outside London , there have be an overall decline in bus use of 63 % since 2002 . car travel be now not only the main form of travel , but in many place it be the only way to get around , particularly early , late and at weekend . for those who be unable to drive or access a car , the lack of decent , or indeed any , bus service mean that they be stick at home or at the mercy of family , neighbour or expensive taxi . my hon . friend could be describe my constituency of Mid Derbyshire , many part of which be poorly serve by bus . do she agree that the way forward be to give local leader the power to determine route and support they to work with private company ? I will come on to that , but yes . for a Labour Government with a focus on growth , opportunity and clean energy , it be essential to transform bus service across England to make they more reliable , more accessible and well integrate into the fabric of local community . that be important to ensure that resident of rural area be not leave behind , to support the growth and regeneration aspiration of our town away from major conurbation , and to make sure that the most vulnerable have equal access and ability to travel . in its inquiry , the Committee have receive valuable evidence from a wide range of stakeholder . when we look at the impact of decline bus service , we hear evidence that describe local bus service in 2025 as a " barrier " to opportunity rather than an " enabler " . we hear that the future of many service remain " precarious " . from a local authority perspective , the situation be describe as " challenging " . we also hear about the economic hit to many town centre from few bus ; if people can not travel , they do not spend in local shop and business . this Bill be not a magic wand , however . for instance , the Local Government Association tell we that " successful implementation will require practical support and local flexibility from central government . " I will address four key area , the first of which be improve integration and co - ordination . passenger group tell we that they need a system that work together as a whole , rather than the patchwork of disconnected service that they see at present . I therefore welcome the focus on enhanced partnership and franchise power for local authority . the franchising model have long be use in London , and it have be see more recently in Greater Manchester through the Bee Network . franchising and even enhance partnership should make for co - ordinate timetable , simplify fare structure and great accountability in service delivery so that passenger no long have to navigate a confusing web of different operator , route and fare structure . will my hon . friend give way ? I will press on , because I will be frown at if I take too many intervention . on community engagement and local need , our inquiry be tell that service should be shape by the voice of those who rely on they , ensure that route be design to connect community , not just city centre , and that they connect rural and isolated community . I welcome the inclusion in the Bill of local bus service improvement plan , which will ensure that local authority can work with operator to tailor service to the unique need of the community they serve . will the Bill ensure that service user group be an integral part of both the design and the review of local service ? I move on to sustainability and green transport . the Transport Secretary reiterate just now that bus have a vital role to play in the transition to greener and more sustainable transport , as well as in cut pollution in busy street and reduce car dependency . if my constituency experience be anything to go by , get adequate ev charging capacity to bus depot must be a priority . although that be perhaps not a feature of the Bill , I use this opportunity to ask whether the Minister will work with bus operator and power network to address that challenge for bus depot . on affordability and accessibility , if there be to be transformational change to the bus system in England , bus have to be there for those who can not drive or can not afford to own and run a car . a not insignificant proportion of the population be leave out , yet they need to get to work , to college , to the shop , to service and to doctor ' appointment , and they have to have a social and family life . even if a local area be serve by reliable bus service , that be no use if people can not get on or off they , if they do not feel safe or if they can not afford the fare . although I welcome reference to affordability and accessibility , I have some question base on our bus inquiry and the evidence to it , and on our " access deny " report , the work on which be mainly complete by our predecessor Committee . clause 14 require local transport authority operate in enhance partnership to identify socially necessary service . that be welcome , but in their evidence to we , operator and local authority have question about how that would play out . have define those service , will local authority be hold to ransom for their continuation , regardless of cost ? accessibility mean more than the design of bus and bus stop ; it include the usability of digital information , map and timetable , without exclude those who do not have a smartphone or can not get a mobile signal . we be tell that guidance on accessibility must encourage rather than discourage innovation . although clause relate to staff training in accessibility be welcome , we be tell that guidance must set out clear expectation about the nature of training that be to be provide . it must be of a guarantee minimum standard and proven effectiveness , not a tick - box exercise that enable people to say that they have do the training . the Bill do not appear to address the accessibility barrier that prevent most people who use class 3 mobility scooter from travel on bus service . furthermore , will it make reference to the Public Service Vehicles Accessibility Regulations 2000 ? as have be mention , it be also unclear whether express coach and closed - door school service be cover by the Bill . on amendment pass in the other place , will the Secretary of State have another chance to look at implement a " Vision Zero " death and injury goal for the bus sector ? the elephant in the room be fund . there be not a country in the world that have a self - fund bus service . we go to Ireland , where government policy provide that the vast majority in rural Ireland be link to their near town by at least three return bus journey per day . even London ' s bus survive on cross - subsidy from the tube system . unless and until we have a robust economy where local authority have the funding to deliver an Ireland level of bus provision , this Bill be the start and not the magic bullet in deliver the affordable , accessible and comprehensive bus network across England that we all aspire to . as other member have note , bus be the most used form of public transport , and in much of the country they be the only option available . outside London , however , bus use be in sharp decline , with more than 1 billion few passenger journey in 2023 than in 2015 . that be not because of insufficient demand , but because of the conservative policy of deregulation that put profit before people , allow private operator to cream off the valuable route with scant regard for the need of the wide community , result in increase fare and reduce or completely abandon service for many — unless , of course , the local authority , starve of access to the profitable route , meet the cost of the unprofitable one . that be exactly what have happen in Cornwall . the no . 11 and no . 12 bus serve lot of rural town and village to Derriford hospital , but it have be salami - sliced — I have just get off the phone to go Cornwall Bus — after year of underfunding . my constituent Mary in Padstow rely on that service to get her breast cancer treatment at Derriford , and she can no long afford to get to the hospital , which would involve spend hundred of pound on taxi . do my hon . friend agree that in rural area like mine , we need ringfence funding to protect those key healthcare route ? those be exactly the kind of issue that must be address , and this Bill do not do enough to achieve that . I will come back to that in a moment . in rural area , the story be often one of total disconnection , with community cut off and people unable to get to work or hospital appointment , or to visit friend or relation . do my hon . friend agree that in rural constituency like mine , bus route be an absolute lifeline and a route out of poverty ? when the 84 and 85 bus route be cut last year , it mean not only that people could not get to medical appointment or to work , but that student have to drop out of the college course that would have enable they to escape from poverty . do my hon . friend agree that we need to make sure that this Bill enable an affordable , join - up and genuinely useful rural transport network ? I completely agree . the point be that this be about not only get people out of poverty but grow the economy . People need access to bus route ; otherwise they be leave with expensive and much more environmentally damaging private transport . put simply , a poor or non - existent bus service be not just an inconvenience . it be a barrier to opportunity , a brake on economic growth , and an obstacle to achieve net zero . give the decline in local bus service under the Conservatives , my party and I warmly welcome the Government ' s renew focus on this issue . the Bill include measure that be long overdue and that my party will support . much have be make about the decline in bus usage . the pattern be similar in West Yorkshire , where between 2011 and 2022 there be a reduction of some 60 million journey . there have be lot of mention of Greater Manchester , but West Yorkshire Mayor Tracy Brabin ' s bus service improvement plan have already see a 4 % increase in bus usage . do the hon . Gentleman agree that approach that devolve responsibility and make it easy for mayor and local authority to take over public control through franchising be the route to improved usage and , ultimately , the delivery of well bus ? I do agree . it be also about funding , which we must explore ; but , yes , my party believe in localism — bring thing down to the local level be crucial . it need to be state from the off that the Bill do not go far enough . it fall short of deliver the comprehensive , transformative change that our bus network desperately need — and thus , I urge the Minister , even at this late hour , to be even more ambitious . I will now outline the measure in the Bill that my party support . local government , not whitehall , know what be good for their area . that be why my party have long champion localism , which be all about provide community with the necessary tool to realise their potential . the Bill ' s provision to improve , streamline and extend franchising right to all local transport authority be consequently long overdue and support on the liberal Democrat Benches . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate the community in north Taunton on get the first no . 1 bus of the morning — the 6 . 22 am service — restore ? I have the joy of experience it this morning , tinge only with the tiredness that result from have get the 6 . 22 . do he agree that we need specific funding so that bus service can properly connect with hospital , such as Taunton ' s Musgrove Park hospital and many other ? I be happy to join my hon . friend in congratulate the community on its success , and I agree that we need funding for these critical service . the placing of socially necessary service on a statutory footing be a beneficial change to the enhance partnership model , as it ensure that local authority assess the impact of service change and consider alternative . the Bill also rightly lift the outdated , ideologically - drive ban on municipally - own bus company , empower local authority who wish to use it , rather than infantilise they . take as a whole , the measure create an improved set of option from which local authority can choose the approach that work well for they . as the Secretary of State note , it be important to realise that this be not , and must not become , a one - size - fit - all approach . not every local authority will wish to pursue franchising , establish a bus company or abandon the partnership model . what work for Greater Manchester or London may not work for Oxfordshire or Cornwall . it must be up to local leader and , ultimately , local community to decide what work well for they . I welcome the fact that the Government be not mandate a certain approach . therein lie the challenge : empower local authority in law be one thing , but enable they in practice be quite another . although the Bill hand council a set of key to a new bus network , it do not ensure that there be fuel in the tank . franchising be complex , resource - intensive and unfamiliar to the vast majority of local authority . it require legal expertise , commercial understanding , operational planning and , above all , funding . the Department for Transport have acknowledge those difficulty , yet this legislation provide little to help overcome they . the Government ' s laudable desire to increase their own capacity to advise council be welcome , but I be not convinced that they be do enough . the recently establish Bus Centre of Excellence , which we will no doubt hear much about during the passage of the Bill , be a positive development , but do it really have the necessary capacity and resource to provide meaningful support to all those who might need it ? if we be to see franchising become a viable option beyond a handful of combined authority , we must take bold step to offer council without either the expertise or the finance more than just a helpline or homily on good practice . every hon . member in this House know how overstretch their local authority be — with the exception of our colleague from Reform , of course , who be sadly absent from today ' s debate , no doubt too busy frantically search for the untapped resource and saving they confidently promise they would discover in their new fiefdom . as for the rest of we , we know that most local authority lack the finance , expertise and bandwidth to use the tool the Bill provide . as a result , only the local authority that already have the capacity to do so will use they , which will exacerbate regional disparity , not reduce they . even if we overcome such problem , that will not remove the continue role of central Government in secure access and affordability . that be why the Government ' s reckless decision to raise the national bus fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 cast a dark shadow over the Bill . the original £ 2 cap be not only popular but effective . it reduce cost for passenger and help to bring people back on to the bus network . it be precisely the kind of policy of which we need more , not less . increase fare by £ 1 per trip may not sound prohibitive , but for those on low income or family make multiple journey , the change represent a significant cost increase , add £ 20 to the cost of a weekly commute to anyone who have to take two bus to work while only save the Government £ 150 million . let we be clear : this increase be regressive . it will hit the poorest hard , particularly at a time of a cost of living crisis . surely the Government should commit to preserve affordability , not undermine it , as raise fare in the absence of service improvement risk entrench decline , not reverse it . even more worryingly , rumour be now do the round that the fare cap may be remove altogether . that would be a catastrophic mistake . we must not allow the progress of recent year to unravel in a Treasury - pleasing piece of virtue signalling that will only save the Exchequer a furth £ 150 million . a thriving , affordable bus network be not a luxury but an essential public service . this Bill must ensure that that be the case . nowhere be that more true than in our rural area . as we have see for year , the current unregulated bus market be fail small village and remote hamlet , serve they neither efficiently nor sufficiently . do my hon . friend agree that we need to do more to protect section 22 community bus service such as West Oxfordshire Community Transport , which be now face a mountain of bureaucracy to re - tender for route that it build up from scratch against commercial bus operator that have all the ability to pitch and win , leave community bus operator high and dry ? I do agree . we must do all we can to reduce bureaucracy . the Bill go some way towards that , but it need to do more . the Bill as it stand provide nothing specific for rural area — no dedicated rural funding stream and no obligation to maintain coverage . it be clear that if we be to be ambitious and achieve the economic growth that rural area need , we must ensure that local authority have the ambition and financial mean to improve public transport . the Bill be miss an opportunity in fail to do so . one of the consequence for my constituent of lose service like the 84 / 85 , the T2 and the 622 be that they be cut off from health service . do my hon . friend agree that such access should be a priority for investment , and that a focus on the increase in passenger number when judge investment choice disadvantage rural area ? I agree . we must not focus only on passenger number . it be also about connectivity , and about make sure that rural area thrive . I would like to concentrate not just on purely rural area , but on place like Surrey . in my constituency , the 514 bus connect Esher and Molesey , two important centre of our community , but it run only twice on weekday and once on a Saturday . on Sundays it be never to be see . the service be severely cut back in 2016 . to travel a distance of a mile and a half , people have to get a bus more than five mile into London and out again , which take 40 minute — order . I have make this point before , but intervention really must be short than that . there be many hon . member who wish to get in . I will simply say that I agree with my hon . friend . hon . member have speak about rural area suffer . from 2015 to 2023 , Shropshire lose 63 % of its bus mile , the large decline in any part of England . no doubt that be one reason among many that Shropshire voter decide that they have have enough of the Conservatives . in May , they vote a majority Liberal Democrat administration in for the first time . although the bus service in Shropshire be one of the bad in the country , it be by no mean an isolated case . I have hear from colleague and resident across the country , just as the House have hear today , that in rural area such as Norfolk , Somerset and Hampshire , have no bus — or one bus a day , if resident be lucky — have sadly become the norm for many village . this be not just inconvenient ; it be hold back our rural economy and stifle growth . I fear that the measure in the Bill will not be sufficient to reverse that decline . lastly , I want to address accessibility , an issue on which my Liberal Democrat colleague in the other place and other noble Lords have make good progress and have secure a number of improvement . as originally draft , the Bill include positive provision on the mandatory training of staff , both in support disabled passenger and in tackle antisocial behaviour on board . we support those measure , but the Liberal Democrats believe that true accessibility mean more than awareness training ; it mean fully accessible vehicle , clear signage and announcement , and accessible journey planning tool . critically , it mean accessible infrastructure , from bus stop to ticket machine . the excellent amendment to ensure accessibility guidance on the provision of float bus stop , which if badly design can prove a real hazard to disabled people , be insert after representation from the Lib Dem transport lead in the Lords , Baroness Pidgeon . the inclusion of bus network accessibility plan , after pressure from Baroness Brinton among other , be an important amendment that will go some way towards help we to understand the barrier that disable resident face in access a vital lifeline . we must not be complacent , however . I anticipate that more work will need to be do in Committee , as the Secretary of State have intimate , to probe the Bill ' s provision and ensure that they be as effective as they can be . I will conclude where I begin . my party and I welcome many aspect of the Bill . after year of Tory neglect , provision to give local authority more control of and input into their local bus network be long overdue and clearly sensible , but we can not give local authority tantalise new power without a practical mean of use they . that will require sustained investment and reform of the funding model . I acknowledge that the Government have promise to include long - term funding settlement in the spring spending review , but noise off suggest that those be unlikely to address the shortfall in local government funding . the Bill will provide the necessary tool , but if council be to build something effective with they , they will need not just legislation , but the finance , expertise and flexibility require to give effect to their vision and address their community ' need . I urge the Secretary of State to go back to the Treasury and ask for more , because finance a viable bus network be key to grow our economy . I thank my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary and her team for bring forward this important Bill . local bus service be fundamental to the life of so many people , from provide access to work and leisure opportunity and social inclusion to clean up our air , reduce congestion and curtail transport emission . for many of our constituent , they make the difference between be able to seize opportunity and be deny they . put simply , bus be too important to get wrong , so I wholly welcome the Bill and this Government ' s ambition to finally put thing right after decade of fragmentation and under - investment . as the MP for Heywood and Middleton North in Greater Manchester , I have see the far - reach benefit of bring local bus service back under local control . I be incredibly proud that Greater Manchester be the only place outside London to have re - regulated its bus network , as part of create a fully integrate public transport network — the Bee Network — for the people of our city region . a recent report produce by IPPR North highlight just how much the city region have turn its bus network around . the IPPR say : " franchising be already deliver well service for people in Greater Manchester , but it be an uphill battle to get there . it ' s time for the government to get on board with well bus and support local leader on this journey . " this Bill demonstrate that the Government have get on board . I welcome the step that it be take to finally empower local leader to make the decision that they be well qualified to make . when it come to the Bee Network , the achievement of Greater Manchester be considerable . it make the world of difference in my constituency and across the city region . intervention make in partnership with local people mean that there be 17 million more bus journey across the city region in 2024 than in 2023 . the network now carry more than 170 million passenger a year in Greater Manchester . an example from my area illustrate what the Bill can practically offer . at time , Heywood and Middleton North have fail to benefit from Greater Manchester ' s rise prosperity . because local people have a big role in devise transport policy under franchising , however , I be now able to make a strong case for an express bus service from Norden and Bamford down to Heywood and Middleton and ultimately into Manchester city centre . that be something my constituent have go without for far too long . it be time to finally rebalance the scale in their favour . after consult with local people , who be determined to see the express bus service reinstate , and after produce a report set out our case , I have be engage consistently with Transport for Greater Manchester to see what can be do . I put on record my thank to the mayor and his team for take seriously the call from my constituent , include the parent and teacher who understand the value of the route to Edgar Wood school . I look forward to conversation about the service be reinstate . at its core , that be what the Bill be all about . it will put bus back at the heart of community , identify gap in provision , set about address they , enhance connection and fundamentally shape route to fit around people ' s life . I would also like to raise the issue of accessibility . our bus should be for everyone , but we know that many blind and deafblind people , and disabled people more broadly , encounter numerous serious challenge when use public transport . one issue that come up time and again — it have already come up in this debate — be float bus stop . I know that some organisation assess the risk of harm around such stop to be very low , base on the total number of incident , but I would argue that one incident be one too many . we must consider that the figure may be so low because disabled people , as a result of the expansion of float bus stop , be sometimes be deter from travel altogether , and many collision undoubtedly go unreported . the issue have be raise in the other place , as the Secretary of State say , but I ask she what engagement , to learn from the live experience of blind and partially sight people and the organisation that represent they , have be carry out by the Department in devise clause 30 and 31 . we must continuously seek to build public transport system for all , not just when it be convenient to do so . finally , I wish to raise the issue of safety on public transport . I commend the measure in the Bill to enable worker across the sector to develop their skill , include by support they to respond effectively to violence and abuse on the network . what engagement have be carry out with trade union official regard those measure ? what further step could be take to ensure that bus driver , interchange staff and other be themselves safe from harassment and abuse ? I thank the Secretary of State once again for develop this legislation and ensure that bus be at the heart of our community and that they serve and reflect the need of our constituent . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have campaign politically in North Norfolk for nearly a decade ; all the while , people have be share with I their frustration with our local public transport network . since the age of 11 , I have be watch different operator ' bus leapfrog each other along radial route and try to work out a well way of do thing for everyone . too many people find that the current system be not enough of a network to get from where they be to where they want to be at the time they need . one young person in Briston in my constituency be study to work in childcare . she be eager to secure an apprenticeship at a local nursery , but she can not get to the nursery in question until 9 o ' clock — far too late for the 8 am start time . that have cause she to miss out on a promising opportunity , and her transport option mean that she continue to struggle to break into the sector . another constituent tell I how she have move to her village because it have a bus service and she hope that it would give her disabled son the opportunity for great independence . but the village have since lose that service — and with it , the independence of the resident who rely on it . our local bus be so much more than just vehicle for ferry people from a to b . they be the key to training and employment for those enter the world of work . they be an antidote to loneliness , allow people to see their friend and family and to take part in community group and activity . they also have to get our old people to their vital medical appointment . for example , to get to the main hospital in Norwich , someone have to go all the way into the city centre and change bus . that mean that bus user in most of my constituency can attend a clinic only in the middle of a whole - day trip . if only the local authority have the power to design the route and time that work for the need of the population — put on direct service between busy hub , for instance . this be the problem : for far too long , the importance of bus network in our area have not be reflect in how they have be treat by those in power . in my constituency , reform - lead Warwickshire county council have still not appoint a transport portfolio , a month on from the election . while it dither and delay , a rural community suffer : bus timetable be be reduce and route be be cut . those who rely on public transport most be obviously be punish . do my hon . friend agree that bus transport in rural area deserve urgent and serious attention ? I certainly agree . much as I will slag off Norfolk county council at time , at least it have someone drive a bus , in contrast to her council . the problem be how the issue be be treat by those in power . it be not the fault of bus operator ; I have be grateful for the time and engagement that they have provide I on this issue and they be a valuable source of counsel as we look to the exciting future for rural service . I be also a huge fan of demand - responsive transport , which could be open up to serve a much wide range of need with some common - sense simplification of the rule . no , it be politic that have prevent a bright connect future , not bus operator . the last government ' s funding mechanism for local transport be completely unsustainable , make council compete for pot of funding rather than support long - term strategy . that make for a perfect storm in the Conservative - lead council in Norfolk , which could trumpet quick win from the grant , all the while lack a comprehensive and overarch vision or strategy for how we create a proper rural public transport network . I really recognise the point that the hon . Gentleman raise . under the Conservatives , Bracknell Forest council see bus mile per head fall from 10 . 9 to 6 . 3 mile — a reduction of 42 % . only under a Labour council have route now be expand . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be vital that we work closely with bus company through enhance partnership model — if that be right for the local area , as it be in Bracknell Forest — to improve local service for our resident ? the hon . Gentleman have help I make progress because the issue be all about attitude and mindset . in Norfolk , a former leader even eagerly tell the council that Norfolk be a car county . if only the council have realise early that its pipe dream of a quarter of a billion pound link road through a site of special scientific interest be never go to happen , it could have spend the £ 50 million it have pour down the drain in the past five year while pursue its fantasy on bus instead . I hope that the power promise in today ' s Bill be seize on in Norfolk . bus franchising can be an important first step to what we need in my constituency of North Norfolk . at present , our bus do not link up well with our one train line . there be no opportunity for integrate ticketing and no meaningful link between how the profit generate by the most popular route can be use to provide those that be socially necessary . a radical rethink of how we deliver these service be need . I hope that whoever get control of these power after the reorganisation of our local government be willing to do it . if those power be to fall into our hand at Norfolk Liberal Democrats , we would be ready to show what a successful model for rural public transport look like , just as we have see happen in our city . the Government need to come clean on how bus franchising will be fund . I hope that through the Transport Committee ' s inquiry on connect community , my colleague and I will help unlock a public transport revolution in every corner of the country . the ask from the people in North Norfolk who be concern really be not difficult : they want to be able to catch a bus to the place they want to go at the time they want to travel . this can be our chance to move away from outdated thinking . it be time to create the transport network that would really revolutionise the experience of local passenger . let ' s make North Norfolk ' s bus great again ! I welcome the Bill because it finally let local community take back control . community in Birmingham Edgbaston and the Bartley Green , Harborne , Quinton and North Edgbaston ward that I represent will welcome its measure . I speak as the daughter of a bus driver — that time - wear political clich é — who be bear and raise in her constituency and today still rely on the same no . 11 bus route . those who , like I , have live in Birmingham and the west midland for decade have see the decline of our bus service at first hand . thank to a fail Tory ideology , Britain have become one of the few place in the developed world to hand power to operator to slash bus service and to hike fare , with little say for the community who depend on they . in Birmingham , our bus service be mostly run by private provider with an enhance partnership with Transport for West Midlands . over the year , I have exchange many letter and have many meeting with one of the provider : National Express . I have campaign to extend the X21 bus in Bartley Green , improve connectivity in our area . I survey Bartley Green resident on change to the 23 and 24 bus , and have continue to fight to restore the iconic 48 bus route on which my constituent rely before it be reroute . the problem remain that in a privately run bus network , community have no democratic control over route and feel shut out of the process . but the new power in the Bill mean that that system be come to an end . the Bill matter because bus be more than just a mode of transport ; in some ward in my constituency , over 40 % of household do not have access to a car . bus service be a lifeline to thousand of people who need to get around for work or to go into town , see friend or visit their doctor — I would know , because I be a non - driver too . poor service leave our community feel isolated and disconnected . the average life expectancy of a man can drop by seven year within nine bus stop in some part of Birmingham . opportunity within a city should be feel by everyone . but connect people to those life chance need a strong public transport network . that be what this Bill be about . my constituent ' complaint be too familiar : our bus be unreliable and frequently late . it be no wonder that 50 % of brummie choose to use their car compare with 15 % of people in London . in January , National Express put up our fare in Birmingham by 40 % ; last week , it put up they up again to the maximum £ 3 fare . the current system let private operator set the term . finally , a Labour Mayor work with a Labour Government will franchise our bus , give community new power to set route , fare and service . Mayor Andy Street refuse to take bus back under his control , but Richard Parker be change that . instead of subsidise the deregulated model with £ 50 million a year to ensure that service be not axe , he will take back control of fare and route . under his leadership , the franchising process will begin this year . clause 13 , 23 , 27 and 28 of the Bill will be pivotal to the combine authority plan . from 2010 until 2023 , the mile clock by bus across the west midland drop by a third . the promise upgrade fail to materialise , and in 2014 the last Government ' s promise of a rapid transit scheme along Hagley Road in my constituency deliver only 300 metre of tramline in 10 year . under this Government , we be already on the road to fix our break bus system . the new franchising power be just the next step . the truth be that deregulation have mean little more than a race to the bottom for place such as Birmingham . brummie have see what forward - think leader such as Andy Burnham have be able to do with the Bee Network in Manchester , and we want that too . we need this legislation and continued central Government funding to make that a reality . this Bill will help my community of Birmingham Edgbaston realise our ambition . that be why I will be support it on Second Reading . I declare an interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association and the granddaughter of a London bus driver . bus service have be reduce to a dire state in my North Shropshire constituency in recent year — most drastically under the watch of the previous Conservative Government . we be one of the worst - serve constituency in England for public transport , have see a staggering 63 % reduction of our bus mile since 2015 ; that compare with an english average reduction of just 19 % . a person in Market Drayton who want to get to the Princess Royal hospital in Telford , which be a 20 - minute car journey , be look at something like a five - hour round trip on the bus . only one service operate on Sundays in the whole county , between the market town of Oswestry and Chester . in short , the current situation be unacceptable . just before recess , I meet student from Lakelands academy in Ellesmere at Parliament ' s education centre and answer their question . one young woman ask I what we be do to make bus service well , because she could not go with her friend to any after - school club due to her bus not run back to St Martin ' s past 3 . 30 pm . I recently meet member of the Oswestry Youth Forum , and they raise similar concern . young people in rural community be now present with a childhood confine to the small village or town they live in , and they be leave with a lack of choice over their education , a lack of opportunity for socialise and take part in activity outside school , and shrink horizon . ultimately , their option for employment can be significantly curtail — unless , of course , their parent can afford to give they a car . meanwhile , old or disabled constituent who be no long able to drive , or simply can not afford to , be fully dependent on family member and friend to get they to where they need to be . I think everybody in this House would agree that this be drive deep and fundamental inequality , as well as hold back the economy in rural area . that be why I be broadly supportive of this Bill . the hon . Lady be paint a picture that will be very familiar to my constituent in Dartford . in my case , we have deteriorate service under Kent county council , with 30 year of conservative rule mean that bus have get bad pretty much every year . I have write to the new Reform - lead administration in Kent county council ask they to undertake to use the power in the Bill to improve bus service in Dartford and across Kent . would she agree that the new Bill offer huge opportunity for local authority to improve bus service and transport network for the benefit of resident in my constituency and hers ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be about to say that I be broadly supportive of this Bill and the empowerment of local authority to franchise bus service for those reason . that should enhance accessibility and safety and allow local authority to establish new bus company , which they have not be able to do before . it be critical that local authority can protect and establish route that ensure access to employment , healthcare and town centre , which be one of the main aim that my own bus service Bill — Bus Services Bill no . 1 , if I may be so cheeky — seek to address , but with these new power rightly be give to local government , I have real concern about the ability of rural local authority to find the funding to drive the meaningful change we so need . in November , the Government allocate £ 1 billion of funding for bus , and the then Secretary of State for Transport say that the funding for rural area would be " unprecedented " , but Shropshire council receive just £ 1 . 4 million in capital funding and £ 2 . 5 million in revenue funding for this financial year . that be the 53rd low of 73 allocation for one of the worst - serve county in the country . that funding allocation be a tiny fraction of Shropshire council ' s bus service improvement plan , which outline the need for £ 73 . 5 million of bus funding across three year to transform the county ' s bus network to an acceptable standard . the cost of franchising be also likely to be prohibitive to local authority such as mine . the Government who promise a new formula base on need , deprivation and bus mileage to end the postcode lottery have so far make it abundantly clear that live in a rural area mean less money , less public service and less opportunity . there be a clear need for well transport in Shropshire . a third of North Shropshire ' s child be grow up in poverty . our deprivation may be hide by our beautiful leafy setting , but it certainly exist , and by limit the opportunity of these child , it be be perpetuate . the council spend around 80 % of its budget on care , a percentage that be forecast to rise , and its cost for deliver service be high . at more than 1 , 200 square mile , Shropshire cover an area 27 time the size of Greater Manchester . the roughly 325 , 000 people who live there be relatively evenly distribute across the area , add to the cost of delivery of those service . I support the principle of the Bill , but there must be recognition of the desperate situation that local council finance be in , particularly in large rural area such as mine . the loom rise of the bus fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 be especially concern , force people to fork out a significant amount every week for return travel to their job . in rural community such as North Shropshire , alternative to bus travel be few and far between . for the financially vulnerable who rely on bus to access service , the impact of the hike to £ 3 be go to be devastating . I support the Bill ' s aim , and I can see its success in city such as London and Greater Manchester , but it be essential that rural area be not leave behind and cripple by the cost of deliver social care over a large geographical area , as they have be by previous administration . bus be the good way to reduce inequality for people in rural area and , critically , to unlock the economic growth they can offer . I hope the Minister will listen and work with his colleague in the Treasury to help transform the opportunity for people in rural area . it be an honour to be call to speak in this debate on an issue that I know many of we care so deeply about . I congratulate the Secretary of State and her team on produce the Bill and , as a member of the all - party parliamentary group for bus and coach and a bus nerd , I be very excited to support it . grow up in a village , I know that our local bus service be not just a " nice to have " ; it be a lifeline . for those of we too young to drive or for family without a car , it mean everything . it connect we to school , our work , our family and our friend . without it , we be cut off . in recent week , I fear I have become one of those people in this place who often talk about the good old day . only a couple of week ago , I find myself reminisce about the youth service we use to have in Worcestershire , particularly in Redditch , but the truth be that even the bus service I grow up with and depend on be frankly not that great . I be force to leave my home , like many of my constituent be now , to get to a job or to go on to the next level of education . and let ' s be honest , thing have only get bad as public transport subsidy become an easy target for local government cut during austerity . the shadow spokesman , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , be not in his place any more , but of all the number he list in his response to the Secretary of State , he fail to mention that the number of bus route in England fall by half during the last government — something that people who rely on bus be deeply frustrated about . in 1986 , the Thatcher Government promise that deregulation and privatisation would lead to low fare , more service and more passenger , but for town such as mine in Redditch and the surround village , the opposite happen . we lose service , fare go up , passenger disappear and community be leave behind . many of the route I once use as a teenager simply no long exist . that story be not unique . it be echo in town and village right across this country . why be we surprised that service struggle to retain number when those service be unreliable , expensive and fragmented ? how many time must our constituent explain to their boss why they be again late for work because the bus do not turn up , or apologise to a lecturer after miss the first part of a class because the timetable change at the last minute ? only last week , I be speak with local business who tell I they be desperate to recruit but can not find staff who can actually get to they . be we surprised ? be we surprised that our night - time economy — our bar , restaurant and live venue — be struggle , when people can not rely on a bus to get they home safely ? dare to have a drink after 7 o ' clock ? nope . dare to have a night out past 10 o ' clock ? nope . and at a time when patient be ask to go far for treatment as specialised service be centralise , we do not have the level of bus service require to ensure that the sick and the most vulnerable arrive on time , so many people simply pay for taxi they can not afford . in Worcestershire , the local bus system have become so complex , with different operator , inconsistent timetable and confusing route , that you need a phd in public transport to figure it out . luckily I have a constituent , Jack Fardoe , a local student expert , who I swear could be drop in any corner of the constituency and still find a route home , but most people simply give up . that be why I strongly welcome the opportunity this Bill present . remove the ban on local authority - own bus company and expand the power to franchise service be long overdue . it will give local authority like mine in Worcestershire the chance to take back control — it feel weird say that — and design bus service around people ' s need rather than a centrally govern timetable . it will mean that service can be plan properly with route that serve community , not shareholder , that be both urban and rural , and that match people ' s life and need . it mean that resident in Harvington , Dodderhill , Inkberrow and Astwood Bank could have a fit - for - purpose service that meet their actual need , so they do not have to waste four hour on a 10 - minute trip to the post office . People might once again rely on bus service to get where they need to be without the stress , without the guesswork and without the fear of be strand . my hon . friend be make a passionate speech in defence of bus and the importance of the Bill . do he share my disappointment that just like they miss the statement early on the strategic defence review , not a single Reform MP be here for this important debate ? do he take it in the same way that I do : that , just like defence , they just do not care about bus ? I do not want to second - guess the motivation of those on the Opposition Benches , which be quite sparse for a couple of different party , but perhaps it show their priority rather than anything else . finally , many people talk to I about want to play their role in reduce car journey — how wonderful would it be if they could do so by rely on their local bus network ? I wholeheartedly support the passage of the Bill . my constituent and our local business support it because this be our chance to build a bus network that genuinely work for everyone . will it be easy ? no . but surely we can replicate the success of our international partner in build an affordable and comprehensive bus network that be fit for the 21st century . this Bill do not apply to Northern Ireland , so some might wonder why I would bother to speak in the debate . the reason be very simple : the ramification could be positive for the whole of the United Kingdom because of the Government ' s vision within the Bill for decarbonise bus travel . there be presently 36 , 000 fossil fuel bus on our road in the United Kingdom . if the vision of the Government and of this Bill be secure , there be a lot of conversion and replacement to be do . if that be to happen , then I represent in my constituency the primary company that can help the Government towards that goal . I have the privilege of represent North Antrim , which of course have Wrightbus at its very heart . not only be it involve in electric bus ; it be a leader in hydrogen bus and can still produce diesel bus when need . I say to the Government that we have have many experience in this United Kingdom of miss opportunity for our own industry , not least in the bus sector and the electric sector where we have see chinese supply . if the Government be serious about this , let we build in a prioritisation for British build bus as a prerequisite to the refurbishment of the industry . the second thing I want to say to the Government be that with so many diesel bus across this nation , and with the expense of replace old with new , the middle option of refurbishing diesel bus as electric bus need to be grasp and explore . again , Wrightbus be a leader in reimage and resupplye electric into diesel , and that be a necessary step forward . give that in England , so many of these matter be devolve to mayoral area or local council , I ask the Government whether they be prepared to embrace metro mayor be able to pursue joint procurement not just for their own area , but work with other so that they can have the delivery that come from large order . that would benefit all concerned . I say to the Government that they have an opportunity not just to help the region that the Bill will directly affect , but to bring benefit to the whole United Kingdom . of course , it be not just Northern Ireland that be the primary bus manufacturer ; there be also large supplier in Scotland . there be an opportunity , and I trust that the opportunity will be grasp and that it will be underscore by the need to prioritise local United Kingdom build when replenish our bus service and our bus across the United Kingdom . the Bill will restore , for the first time in decade , the power of local authority across the country to create new , publicly own municipal bus company . when bus service be run in the public interest , they work well and they work for everyone . in Warrington South , we already know the difference that that can make . Warrington ' s Own Buses be a fantastic example of what a publicly own bus company operate under a Labour - run administration can achieve . it be roll out a fully electric fleet and continue to offer a flat fare of £ 2 for adult and £ 1 for under - 22 . it provide free travel for care leaver and maintain essential service that the private sector would walk away from . it be a bus company run for the public good , not for private profit . it be locally manage and accountable to the people it serve . it deliver social value , environmental gain and a surplus back to the local authority . we must protect municipal bus company that already serve their community and give local authority the freedom to use they as part of new franchising arrangement . I urge the Minister to ensure that the Bill and its guidance reflect the principle that where public ownership work , as it do in Warrington , we back it and build on it , because that be how we will reverse the long decline in our bus service under successive conservative government and start to deliver the modern , affordable , low - carbon transport system that our community deserve . it be great to see this Bill come to the Commons . I applaud its desire to improve the quality and availability of bus service . bus be at the core of our public transport system and be often wrongly neglect in favour of what some — although definitely not I — would describe as sexy and more alluring method of transport , such as tram and train . as we have hear , there be much that be good in the Bill — particularly the empowerment of local authority to operate their own service and the provision to implement service for socially necessary route — but it could do more to address the need of rural area , include through vat exemption for small public transport vehicle to encourage demand - responsive and community transport scheme . it could do more to help local authority to transition to net zero vehicle . as have be say , we should look again at restore the £ 3 bus fare cap to a £ 2 cap . in Oxfordshire , the county council feel that its bus partnership with operator be deliver improvement , particularly when it come to Oxford Bus Company and Thames Travel , which serve my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage . franchising have the potential to bring further improvement , although it be good that the Government have acknowledge that we do not necessarily need a one - size - fit - all approach . franchising will be viable only if local authority be give long - term funding certainty and support to acquire the expertise and capacity in their passenger transport team . we Liberal Democrats consider access to primary healthcare facility to be socially necessary route . in my constituency , the decision be make in the past few year to change the route of a bus go through the village of Harwell and into Didcot town centre . the change mean that people who live in Harwell can no long catch one bus to the GP surgery in Didcot , despite it be only 2 mile away . that be the sort of thing we need to consider . much about the current bus provision in my constituency be good . the integrated rail and bus terminal at Didcot Parkway enable a convenient interchange . there be decent bus frequency and journey time during the daytime between Didcot and Wantage , Grove , Oxford and Wallingford , and between Wallingford and Oxford . there be good example of partnership work between the major employment centre at Harwell campus and Milton Park and the Oxford Bus Company and Thames Travel . for example , Milton Park ' s £ 20 - a - year bus pass offer for people who work there be lead to measurable achievement in encourage modal shift . there be generally decent daytime village provision . but there be also much that need to improve . many village have no evening or Sunday service , particularly Stanford in the Vale , which have see significant housing growth . the bus that serve Culham campus , which the Government have propose as an AI growth zone , be meagre , with no evening or Sunday service . in the evening , service frequency drop on all route , mean that the integration between train and bus at Didcot work less well . reliability can also be patchy , particularly on route that involve Oxford , although that be mostly due to road congestion . I be delighted to be a member of the Transport Committee . in April , we visit Ireland to understand the reason for a significant increase in rural bus patronage , which increase fivefold between 2022 and 2024 . that be achieve through increase public funding and by engage community — particularly the local equivalent of town and parish council — in the design of route . the core principle be , as a bare minimum , to have the restoration of morning , early afternoon and early evening service — there be also late evening service in many instance to address the issue that be mention early in respect of pub — to create a viable alternative to drive . Ireland have set itself extremely ambitious target to grow its public transport youth share , from 8 % today to 19 % in 2030 . that would nearly match swiss level , which be the high in Europe . to achieve that , Ireland be invest large amount in high quality continuous bus corridor infrastructure in urban area , particularly in Dublin , and there be long - term plan for significant journey time reduction for inter - city train route to improve integration between bus and rail . as well as all that , people tell we that they be concerned about the social , environmental and economic objective that they be try to hit , rather than look simply at the cost in isolation . there be good example in the UK of the Ireland approach . I be on holiday in North Yorkshire in April , and North Yorkshire council have take over a route abandon by a private operator , use its own minibus — route 11 between Clitheroe and Settle . it offer a two - hourly service , and connect well with hourly train service between Clitheroe and Manchester . integration be critical to make public transport more accessible and attractive , as Switzerland have show . for those reason , the Government ' s integrated transport strategy be eagerly await , and will be an essential component in achieve well use of our public transport system , to the benefit of the economy , the environment , and reduce social exclusion . although the Bill go a long way towards improve bus service , there be a lot of thing that the liberal Democrats would like the Government to go far on , so that we can achieve our ambition for our transport system and ensure that it fulfil our social , economic and environmental need . build well bus be in my blood . grow up , my dad be chair of Barnsley passenger transport ; South Yorkshire have a world - class bus service , thank to our Labour county council . Labour know then , as we know now , that bus be for the people . the Conservatives and Reform just don ' t get it , as be demonstrate right now by those empty Opposition Benches . when they be in government , the Conservatives promise South Yorkshire a London - style transport system . instead , after 14 year of their neglect , our constituency have lose 53 % of its bus service , include the vital SL1 Supertram service link connect stocksbridge and Oughtibridge to Sheffield . the crucial number 57 and 57A be leave frequently run late , or fail to turn up at all , and the cut to the number 43 and 44 bus seriously affect my Dodworth constituent . the reality for our rural neighbourhood be even more stark , as constituent at my community event on transport tell I — village such as Bolsterstone be entirely cut off , Ingbirchworth lose bus connectivity after certain hour of the day , and the number 21 from Penistone to Barnsley be a route cry out for urgent improvement . our Labour Government know that bus be a lifeline that connect our family and community across Penistone and Stocksbridge . that be why I be proud that through our well bus Bill , we be empower community by ensure that bus serve local people rather than distant corporate interest . the Bill will remove barrier to public control and franchising , place decision over bus route , time and fare back into the hand of community . our Labour South Yorkshire Mayor , Oliver Coppard , have be drive change locally . his franchising consultation involve nearly 8 , 000 people , with 75 % strongly support it . the plan allow profit to be reinveste directly into well , more reliable service . that be why I be proud that our Transport Secretary have announce a landmark £ 1 billion fund to transform England ' s bus service , include £ 17 million specifically for South Yorkshire . this issue matter deeply to local people in my constituency . old and disabled constituent often tell I that they be leave strand , endure painfully long waiting time due to unreliable service , and face distressing situation include toilete issue and miss NHS appointment because bus simply fail to appear . that be unacceptable . that be why it be right that the Bill will deliver a more accessible and inclusive bus network , as well as introduce a £ 3 maximum cap on bus fare until 2026 , to encourage more people to use public transport . after year of broken promise , our Labour Government be take urgent action to rebuild Britain ' s bus service , end the postcode lottery and deliver a public transport system that be affordable , accessible and dependable , enable South Yorkshire to bring back lose bus route . I be committed to work with our labour mayor and the leader of Sheffield city council to secure the return of the quick , reliable SL1 supertram link and our local hopper bus . we need bold bus solution now , while we await the long - term infrastructure improvement I be advocate for , like the tram - train extension to stocksbridge via Oughtibridge , Wharncliffe Side and Deepcar . every single one of we have the right to use bus to travel to work and to see our family and friend . public transport be fundamental to achieve social justice , so that young and old , in our rural area — our town and village from Gilroyd to Grenoside , High Green to Hoylandswaine and Chapeltown to Ecclesfield — can depend on public transport for work , education and access to healthcare . I commend the Bill to the House . in Tunbridge Wells , bus be not a luxury : they connect schoolchildren to their classroom , the elderly to their community , carer to patient , and people unable to drive to job , shop and healthcare . when those link be weaken , life be disrupt and community start to fracture . if lockdown teach we anything , it be that social isolation be not just lonely , but incredibly damaging to mental health , and that have knock - on effect throughout our whole society . without a reliable bus service , people be stick at home . dependable public transport be not just a convenience ; it be an economic , social and health imperative . in my constituency , schoolchildren take the 267 from Horsmonden — a route cobble together by merge disconnected service . it wind slowly through village and regularly arrive late , mean that child often miss the start of school . this be a failure to support our child ' s education . worse , the price of a child ' s annual bus pass in Kent be extortionate : parent pay £ 550 per child for they to arrive late or not at all . now , with the £ 2 fare cap rise to £ 3 , a commuter make two journey a day , five day a week , will pay an extra £ 500 extra each year , on top of the cost of living crisis , with soar bill , rent and food price . that be why the Liberal Democrats have call for the fare cap to be reinstate at £ 2 . it be not just schoolchildren and commuter ; many elderly and low - income resident rely on bus to maintain independence and reduce social isolation , yet service be still be cut . in Tunbridge Wells , the 289 no long run on weekend , isolate resident from Southborough to Showfields . People can commute to work , they might be able to squeeze in a shop on a Tuesday and perhaps they could meet some friend for a drink on a Friday , but if they want to go out on Saturday , they be stuck . there be no bus and no connection — nowhere to go . for those who do not have time to shop or socialise during the week , it be tough luck . in Paddock Wood , a town of 7 , 500 people , there be no direct service to Pembury hospital on a Sunday . what message do that send to NHS worker and patient without car ? the lack of weekend service be a constituency - wide issue that disproportionately affect the elderly , disabled people and low - income family . it be not just inconvenient — it be unfair . rural village have see service slash . the 255 once connect Hawkhurst to Lamberhurst to Tunbridge Wells , but its removal now cut community off from rail , shop , pharmacy , GPs and each other . there be no bus at all to Ashurst , a village five mile from Tunbridge Wells , the near shopping and rail centre . parent drop child to neighbouring village to catch the bus to school , but still pay £ 500 for the privilege . my constituent be wait for bus that never come , or watch their route disappear . over 25 % of passenger in Kent be dissatisfied with their bus service and 27 % of bus be either late or cancel . that be why I welcome the provision in the Bill to empower local authority to protect socially necessary route — those that get people to school , healthcare or work . such measure be absolutely essential , but we must go far ; we need to restore and expand service to tackle frustration and isolation . I welcome the £ 23 million pledge by the Government to Kent county council for bus service improvement , but that be under the Conservatives . reform be now run Kent county council , but frankly I would not trust it to run a bath . its priority be not public service . last night we see the announcement of a doge — a department of government efficiency — start at Kent county council . that be a bit of a joke when we consider that the new Reform administration decide to cancel the first iteration of the audit and governance committee ; one assume that would fulfil the same function as a doge . we must have proper local consultation to ensure that the £ 23 million be spend appropriately and responsibly by the Reform administration in Kent . with the right investment and priority , focus on child , the elderly and healthcare , we can bring in a network that bring people together and do not leave they behind . with a birthday contribution , I call Alex Mayer . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think bus be brilliant , so I be delighted that this Bill be come forward on 2 June , because , as you say , it be my birthday . I think it be the Minister ' s way of wish I many happy return — and single also ! for too long , bus have be in decline . it be great that the Minister have be clear for month that he want to fix that and that a one - size - fit - all approach will not work . December ' s guidance on varied franchising approach be excellent , and I welcome how the Bill simplify franchising , as well as the Government ' s review of enhance partnership and the plan in the Bill to strengthen they . we need — and I believe that this Bill will help to deliver — tailor , practical option that can work for people in every kind of town , village and city . we can already see some eps deliver that change , with real , substantive control over network design . from 24 / 7 route in Portsmouth and a 50 % zero - emission fleet in Leicester to profit - share arrangement and repaint bus that build identity and loyalty and encourage interchange , EPs already encourage innovation and partnership . in the west of England , " birthday bus " offer resident free travel across 500 square mile throughout the whole of their birthday month . that be a great gift and , more importantly , a successful scheme that target non - bus user in order to embed long - term behavioural change . that happen without the need for new legislation , but with the need for vision . I will always call for great public investment in bus , but I be realistic about the economic pickle that we have be leave in by the Conservatives . if we want sustainable network , we have to grow farebox revenue . the Department ' s bus service improvement plan guidance be absolutely spot on here , correctly make the vital point , in line with the national bus strategy , that : " almost all social , economic and environmental objective for the role of the bus … can be boil down to the simple , practical and measurable objective to grow bus patronage . " with that in mind , might I suggest the odd tweak to the Bill to well reflect that spirit ? we have talk about clause 1 and the purpose of improve " performance , accessibility and quality " . that be good , but my constituent certainly want quantity as well as quality . perhaps " availability " could be add to focus mind on grow patronage . clause 11 have some fantastic language about consult disabled " user or prospective user " of bus . I think the term " prospective user " could be deploy elsewhere — for instance , the Transport Act 2000 require consultation ahead of franchising with only " those representative of user of local service " , not prospective user . clause 30 give the Minister power to set standard for bus stop to improve safety and accessibility . that be great , but why stop there ? would the Minister not also like to have some standard aim at increase ridership ? accord to the campaign for Better Transport , poorly maintain bus stop and bus shelter put off 23 % of people from use bus . I have look at clause 23 , on grant . I wonder whether local transport authority could be incentivise to design grant to increase passenger number ? it be clear that we need a virtuous circle of more passenger and more fare income , not the spiral of decline that we have see previously . that bring I briefly to socially necessary route , which be important but mainly unprofitable . I absolutely agree with the Minister that the new list he be introduce will bring some certainty , but I wonder whether alongside that list , lta could also be require to produce a transparent and rank formula for how they calculate whether a service be socially necessary , which they could use in turn to allocate funding . that would rightly give local leader flexibility , but would also allow resident to see what be be prioritise and why , and where the cut - off for taxpayer support lie . if we also include the number of journey in that formula — if that be make a criterion — it could allow resident to save a bus by use it . it would prevent list from become fossilise and reduce the risk that those who shout loud get the well service , with funding determine by datum , not decibel . fundamentally , lta should not be pigeonhole as a place of stick - plaster solution ; success will lie in a network - wide approach . finally , I know that the Minister do not plan to create any new passenger transport executive , but I believe that — just as we be bring track and train together — there be a real case for bring bus and bus lane together , particularly as more strategic transport authority be create . this be a really good Bill , and I think it be a great birthday present . I declare an interest as a long - time passenger on Eastbourne ' s 1 , 1A , LOOP , Dotto train and 12 bus route , the latter of which — with its view of Birling Gap — be vote one of the UK ' s top 10 most beautiful bus route by passenger . as the birthplace of the world ' s old municipal bus service in 1903 , we in Eastbourne expect the very good local bus service , and in the light of all these bus - base asset and tradition , we Eastbournians be ambitious for this Bill to go even far in support operator to improve the reliability of our service . our local driver and staff , such as Gary Womble Bartlett and Loreleye , be legend , but operational issue that be out of their control and poor regulation be leave many resident wait some time for delayed bus and , indeed , bus that do not show up at all . only recently , Valerie Lee get in touch to tell I that she have be force to scale steep hill back home because her no . 4 bus be a no - show . I want to highlight the especially profound impact that unreliable bus service can have on those who be neurodiverse . this be what Ann , whose son be autistic , say to I via email : " my son have recently contact I to say that the 14 . 54 bus his school have agree for he to catch each day do not turn up at all . the bus after that be also late . he be extremely stressed and be melt down with the lateness of get home and frustrate by the protract wait for his bus home . I ' ve have to leave he to cry it out , as intervention will just exacerbate how he feel . he be shout , swear and bang his head against the wall — it ' s really not a great situation . he be so overwhelmed and so stressed , Josh ; it ' s really dreadful here right now . he sit an English Language GCSE this morning and all he want be to be back home as soon as possible . for a now - hourly service , these extensive delay be totally unacceptable and I must again highlight the impact this have on our vulnerable community , especially SEN child such as my son . " I hope the Government and operator hear that loud and clear . poor bus service and connectivity hit another vulnerable group in our society : patient . Eastbourne district general hospital , where I be bear , have lose core service to the Conquest hospital in Hastings over the year . that hospital be 20 mile away , require at least two bus and the good part of a day to get there and back around an appointment . a hospital trust in nearby Kent have collaborate with operator to create a direct bus route between two of its hospital , and although ultimately I want — and our hospital deserve — core service reinstate , in the meantime we deserve a Kent - style hospital bus at the very least . I urge the Government to upgrade their Bill to make such route a reality . my hon . friend talk about collaboration across border and county council . I have an issue in my constituency because of a proposal to close the GP practice in Westbourne , but there be no bus service for all the patient in Westbourne to get to Emsworth , which be over the border into Hampshire county council . do he agree that there should be provision in the Bill to ensure that local authority work together ? People do not see the local authority border . indeed , what be happen in Westbourne sound very similar to what be happen in Eastbourne . I implore the Government and local operator to ensure that people ' s health need be bake into the Bill . we owe it to all our constituent , particularly the most vulnerable , to improve bus service for local people . I stand ready to work with the Government , our local authority , our NHS trust , local operator and , of course , passenger to make that happen . I welcome the Bill that the Secretary of State introduce this evening . it have the potential to transform public transport for community across the country , especially in South Dorset . in town and village across my constituency , passenger — or indeed , would - be passenger — rely on bus to go about their daily life . for many , they be the only affordable way to get to work , school , hospital , the train station or the town centre , or to see family and friend . grow up , I take the bus 10 mile up the road from my home in Wyke to sixth form most day . it be a reliable service , which mean that I could get to class , so I know that reliable bus matter in South Dorset . yet in recent year , we have see route cut , service reduce and the reliability of service deteriorate , leave many people feel isolated and unable to access essential amenity and service . far too often , as have be mention , private bus operator seem to have put profit before passenger . constituent in Winfrith Newburgh , Lulworth and the surround village say that they face poorly connect bus service to Wareham and Wool train station , make it difficult to access the national rail network . even more troubling , there be no direct bus link to hospital in Poole or Dorchester , leave many constituent without transport to essential healthcare . in Crossways in my constituency , although some service exist , there be grow concern that the current bus network will not meet the demand of new housing development . we can not build home without build the bus infrastructure that be need to connect those new home with nearby town and service . across the Grove on Portland , there be no long a bus service at all . the Grove community have repeatedly tell I that they feel left behind and cut off from the rest of Portland and nearby Weymouth . that have be hugely isolate and have a huge impact on the ground . finally , in southill , cut to bus service have have a devastating effect , especially on elderly constituent who now face real isolation . for some there , it have become almost impossible to get to Weymouth town centre or to see a gp . in each of those community , we need a change of direction . the Bill give we the tool to do that and to end the postcode lottery of Britain ' s break bus . my hon . Friend mention his elderly constituent , and I have similar issue in my constituency . People be tell I that they can not even do their shopping anymore because of bus cut in Shildon . one person feel that she will have to leave the village that she have live in for decade because she be lose her eyesight . do my hon . friend agree that as local authority get that control , it be important that they use it to look at people ' s need and to put on bespoke service , such as to shop and hospital ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s overview . the new bus service that council look to put in place must link people with service such as GP appointment . with that in mind , I hope that the new power grant to local authority such as Dorset council under the Bill will enable they to franchise their bus service , and crack down on antisocial behaviour and fare evasion . I also hope that the council can make bus and bus stop much more accessible , particularly to passenger live with disability . from now on , I want the future of bus service in Winfrith , Lulworth , Crossways , the Grove and southill to be define by local need and local passenger rather than profit . the Bill will enable Dorset council to work with passenger in each of those community to deliver bus service that be finally fit for purpose . fundamentally , the Government ' s reform will support integrate travel , help to link rural area with large town and essential service such as hospital and , in particular , our national rail network . I have be campaign for a reliable , affordable bus route to Bournemouth airport . as a fellow Dorset MP , do my hon . friend recognise the need for a dedicated service to the airport every 30 minute , especially as it increase the number of flight that it will be handle ? I be happy to support my hon . friend ' s campaign , and I will be meet he shortly to discuss how I can well do so . give that Bournemouth be the airport near to my constituency , my constituent would certainly benefit from that bus connection . I be desperate for the Bill ' s reform to be introduce as rapidly as possible across South Dorset , which be why I plan to write to the leader of Dorset council to encourage the council to take advantage of the new power as soon as possible . I look forward to sit down with its official to finally improve bus service for the community in Winfrith , Lulworth , Crossways , the Grove and southill . I know that other bus passenger and community throughout my constituency will be look to the council to use its new power to improve bus service in their neighbourhood . we can not keep treat public transport , especially our bus , as an afterthought . for community across South Dorset , Labour ' s bus service Bill provide a chance to finally reconnect and to deliver good - quality bus service to many more passenger . it be time to crack on . bus be often see as a service for the elderly , and they be vital for old resident , especially in rural area where isolation pose a serious threat to health . bus can be a social lifeline , but in those rural community they be also a vital connection to education , healthcare and work . the number of bus journey in Devon have fall by 40 % since 2015 , and in my large rural constituency many community have be leave behind by unreliable , infrequent or inadequate bus service . many village have no bus service at all , while other feel lucky to get one a day . the Stagecoach Gold bus run between Paignton and Plymouth . Stagecoach withdraw the early morning service last year follow consultation with local transport authority , because low passenger number mean that the service be no long commercially viable . it may not have be " standing room only " , but cut that service be just not good enough for those who start their shift before sunrise and keep our community run . one bus driver be leave with no choice but to buy a car to get to work , as he would have lose his job if he could not get to Totnes by 7 am . another constituent say : " these change disproportionately affect key worker , particularly those in sector such as healthcare , retail and hospitality , who depend on early or late bus service to commute . many of these worker have few if any alternative transport option . these individual , likely among the low pay in our community , will face increase financial and logistical challenge as a result of these cut . " when Stagecoach relocate the Dartmouth bus depot to Plymouth , the early - morning 92 route be cut . student could not get to college , and local driver lose their job . Stagecoach also cut the 17 route in Brixham , so no visitor , holidaymaker or hospitality worker can get home after 6 . 30 pm . that be hardly a late night out . I welcome the principle behind the Bill . it be right to give more power to local authority , and it be right to acknowledge that socially necessary route must be protect . however , the Bill must go far if it be truly to deliver the " bus revolution " that the Government claim . local authority must have the power and the funding to keep service run , and a duty to implement socially necessary service . this be not just about commute to work ; young people in South Devon depend on bus to get to college , but also to access that crucial first Saturday job — to build independence , to gain skill , and to put something real on their cv . how be those who live in a small village with no shop , no caf é and no reliable bus service mean to get any experience if they can not travel ? this be vital to the Government ' s skill agenda . a well - fund and reliable rural bus network do not just support today ' s economy ; it build tomorrow ' s workforce . we have see in Ireland what be possible : rural bus use have increase fivefold since 2018 , because the Irish Government invest in rural transport and create new service where they be need . that be the kind of ambition we need . let we grow our economy by revolutionise rural transport with regular , clean , green bus . I wholeheartedly support give real franchising power to all local authority , with simple , integrated funding and a focus on net zero bus , but let we not pretend that those power alone be enough . council need the funding , the staff and the backing to use they . raise the fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 be a false economy . for a student or someone on minimum wage , it be a real barrier to access . the cap must be restore and make permanent if we be serious about affordability , ridership and iron out inequality . I would also like to see local authority , such as Devon county council , have the power to introduce integrated transport pass like the one we use in London , so that people in rural area can get the bus to a station , and then take a train , in a join - up , cost - effective and user - friendly way . this Bill have potential , but it must be back with the ambition and investment that rural community like mine desperately need . bus be for everyone — young or old , and in city , in village or even on Dartmoor — and this House must deliver an ambitious , modern system that reflect that . I will say at the outset that I will not use my full five minute . I will not take intervention , so hopefully more people can give their speech , too . bus be a vital route to connect people with each other and with opportunity , which be why this Bill , which will improve bus service , be so important . in the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency , our story be very mixed . for those who live near a route serve by a Metrobus , a Y bus or a t1 , it be usually pretty quick to get into Bristol city centre , but problem arise when try to get across our town and village on the outskirt of the city , where many of our place of work and study be base , as be many of our love one . for many people , include those unable to drive , get to Southmead hospital , which be just next door in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , be all but impossible use public transport , because , like our community , it be outside the city centre . it be not uncommon for what should be a 10 - minute drive to take around an hour on a bus , either because of the route or because one need to change bus at the University of the West of England or Bristol Parkway . often these stop be in the wrong direction and the travel time be simply not realistic , so people do not feel that they can leave their car at home , even when they want to . as a frequent bus user , I know how frustrating all this can be when , through no fault of our own , we be make late because of a ghost bus that do not show up , and we be leave figure out what to do at the side of the road . we have also have route change , include to the no . 73 . instead of take people to the mall at Cribbs Causeway , where many people work and shop , the bus now stop partway there — and these be the part of our community that have regular access to a bus . we now have the bizarre scenario in which resident in Winterbourne be finally be serve by a bus , but only because bus be be redirect through the village while the motorway bridge be be rebuild . I be glad that our new Labour West of England Mayor join my long - stand call , and those of the community , for a proper solution for people in Winterbourne . I be also incredibly glad that our new Labour Government be give local leader and community the opportunity to take back control of local bus through this Bill , and I be proud to campaign for that ahead of the election . I encourage fellow resident to fill in my late survey about their experience of local bus . after year of Tory under - investment nationally and a real lack of understanding of how important bus be , vital route have be lose , but I be optimistic that if other region can do this — just look at Manchester , Liverpool , South Yorkshire and West Yorkshire , which be all at different point in their journey but take great stride forward — so can we . we must , because people in our community deserve the same opportunity as anyone else , anywhere else . for many year , rural bus service have be die a slow death by a thousand cut . in my constituency of Horsham , we have lose about a third of our service since 2010 , and funding have fall by as much as 43 % in some area . this be how it work : we cut the timetable , which mean few people use the service , so we cut the timetable again — rinse and repeat . in many village , it be simply impossible to live without a car . even if we do put a bus service back into those village , no one would use it because the only people who live there be car user . it be no wonder that economic inactivity in rural community be nearly 2 . 5 % high than in urban centre . good job and an education be literally out of reach . how can we reverse this downward spiral ? it be clear that if local authority step back and rely on commercial operator to decide route by themselves , it be not go to work , but that be exactly what we be see in West Sussex . commercial operator have to keep to their timetable or face a fine , but to achieve punctuality on the no . 17 route mean that the village of Partridge Green have to be drop altogether at certain time of day . pensioner now have to walk over a mile to the near stop or pay for expensive taxi . resident be not consult about the cut , and they find out only a few week in advance , with no time to make other arrangement . half the village turn out to a church meeting to protest , and if only we could have harness that enthusiasm in time , we might have save the service , but of course it be too late . now the same thing be happen all over again , with cut to the no . 63 bus through another village , Slinfold , which will make it impossible for local commuter to link to Horsham station . again the excuse be punctuality , again there be no consultation and again resident have just a few week ' notice . this get to the heart of why our rural bus service have be in terminal decline . county council , the body we would expect to have resident ' interest at heart , can all too easily hide behind a commercial bus operator and say that it be all out of their control . no one want to admit responsibility . we all keep say that we want to take traffic off the road and cut pollution , but in reality , local council such as West Sussex have be preside over a policy of manage decline . will the new Bill do enough to reverse it ? the Bill certainly move in the right direction by empower local authority to franchise route , run their own bus company and trial demand - responsive transport scheme , which be good building block for a more flexible , responsive system . however , when I look at West Sussex , it be clear that these freedom by themselves will not be enough , even if there be more dynamic leadership in the council . set up its own bus service be a high - risk , high - investment strategy for a council . I can see how big urban centre may have the wherewithal to take advantage of these new right , but more rural authority such as my own be already on budgetary life support and there be no way they can take on such a gamble . this be go to take something more from the Government , and that something be more funding to kick - start a revolution . so let we fund bus service properly , empower local council to make the right decision and ensure that affordable , accessible transport remain a lifeline for all our community . if I have £ 1 for every time someone mention to I that bus be not go to where they need to go or when they need to go there , I could probably afford to restore most of the bus service we have lose in High Peak over the last decade . under the Conservatives , thousand of vital bus service disappear and local community have be leave powerless , with no tool to hold the operator to account . in High Peak , we have lose — wait for it — the 202 , 236 , 239 , X18 , X57 , 61a and , recently , the 271 , leave many student and commuter where I live in Hope valley unable to get to work or college in Sheffield . this trend have continue throughout Derbyshire , where there be a reduction of over 5 million mile — do not check my math — in the distance drive by bus between 2010 and 2023 . to put that in context , it be the same number of mile as travel to the moon and back 10 time . however , this problem be more than statistic ; it be life ruin . I think of the elderly lady in Whaley Bridge who be able to get to her monthly hospital appointment only thank to the kindness of her neighbour , the assistant manager in Glossop who could not take a promotion to be a manager in Buxton because the 61 bus do not run late enough for they to be able to get home , and the lady in Buxton who love the theatre but often have to leave show in Sheffield early because she can not get home any other way . the first campaign I run as a newly select , significantly less grey , candidate be for student in High Peak to be able to get free bus travel to college in Greater Manchester like their classmate over the border . work with Claire Ward , Labour ' s East Midlands Mayor , we be able to save High Peak family hundred of pound a year and ensure that cost be not a consideration for young people when decide what course to do at college and what career they dream of do . these challenge also present themselves with tourism in High Peak . in part thank to a tiktok craze to photograph sunset and sunrise over Mam Tor , community where I live in High Peak have be plague by illegal parking . I be co - ordinate a response to these issue with local stakeholder , such as the Peak park , police , and council . a key tranche of what we need to do be deliver well bus service that be integrate with local train service . the Bill will transfer power away from Westminster and empower local community to take the decision necessary for our commuter to get to work , our student to get to college , our vulnerable to access the healthcare they need , and our honeypot village to manage tourism sustainably . for too long , people in High Peak and Derbyshire have be let down by a Tory Government and a Tory council who only deliver cut and isolation . this well bus Bill do exactly what it say on the tin . I look forward to well bus service deliver by our local transport authority use these power across High Peak . for my Cramlington and Killingworth constituency , like for so many other as we have hear today , bus be vital . they be often the only source of public transport . they be essential for access work , health appointment or see family and friend . that be why I launch my big bus survey early this year , hear from hundred of resident . the response be clear : too many people feel let down due to unreliable and inaccessible transport . that be especially true for people with disability , family and old people . under the previous government , far too many route be withdraw , reduce or make less direct . I think I would share just a few experience from my resident . in Holywell and Seaton Delaval , they speak of the withdrawal of the no . 19 , which they rely on to reach local shop , healthcare and social activity . in Cramlington , local people describe long wait for bus and no service at all on Sundays . many share concern that while service into city centre exist , there be a lack of connectivity between local area . one constituent tell I that while her workplace be a mere 10 - minute drive away , take the bus require travel in the opposite direction first , double the journey time . some tell I they work from home instead of the office more often , because they just do not want to face the bus . another , when their car break down , take a week ' s leave rather than have to face the bus . resident in East Hartford tell I that replacement service sometimes skip stop entirely without warn . in Shiremoor , another resident tell I that to travel just 2 . 5 mile they have to take a metro and then a bus because no direct route exist , massively increase cost . in Wideopen — where I be from and grow up — and Seaton Burn , resident share how few service come through the village compare with a decade ago . in another case , a resident tell I that rather than face the delay of the bus , they run two mile to the near metro to avoid be late for jury service . in Backworth , people describe frustration at the lack of regular service , while other express a desire to switch from car use for environmental reason , but they simply can not without reliable information , real - time update and dependable timetable . the Bill could not be more timely . for too long , too many people in my area have be let down by bus operator favour profit for commercial company over deliver the public transport local people need and deserve . I share these story because they be important . every time the bus do not turn up , every time the route be cut back , every time it do not stop , it chip away at people ' s independence , with every act strip local people of their dignity bit by bit , force they to either rely on other or to do without . I glad that this Government will now to shift that balance , give local people a great say in their transport . People across the town and village of my constituency have tell I that the system be not work and have to change . bus in my area be a lifeline , not a luxury . I be pleased , on behalf of those constituent , that we be take action to ensure they get the service they deserve . frankly , they can not come soon enough . it be highly unusual for major legislation on bus to be introduce so early in the life of a government ; in fact , I think it may be unprecedented . bus be by far the most used mean of public transport , but they have traditionally receive less political attention than other mode , and Ministers deserve great credit for secure this legislation so early in this Parliament . it be difficult today to capture the extent of the hostility to bus regulation that exist in Government a little more than a decade ago , when the spirit that animate the Transport Act 1985 be still a move force in transport debate . although franchising could boast a successful record in London , there be visceral and ideological opposition to extend it . the coalition Government be actively hostile . minister even seek to exclude area that pursue franchising scheme , then know as quality contract , from receive funding — an echo of the bad old day when the Thatcher Government threaten to strip the west midland passenger transport authority of metro development funding unless its municipal bus operation be sell off . that lingering attitude change when George Osborne strike a devolution deal with Richard Leese and the late Howard Bernstein that include franchising in Greater Manchester . that be less a turning point than a complete reversal . in fact , it be widely rumour at the time that the Department for Transport do not know what the Treasury have agree . that welcome revolution in thought , which find expression in the Bus Services Act 2017 , be , however , imperfect and incomplete . franchising power be make available only to mayoral authority that be pick and choose in Westminster . the Act contain a delayed and vindictive sting : clause 22 , which seek to bar new municipal operation , despite the great success of survive municipal operator in place such as Nottingham and Reading . reputedly , the clause be a very late addition to the drafting of the 2017 Act — so late that it have not be quality assure by Government lawyer . indeed , Conservative Ministers be force to concede that the clause would not prevent an authority from " acquire share in exist bus company " , nor would it prevent the repurposing of an exist company that be unconnected to bus service . despite the flaw in its drafting , clause 22 , which be bear out of spitefulness and political posturing , have have a chilling effect on authority that might have otherwise pursue a municipal operation . this Bill remedy both failing , and we will have well bus service and well law as a result of its passing . there be other welcome provision in the Bill . it will make it easy for operator and authority to tackle antisocial behaviour and misogyny . it will make service more accessible for disabled passenger and accelerate the transition to clean , low - emission vehicle . all these measure will make a positive difference in my constituency , which sit at the intersection of Birmingham and the county of Worcestershire . it be a place where there be relatively low level of car ownership , where a lack of audiovisual announcement make it hard for some people to use the bus and where connection between our neighbourhood be the poor relation to route into the city centre . in May , under the leadership of the Mayor of the West Midlands , Richard Parker , the combine authority make the welcome decision to bring bus service back under public accountability and direction . that will enable well timetable , integrate ticketing and service that well connect the area of high unemployment with the business park where new job be be create . it will also mean new power over fare . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not ; I be sorry . I do not wish to deny another Member time to speak . a few day ago , under the version of the nBus scheme agree by the previous conservative mayor , Andy Street , operator exercise their legal right to hike seasonal fare , which they do by 8 . 6 % . low - pay bus commuter deserve well , and that be why we need the new power that Labour be introduce in this Bill to well protect passenger from such increase in the cost of living . one of the great pleasure of follow other member of the Transport Committee be that they have make point about the forthcoming inquiry report much more eloquently than I can . I hope that that report be publish in time to shape the final drafting and implementation of this important Bill , which I look forward to support through its later stage . Shrewsbury have wait 10 year for a Labour Government to bring forward this Bill . over the course of the last Government , our county of Shropshire lose over 63 % of our bus route , mean that two out of three bus have be withdraw . that be due to the savage privatisation that force bus company to pursue profit over passenger . for my resident , this mean that bus route be strip away from village and they be now cut off from vital health and education service , work and leisure . it mean that we have no bus after 6 . 30 pm anywhere in my constituency . it also mean that we have no bus anywhere on a Sunday . in fact , in Shrewsbury we have not see a Sunday bus for 10 year . I do not know how familiar member be with my wonderful , beautiful constituency , but Shrewsbury be a market town of 65 , 000 resident . it be the county town of Shropshire and host health , public and cultural service for 19 market town and 400 village , yet we be the only county town in this country not to have a Sunday bus service . it be a disgrace , and it be a painful symptom of the impact that the last Government have on public service in town like mine up and down the country . the lack of evening service put severe constraint on our night - time economy and the potential for resident to get home safely after work , travel or an evening out . not everyone can afford to run a car or be medically able to drive . the population in Shropshire be nine year old than the national average , so many old resident have give up their vehicle and find themselves strand in the evening and at weekend . in some village , they be leave completely socially isolated . one of my constituent , Christine Hart , be in her 70 , live in a residential suburb of Shrewsbury , and be a very active volunteer in her local community . follow her knee replacement operation last month , she become reliant on bus . she could not be happy with our new on - demand electric minibus in her area fund via the Government ' s bus service improvement plan . she be such a convert that she plan to keep use they even after her recovery . however , she explain to I that although she could get to a 5 pm doctor ' s appointment , she have no way of get home because there be no evening bus in Shrewsbury . I be regularly contact by employee who tell I that by the time they finish work at 6 pm , they can not get across to the bus station to catch the last bus home . we be prevent resident get to and from employment , put a real block on economic growth . this be corroborate by my local chamber of commerce , which run a quarterly business survey with its business . we receive regular feedback every single quarter that the primary barrier to recruitment be the lack of bus service that run early enough and late enough to support people — young people in particular — to access employment opportunity . my sorry tale from Shrewsbury be of a beautiful place that be very often cut off from the community and individual without a car , and the last thing we want to encourage be even more congestion in our historic town centre . we must try to rebuild our public transport system , which be dismantle by the Conservatives during their time in office . they should hang their head in shame for every one of the 5 , 000 mile in bus route that they cancel in town like mine , for every youngster who can not access a job opportunity , for every pensioner who can not visit their family on a Sunday , and for every village cut off from public service . ten year be a long time to wait to be reconnecte to the outside world , but the good people of Shrewsbury will today be celebrate as we debate this Bill , which will give back to local authority the power to run service for passenger , not just for profit . the Bill have a clause that allow for socially necessary route to link up medical , educational or public service to the local community at stop and time that empower they , not just the operator . by change the law to move away from exclusive privatisation , we can move forward to a responsive , community - lead model for our public transport authority . the Bill will not just improve life in Shrewsbury , but transform life , aspiration and the wellbeing of my resident , who have wait a decade for a Labour Government to give we back our Sunday service . I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill . as a public transport user , I know that our bus do not always work for the people and community that they purport to serve . for many of we , a privatised system with only a handful of company run route and set fare have lead to rise ticket price , without the reliability to go with they . London ' s relatively well - run and highly regulate system have be an outlier in Britain until recent year — that is , until we have have some Labour metro mayor , who have make change . despite Huddersfield have have the busy bus station in West Yorkshire before the pandemic , its bus service decline by more than a fifth between 2010 and 2023 . this decline be not just a local issue ; it reflect a wide pattern of regional under - investment . the historical disparity between London and the north on transport spending be stark . in 2017 , London receive £ 944 per person on transport spending , while Yorkshire and the Humber receive just £ 335 . if the north have receive the same amount per person as London between 2008 and 2018 , it would have have £ 66 billion more spend on it . the Bill be long overdue as a starting point to turn thing around . a few week ago , at a coffee morning with local resident in Netherton , the key issue raise be bus . inconsistent timetable , unreliable service and the withdrawal of the local village route have make it hard for people to get to work or appointment or to see family and friend . I therefore welcome the Government ' s investment in transport in our region , include £ 36 million for West Yorkshire ' s bus . as part of that investment , I be glad to see the recent launch of the fully integrate Weaver transport network — a nod to our textile heritage — by our West Yorkshire Mayor , Tracy Brabin . we know that funding alone be not enough , however . we need a system that give local area the power to design service around local need . the Bill will take we in the right direction : in West Yorkshire , we will see the first bus go under public control from 2027 . it will allow more flexible and locally responsive integrate mass transport network and we will finally get a tram in West Yorkshire , which be fantastic . it be worth recognise local employer such as Camira in Huddersfield . when you sit on a bus , Madam Deputy Speaker , the fabric on it be likely to have come from a textile firm in Huddersfield . Camira ' s fabric be use on bus , tram , train and the London tube , which show how transport investment support not just passenger , but skilled job in town like mine . I want to mention a couple more thing , include safety . for many people , access bus station , bus stop or bus at night be very difficult , so ensure that we have CCTV and safe travel officer will be really important . we also know that there have be inequity in bus service cut , which have be deep in low - income area than in more affluent area . that be not just unfair , but bad for growth , bad for health and bad for quality . the Bill be a foundation for get the implementation right . with strong local power , fair funding and a focus on equity , we can rebuild trust in our bus network and create a system that truly work for everyone . I call the shadow Minister . this have be a really enjoyable debate . one of the great benefit of wind up be that we be force to sit and listen to absolutely everything . Most speech I enjoy , but there be one or two that I do not . it be up to hon . member to work out whether I be talk about they . the contribution to this debate have be enlightening , because they have expose some clear difference of economic and political philosophy among the party . the Liberal Democrats , one after another , argue for improved service , particularly rural service , but be less clear about how to fund they . on the Labour Benches , there be huge optimism and enthusiasm under the perhaps mistaken belief that the Bill , in itself , will improve passenger service for their constituent . the truth be that when we look at the term of the Bill , it be clear that the focus of its reform be not primarily on improve bus service for passenger — quite the contrary . in the other place , Labour whip its peer to vote against what be now clause 1 , which make the improvement of the performance , accessibility and quality of bus passenger service in Great Britain the purpose of the Bill . I send birthday wish to the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) and make a plea on her behalf for her whip not to be too harsh on she for her support of clause 1 . perhaps she be unaware that it be oppose by her own party in the other place . why do the Government not want to put performance improvement at the heart of the Bill ? because that be not the Bill ' s primary intention . labour ' s true focus be set out in its background briefing to the King ' s Speech . it be about " accelerate the bus franchising process … build on the success of … public bus service still in operation . " no mention there of passenger , performance , improvement or cost control ; it be the structure of the bus provider that have excite the Government . they intend to increase the number of municipal bus company , presumably because they think that civil servant be well equip to run efficient bus company than private sector operator . I can see that , in some example , that be possible . I speak to the manage director of the Warrington bus company last week and I be impress by the performance figure , although they be very unusual . however , the Government ' s faith do not translate into confidence that the new municipal bus company could win a competitive tender , as the Bill , perhaps inadvertently , allow local authority to do away with competition . extraordinarily , as currently draft , it would allow any local authority to first create a new municipal bus company and then grant itself a franchise , without any competitive process . if that be deliberate , it really would be the triumph of socialist political ideology : that the state be somehow well . franchising be an alternative solution , potentially allow great co - ordination of transport provision , but it come at a cost . it take commercial risk away from the bus operator and put it in the hand of local authority . it require dynamic contract , design and management skill . it be necessarily complex and , if do badly , risk the removal of the innovative power of the private sector , replace it with state direction . let I say again what my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) make abundantly clear at the opening of this debate : we do not oppose bus franchising in principle . we support it , in fact , when it deliver value for money and , above all , when it improve service for passenger . but what we have see from the Government today be a refusal to engage with the very real risk embed in the Bill . the exist 2017 legislation have be refer to more than once during the debate . it recognise that mayoral combine authority have the scale and resource need to manage the development of franchise model . however , even here , political ineptitude and mayoral hubris can make a mess of thing . Andy Burnham ' s Bee Network have be tout as the socialist example to follow — [ interruption . ] I hear it from the Government Front Bench right now , but let we have a look at what have actually happen in Manchester . bus that cost the private sector £ 180 , 000 cost Andy Burnham £ 220 , 000 . bus depot that cost the private sector less than £ 4 million cost Andy Burnham more than £ 12 million — in fact , nearly £ 13 million . private sector bus company train sufficient staff for their need while Andy ' s team , have fail to secure enough train driver , be in the absurd position of have to pay more than 400 agency staff to drive their bus at inflated hourly rate and with accommodation cost on top . the cost to the taxpayer be estimate at £ 17 . 4 million a year and rise . who be focus on cost reduction in Manchester ? well , it be not the bus company — it be not their job to reduce cost any more . in fact , the big the overall contract cost , the more profit they make . require they to give above - inflation pay rise to unionised staff , as Andy Burnham have do ? no problem . it go on the bill , and they get a profit percentage on top . require they to donate to charity , as Andy Burnham have do ? no problem . just add it to the bill , and get a profit percentage on top . profit go up as the size of the contract increase . while Labour claim to have increase value for money because of the much - touted reduce profit percentage , the taxpayer be quietly fleece . this be the doublespeak of Labour ' s " value for money " . what be the real cost of labour ' s return to " on the Buses " ? have Andy Burnham stick to his own business plan , the Bee Network should have be profitable after the transition period , but because of his self - aggrandise hubris and statist ineptitude , the loss for this year alone be forecast to be £ 226 million and it be likely to rise far in the year ahead — that is £ 1 billion in under four year . and that be in a mayoral combine authority , although admittedly a Labour one . have this work to increase traveller number ? between 2022 and 2024 , Greater Manchester have experience a 34 . 34 % increase in ridership , accord to Government figure , but let ' s look at my county of Norfolk , which have a Conservative county council : its enhanced partnership have increase ridership over the same period by 43 % . let ' s look at Essex — again , a Conservative - run council with an enhanced partnership , which have increase ridership by 52 . 3 % . in the wide context , Greater Manchester have in fact underperformed . why do the Bill remove the crucial safeguard that ensure franchising be roll out by authority with at least a notional capacity to deliver ? why have Labour walk away from give the Secretary of State the power to intervene if the bad happen and service fail ? why do the Bill not require a competitive tender process when local authority decide to run their own bus company ? labour appear content to let any council , regardless of size , experience , expertise or cash reserve , take on these huge financial and organisational risk . that be not empower local government ; that be set it up to fail . and that be before we talk about money . these franchising power be meaningless without the money to implement they . as my hon . friend the Member for Orpington make clear , just £ 243 million of the £ 1 billion promise by Labour be destine for actual bus service . that do not even satisfy Andy Burnham ' s bus habit for a year . what about the rest of the country ? without billion — literally billion — of pound to back up this Bill , it be just posture . so where be the money ? the answer be that there isn ' t any . the Government have scrap the Conservatives ' £ 2 bus fare , which be genuine financial support focus 100 % on passenger , and now it be rumour that even the £ 3 bus fare be due for the chop . perhaps the Minister could confirm that . the Government tell we they have a plan for passenger , but it seem that their plan for passenger be to make they pay more . the Bill need to have the improvement of passenger service at its heart . it need to encourage the innovation and efficiency of the private sector . it need to consider vulnerable SEND child and their educational need . it need to recognise the huge financial risk of franchising and municipal bus ownership , and to provide appropriate oversight and support . most importantly , it need a Government who be prepared to think again in Committee and be open to improvement to the Bill . before I call the Minister , can I just remind member — I appreciate that I be largely preach to the choir here — that they be expect to attend for the wind - up when they have speak in a debate . today , many member have not have the opportunity to be call , but have sit here throughout ; perhaps they will point that out to their colleague . I thank all member for their participation in today ' s lively debate , span across the House . I do not intend to take intervention due to time , and out of courtesy to member who have speak already , I intend to respond as well as I can . I would like , first of all , to wish my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) a very happy birthday . this Bill be indeed a birthday surprise just for she ! my right hon . friend the Secretary of State set out why the Government have introduce this important Bill . bus be the country ' s most popular form of public transport , make up to 58 % of all public transport trip in England in 2023 . they connect people to opportunity and to job they would not otherwise be able to take , and they give freedom to those otherwise face isolation . yet despite all this , many community have experience the familiar pattern of bus service be cut and fare go up , with the deregulation of bus in the 1980 leave local area with few option . we understand that local leader be well place to make decision about how to improve bus service in their area , and through this Bill we be give they the tool to do so . we have engage with stakeholder in develop these measure , and implementation will give we a further opportunity to engage on the detail of implementation . my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) and the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) and for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) speak about franchising . to make decision effectively , local leader need all possible option on the table , and that include bus franchising . franchising allow local transport authority to take control of bus service by determine the route , service specification and performance target for operator . Greater Manchester , the first area in England outside of London to franchise , have see notable success so far with punctuality and patronage up across the network , but I recognise that there be no one - size - fit - all approach to franchising . different model , such as the Jersey model , may suit rural area well . the Government be determined to put power over local service back in the hand of local leader across England . that be why the Department recently allocate over £ 700 million of bus grant to local transport authority in 2025 - 26 . I want to address the comment make about the cost of franchising for Greater Manchester . accord to datum from Transport for Greater Manchester , franchising be deliver on time and to the agree budget of £ 134 . 5 million . that include the whole process , include the acquisition of asset like bus depot . let we be clear : without the change make in Greater Manchester under franchising , the bus network would be small , less attractive to passenger and more expensive to run and use . a number of hon . member refer to socially necessary local service and rural service . transport authority that provide their service under an enhance partnership agreement will need to identify socially necessary local service in their area and include they in their enhance partnership . local transport authority will need to consider the alternative option that be available to mitigate the negative impact on bus user , include demand responsive bus service and community transport , which may work well for rural area . by increase the level of transparency around decision making on route change and require consideration of alternative arrangement , the impact of any change to bus network will be fully assess . the issue of rural service be an important one . as I mention before , no one - size - fit - all solution exist . local transport authority in rural area well understand the need of their local community , and it be right that they be give the opportunity to determine what be right for their area . the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , for Orpington and for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) refer to the fare cap . the Secretary of State set out that the Government have confirm over £ 1 billion of funding to support and improve bus service in England and to keep fare affordable . we also take the first step towards consolidate bus funding by bring together funding for bus service improvement and support service under one authority bus grant for the first time . my official will work with stakeholder to develop and implement a new bus grant allocation for future funding . I ultimately want to create a fair and simple formula for bus funding that take into account local need . a number of hon . member raise important point about accessibility and float bus stop . the Government be commit to safe and accessible bus transport . the matter be debate in great detail in the other place , and the Government fully appreciate the concern raise about the accessibility of float bus stop . the goal be to ensure that all passenger can travel with confidence that bus station and stop will meet their access need and that design feature will be incorporate that promote their personal safety . we know more need to be do to make these installation accessible for all . the Department be work with Active Travel England and Transport for London to provide further guidance and undertake research to address gap in the evidence base . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) mention the innovative zero emission bus be produce here in the UK . this Government be supportive of the effort and innovation of UK manufacturer , from which about 60 % of zero emission bus regional area — zebra — fund bus be typically procure . in March , I chair the first UK bus manufacturing expert panel , which bring together industry expert and local leader to ensure that the UK remain a leader in bus manufacturing . moreover , the Government be supportive of bus repowere as a viable and sustainable option to help the transition to zero emission bus . I commit to write to the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock on the eligibility of those bus for the MHCLG funding that he mention . this Bill be about choice — choice for local leader to decide how their bus network can well serve local people . it be a passenger - first approach . I think a picture paint 1 , 000 word , and the picture of the Conservatives tell I that they do not really care about bus . the Bill be a critical part of the Government ' s bus reform agenda . I thank all those who contribute to today ' s debate , which have be wide - range and a useful opportunity to discuss the important issue . I look forward to continue the discussion in Committee — perhaps with a few more Opposition Members . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 8 July 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to aconclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . business without Debate delegate legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( increase of Borrowing Limits ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 23 April , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments order , that Rachel Blake be discharge from the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments and Helena Dollimore be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) woman and Equalities committee order , that Shivani Raja be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Rebecca Paul be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition Petition - Parking enforcement measure on Hurstcroft Road and Eddish Road in the constituency of Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident live on Hurstcroft Road and Eddish Road . they have have to endure year of inconsiderate parker block their drive and , in some instance , direct their abuse and frustration at resident . this be grossly unfair to my constituent . my constituent Dana Ali state that the behaviour of the road user around the school have cause great distress and inconvenience to many on the road . that be why the petitioner " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with both West Midlands Police , and Birmingham City Council , to set out great enforcement for parking violation around Lea Forest Academy , on Hurstcroft Road , and Eddish Road . and the petitioner remain , etc . . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident on Hurstcroft Road and Eddish Road , B33 declare that West Midlands Police , in collaboration with Birmingham City Council , must seek to address the persistent parking offence around Lea Forest Academy School , between the hour of 8am - 9am , and 2 : 30pm and 3 : 30pm , to help improve the wellbeing and life of local resident . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with both West Midlands Police , and Birmingham City Council , to set out great enforcement for parking violation around Lea Forest Academy , on Hurstcroft Road , and Eddish Road . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003076 ] arm and Military Cargo Export Controls : Israel Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) I rise to speak about british arm and military cargo export control — specifically , our export to Israel amid one of the most devastating conflict in modern memory . " it ' s horrific . Gaza have become a slaughterhouse . that ' s what it be : a slaughterhouse . " those be the word of Tom Potokar , a british doctor work in Khan Yunis , as he urge world leader to " stop talk and do something " . since 7 October , Israel have kill ten of thousand of Palestinians . as a father , the thought of the loss of a single child be heartbreaking ; the estimate of more than 50 , 000 child kill or injure in the Gaza strip be inconceivable . yet despite the scale of this destruction , our Government have continue to export weapon to Israel , without pause , without transparency and without apparent regard for international humanitarian law . despite the UK Government suspend around 30 of 350 export licence in September 2024 , a new report , " expose UK arm export to Israel " use datum from the Israel Tax Authority to reveal the sheer volume that we continue to send . a report in the Guardian last month suggest that despite the suspension of key arm export licence to Israel back in September , UK firm have export thousand of military item , include munition , to Israel . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) the export have include item such as bomb , grenade , torpedo , mine , missile and similar munition of war . do my hon . friend agree that it be completely conceivable that those weapon have be use to kill and maim child in Gaza , and therefore the only humane and reasonable option be for we to suspend all arm export licence to Israel , and ensure that no british manufacture munition be go to Netanyahu ' s Israel ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , which be easy for I to respond to — yes , I agree wholeheartedly . since October 2023 there have be at least 14 shipment of military good from the UK to Israel . those include over 8 , 500 munition , bomb , grenade , missile , and 146 armoured vehicle part . in October 2023 alone , the UK export 150 , 000 bullet . my hon . friend make an excellent point . since October 2023 , analysis by action on Armed Violence identify more than 500 RAF - link flight from Akrotiri to israeli airspace . while describe as " reconnaissance " , the Ministry of Defence refuse to confirm whether any carried military cargo . do my hon . friend agree that the Minister must confirm without delay the exact purpose of those flight ? have any of they transport military equipment to support Israel ? have the UK conduct surveillance over Gaza , and have any intelligence be use with the Israel Defence Forces ? if RAF asset be operate during such incident , be there not clear evidence of serious international humanitarian law violation , and a duty to share all relevant intelligence with the International Criminal Court without delay ? that be something I will touch on later in my speech , but I also hope that we will be get some answer on those exact point in due course . between October and December 2024 this Labour Government approve £ 127 . 6 million in single - issue arm licence to Israel , which be more than the total approve from 2020 to 2023 combine . my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) be accuse of " sensationalism " for highlight that to the Foreign Secretary , but these be the Government ' s own figure . include in that total be £ 60 million in incorporation licence , up from just £ 2 million in the previous quarter . that prompt the question : why have single and incorporation licence surge both since we take office , and after the so - call suspension ? open licence be not include in those figure , mean that the true scale of UK military export to Israel remain unknown and unaccountable . the report also expose that despite pledge to halt F - 35 part shipment directly to Israel , evidence suggest that the UK continue supply crucial component . these jet , 15 % British make , fuel relentless attack on Gaza , register over 15 , 000 flight hour since October 2023 , and drop bomb that kill hundred of people indiscriminately . rise — one horrific example of why we must stop supply the part for the F - 35 fighter jet be the al - Mawasi attack last July . F - 35s drop 2 , 000 lb bomb on a designate safe zone in Gaza , kill 90 civilian and injure 300 . the use of such powerful munition in densely populate area be clearly a violation of international humanitarian law . as my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) say , key part of the F - 35s that carry out that attack may well have come from Britain ; they clearly have do in other attack . if we want to avoid any complicity in such israeli war crime , do we not need to stop these export immediately ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I be very glad that the al - Mawasi attack have be mention and I wholeheartedly agree with the sentiment he express . freedom of information datum reveal that the F - 35 open general export licence be use 14 time to export to Israel in 2023 — three time as much as in any other year . Israel be heavily reliant on F - 35s for its attack on Gaza and be expand its fleet . without UK component , those jet could not fly . the late report from the Palestinian Youth Movement far detail the F - 35 supply chain . it show that subassemblie and part for f35s , include those use for repair and maintenance , be all " log and document " , and that the global supply chain for the US - run F - 35 maintenance programme have " robust traceability " . therefore , the Government ' s claim that it be impossible to halt supply of F - 35 component to Israel without undermine the global F - 35 supply chain do not stand up to scrutiny . that raise serious question around the UK ' s legal duty to prevent genocide , yet the weapon continue to flow . rise — do the hon . member share my concern that some equipment , such as drone engine , may be be export to Israel without the need for export licence and be potentially get into the hand of military organisation , perhaps not directly to drop bomb but to engage in other military activity , such as provide reconnaissance and decoy ? do he support require all export item that can be use within a military conflict zone to have a full licence , so that the public know exactly where UK business be engage ? the hon . member raise some really important point and I be in agreement with her intervention . when review arm export licence to Israel , the UK must also consider violation across the Occupied Palestinian Territories , include the west bank , where Palestinians face home demolition , forcible displacement and settler violence — action breach the fourth Geneva convention and risk UK legal obligation under the arm export criterion . the Foreign Secretary ' s recent condemnation of Israel ' s action as " monstrous " be welcome but incomplete , because the very same Government continue to facilitate such action . we can not have it both way . we can not condemn atrocity while simultaneously fuel the machinery that enable it . we can not claim to uphold international law while profit from its breach . I urge the Minister to respond fully — not with platitude but with clarity , honesty and , above all , accountability . rise — I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . I speak to he beforehand and he give I permission to intervene . he will understand the need to bring an end to this war and to bring hope to the child of the region . however , will he acknowledge that Israel be still under daily attack and can not be leave without any mean to defend itself from those who hide among civilian target ? we must ensure that action take here do not simply reset the gauge of casualty . I agree with the hon . member that all country have the right to defend themselves . I have condemn the vile event of 7 October in other place , and do so again here . all country have the right to defend themselves , but no country have the right to commit war crime . despite the International Court of Justice ' s rule that there be a " plausible risk of genocide " in Gaza , the UK continue to authorise arm export to Israel , make we in potential breach of our obligation under the genocide convention , the Geneva convention and the arm trade treaty . in the hearing of Al - Haq v . Secretary of State for Business and Trade , it be reveal that the Government decide there be no serious risk of genocide back in July 2024 , yet in Parliament we be tell that the Government be wait on a court determination . in court , we be tell that it be not for the court to decide , as those treaty be not incorporate into domestic law and be Parliament ' s responsibility . if it be not Parliament or the court , who be the Government accountable to for the decision to continue to transfer arm to Israel , potentially breach international law and facilitate a genocide ? will the Government publish their most recent assessment of the risk that Israel be commit genocide ? I thank the hon . member for his very powerful speech , and I echo his call for the Government to publish their most recent assessment of the risk of genocide . do he agree that it make a mockery of our obligation under international law to prevent genocide if our government say that they can only judge it after genocide have be conclusively prove in court to have happen ? do our obligation to act to prevent genocide not mean that we should stop all arm export to the israeli Government now , in the face of the clear evidence of war crime and , indeed , genocide occur in Gaza ? I be in especial agreement on the importance of prevent those thing . I be very eager , as I be sure the hon . member be , to hear from the Minister in relation to those comment . let we turn to the Government ' s own assessment . in the same hearing , it be reveal that by September ' 24 , Israel have launch ten of thousand of air strike and kill more than 40 , 000 Palestinians in Gaza . the public be be tell to trust our judgment on the weapon that this country be send to a state conduct a genocide . this be the same government who , after review 413 incident , determine that only 0 . 5 % of they potentially violate international humanitarian law . not a single incident involve only the death of Palestinians be deem even possibly unlawful . while the Foreign Secretary repeatedly talk about the UK ' s " robust " licensing regime , the reality be that british export datum be notoriously opaque . can the Government confirm whether they have reach a new assessment since September ? if so , can they disclose it to the public ? if the Government be truly confident in the legality of their export , will they publish custom code , product description and a full paper trail from sender to end user ? would this level of opacity be tolerate if it be british civilian under the rubble ? we be repeatedly tell that the UK arm export be " defensive in nature " , reduce to nothing more than " a helmet or goggle " , but let we be clear : the Government have never define what " defensive " mean , especially when export include component for F - 35 fighter jet capable of drop 2 , 000 - lb bomb on densely populate area . since September 2024 , there have be no evidence that UK export be limit to non - lethal equipment or that they be not intend for use in Gaza . the Government do not claim that it be too difficult to track where these weapon end up ; instead , they invoke vague concern about " international peace and security " , as though suspend export to Israel would somehow endanger global stability , include support for Ukraine , but that be a false dichotomy . palestinian life be not less valuable . the F - 35 programme be one of the most sophisticated supply chain on earth . if we want to , we could track every part . the real question be : do we want to ? how do the Government define a weapon as defensive ? what precisely make an F - 35 component defensive ? be it the Government ' s position that the need to continue to supply F - 35 component outweigh the risk of genocide ? if so , be there any circumstance that would lead to the UK stop that supply ? the Government have claim that there be red line that would trigger a halt to export , but Gaza be already a slaughterhouse . child be emaciated or die of hunger , hospital have be intentionally destroy and Israel ' s leader vow to wipe out Gaza , and still the weapon flow , so finally , Minister , where be our red line ? I call on this Government to suspend all arm export to Israel , to ensure that no British - make weapon be use in Israel ' s brutal plan to annex , starve and ethnically cleanse the palestinian population . the credibility of this House depend not just on what we condemn , but on what we enable , and history will remember that we enable too much . I be respond on this issue on behalf of the Government tonight , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) for secure this important and timely debate . let I address the House this evening by first set out the Government ' s policy , and then set out our approach to transparency , which form a key part of my hon . friend ' s contribution . it be accept on all side of this House that , as the Government have make clear , what be witness on 7 October 2023 be not an act of liberation , but an act of barbarism by Hamas . over the many month of this conflict , the UK Government have make the case for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all the hostage detain , the protection of civilian , access for aid and aid worker to Gaza , and the need for a path to long - term peace and security in the region . the responsibility of Hamas be clear , but so too be the appalling humanitarian crisis that have since unfold in Gaza as a result of Israel ' s subsequent action . the way in which Israel be conduct its operation be indefensible , disproportionate , and — in the view of the UK Government — counterproductive to any last peace settlement . the Government ' s policy remain that the only way to secure peace and stability be through an immediate ceasefire , the release of the hostage hold captive by Hamas , the protection of civilian , and the lifting of all israeli restriction on aid be send into Gaza . last month , at the United Nations Security Council , the UK Government make the case for urgent humanitarian aid to enter Gaza , and express our outrage at both the killing of palestinian Red Crescent worker and the strike on the UN Office for Project Services compound in March . we also issue a statement with 27 international partner on the mechanism need to deliver those vital aid supply , and together with the leader of France and Canada , we make clear our strong opposition to the late expansion of Israel ' s military operation . rise — let I make a little progress , and then I will be open to intervention . I turn next to the action take by this Government in support of those statement . we have support the restoration of funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ; we have suspend arm licence ; we provide £ 129 million in humanitarian assistance to the Occupied Palestinian Territories in the last financial year ; and we have decide to suspend negotiation on the upgrade free trade agreement with this israeli Government . in the week before last , the Foreign Secretary say that we be suspend arm negotiation with the israeli Government , yet just last week , we have a trade envoy — Lord Austin — visit Israel and say how wonderful it be to be there . can the Minister please explain how those two matter do not contradict each other ? there be long - stand relationship of trade and economic with Israel — for instance , as I understand it , one in eight of the prescribe drug available through the national health service be provide by an israeli company . we have take a clear position of not upgrade the free trade agreement but recognise , for example , that those supply be important . the trade envoy role be accountable to the Secretary of State in the Department for Business and Trade , and we be clear that Lord Austin would not directly deal with the israeli Government when he be there and have no responsibility for the free trade agreement negotiation that otherwise would have be take place in the come month . rise — let I make a little more progress , then I will be happy to take further intervention . I will turn to the specific issue of export licence . on come into office , the Foreign Secretary commission an immediate assessment into Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law . on the basis of that assessment , on 2 September , we suspend arm export licence for item to the Israel Defence Forces that could be use in military operation in Gaza . as a result of that decision , licence be suspend for a range of military equipment , stop the export of F - 16 fighter aircraft component , of target system and of licensable part that make unmanned aerial vehicle . that measure be still in place . I reiterate that base on our current assessment of potential breach of international humanitarian law , we be not license military equipment provide directly to the IDF that could be use for military operation in Gaza . it be right to acknowledge that our export licence grant in relation to Israel cover a wide remit than simply those item that may be use in Gaza . there be a relatively small number of licence for the IDF relate to equipment that we assess would not be use in the current conflict , include , for example , part for air defence system that defend Israel from act such as the major aerial attack from Iran in April 2024 . we also think it be right to continue to provide military grade body armour use by non - governmental organisation and journalist , and to provide part of the supply chain that be ultimately re - export out of Israel to support the defence of our NATO ally . the Government be fully commit to uphold our responsibility under domestic and international law , and have act in a manner consistent with our legal obligation , include under the arm trade treaty and the genocide convention . on the global F - 35 programme , we be of course face a critical moment of european security , with war on the continent at our neighbour ' doorstep . undermine the F - 35 programme at this juncture would , in the Government ' s view , disrupt international peace and security , NATO deterrence and european defence as a whole . rise — let I finish the explanation , then I will be happy to take intervention . our exporter provide component for the F - 35 aircraft to a global spare pool and the common production line for new aircraft , where they have no sight and no control over the specific ultimate end user for their export . put plainly , it be not possible to suspend licensing of F - 35 component for use by one F - 35 nation without cease supply to the entire global F - 35 programme . it be therefore judge necessary by the Government to exclude F - 35 component from the scope of the suspension . let I be very clear , however , that the UK Government be not sell F - 35 component directly to the israeli authority . the licence that allow the export of F - 35 component be amend in September to specifically make it clear that direct shipment to Israel for use in Israel be not permit . the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) mention the Government ' s red line . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade say that there be red line that would make the Government stop send F - 35 part , but the Minister have just be clear that it be not possible to stop send those part . if the Secretary of State say that there be red line — and how be we not at those red line , give what be happen in Gaza — what exactly be go on ? we be not directly send part to Israel for the F - 35s . we be continue to support the global component pool of the F - 35 programme for the reason that I have set out . we as a Government judge that there be a material risk to the security of our NATO ally , and more broadly to european security , if the F - 35 aircraft that be use by a number of our ally be no long able to secure the supply and the aircraft be therefore no long able to fly . I want to understand who be make the rule about the spare part pool . surely if we be trade into that pool , we have a right to set the rule . if those component be go on to F - 35s that be be buy by Israel , we have a right to block those part or to kick Israel out , as we do with Turkey in 2019 . we make approximately 15 % of the component that contribute to the F - 35 programme ; it be an international programme of which we be but one partner . we continue to supply the programme because our judgment as a Government be that not do so would undermine the continue functioning of the programme , which be in the Government ' s view , as I say , of critical importance to european and global security . will the Minister give way ? I have give way several time on that point , so I be keen to make some progress . the Government have make these judgment calmly and soberly , and will continue to do so with full awareness of our responsibility . let I now turn to the question of transparency . as the UK Government , we publish quarterly official statistic and an annual report about export licence grant and refuse . we provide a searchable database allow user to produce bespoke report , draw on this data , and we be commit to openness on strategic export licensing , which provide the mean for Parliament and the public to hold we to account . will the Minister give way ? I be keen to make a little more progress before I take further intervention . because these be exceptional circumstance , the Government have hear request from member on both side of the House for we to release further detail , include information on licence application in progress , and as full information as we can disclose on the type of equipment that be cover by each extant licence . recognise the exceptional nature of this issue and the importance of provide transparent and robust information to ensure that Parliament and the public can hold the Government to account , in December we lay in the Library of the House an exceptional release of export licensing datum focus specifically on Israel , set out plainly how many licence remain extant at that time , how many have be grant since June 2024 , and how many have be refuse . in summarise that release , let I assure Members that remain licence relate to non - military item , military item for civilian use , or item not for use in military operation in Gaza . these licence also extend to component in item for re - export to other country — that is , those that then leave Israel . ongoing licensing application be also decide on that basis . in fact , of the 352 licence extant for Israel , as of 6 December 191 be non - military . they include commercial aircraft component , equipment for private manufacturing firm , and part for submersible vessel for use in scientific research . that leave 161 licence relate to military equipment . however , less than half those relate to the Government of Israel or the IDF . most related either to UK component that private israeli company would incorporate before re - export an item to a third country , or to military - grade equipment for civilian such as body armour for journalist and NGOs . I can advise the House that recent reporting on this topic do not provide distinction between item for civilian and for military use , or between item remain in Israel and those for re - export . the UK be not allow the direct export of arm for use in Israel ' s military operation in Gaza . the Minister be give a detailed response , but may I return he to the issue of the international pool of F - 35 spare ? be it the Government ' s contention that a conditional licence be impossible — that is , that we could provide F - 35 spare , but on the basis that they be not then send to Israel to be use in Gaza ? I be acutely conscious of the time , Madam Deputy Speaker . the exclusion from the suspension decision for F - 35 component should not , in principle , apply to licence for F - 35 component that could be identify as go to Israel for use by Israel . export of F - 35 component directly to Israel be therefore suspend unless they be for re - export . let I return to the specific point that I know have be the subject of much scrutiny in relation to recent reporting outside the House . the majority of military licence approve last year be for component of military item for re - export to third country , include the UK ' s NATO ally , of about £ 142 million - worth of military good license for Israel and in 2024 . the vast majority of that overall value be support the production of item for use outside Israel . that include more than £ 120 million , or about 85 % of the total licence value , for component to support export of military item from israeli company to a single programme for a NATO ally . these remain licence have no utility in military operation in Gaza . the suspension of such licence be not require by our export licence criterion , and would have do nothing but harm UK company and UK business engage in authorised and legal trade . since September , we have refuse all licence application for military good that might be use by Israel in the current conflict in line with the suspension decision . More application be refuse in 2024 than in the precede four year combine . question put and agree to . House adjourn .