thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I take this opportunity to put on record my congratulation to you on your election and to pay tribute to the staff of the entire House , who have work so hard to make we all comfortable and able to get on with our job in this very complicated and complex place ? I pay tribute to those who make their maiden speech in previous debate today , include my hon . friend the Members for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) on this side of the House , and the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) on the Liberal Democrats Benches . give the hon . member for Witney ' s reference to the wool trade , and give that Exeter ' s wealth in the middle age be build on the wool trade , with the wool be bring down from Dartmoor , it be entirely possible that our two place have significant trading link in the past . I be delighted to give this maiden speech as the new Member for Exeter — only the third in over half a century . in his own maiden speech , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , who be here early today , state that Lincoln be the old parliamentary seat in the country , establish in 1265 . exeter , another great cathedral and university city , be by comparison a mere whippersnapper , with our seat be establish in 1295 . of the many member who have represent Exeter in the subsequent seven century , my immediate predecessor , Sir Ben Bradshaw , need little introduction . he serve the country diligently throughout his 27 year as a Member , include a decade as a Minister . elect in the 1997 Labour landslide , he gain early notice as one of the first out gay man ever to be elect to the Commons . after a notorious campaign , Exonians in their wisdom rightly and roundly reject the outrageous homophobia of his opponent , and I and many other here today be among the many proud successor of his trailblaze role . Ben love our city , and the city take he to its heart . he be re - elect six further time , and even this July , despite no long be the candidate , he be as active knock on door as he have ever be and as popular as ever . I might have be have a particularly difficult conversation on a doorstep , but the face of even the most hardened and sceptical voter would light up as Ben march past in his canvassing uniform of cargo short and a check shirt , usually whistle the theme tune from " the Great Escape " . hug be exchange , selfie take and heartfelt thank express . he be almost universally accept as have do exeter proud . he have certainly be a friend and mentor to I over nearly two decade , and I thank he for that . Ben take particular pride in the turnaround in Exeter ' s education under his watch , something to which , as MP , he make a huge contribution . by 2010 , not only have every single state secondary school in Exeter be rebuild , but a new leadership culture have be establish where low attainment become unacceptable for our young people in every single part of the city . from have some of the bad state secondary school in the country , Exeter secondary school become some of the most improved , to which the most recent exceptional GCSE result bear testimony . exeter can now also boast one of the good further education college in the country — again , as our recent a - level and t - level result show — a vital but , in much of Britain , badly neglect element in provide wide opportunity for young people , include those who choose alternative route into work . as a school governor at Willowbrook primary school in Exeter , which serve one of our most economically deprive neighbourhood , I also pay tribute from first - hand experience to the primary school teacher everywhere , who go above and beyond to give their young child the very good start in life . this turnaround in Exeter ' s education system do not happen by accident . it take hard work , strong leadership and a collaborative culture . I would like to thank some of our leader for everything they have do to give our young people well life chance in Exeter . they include Moira Marder at the Ted Wragg Trust , John Laramy at Exeter College and Molly Marlow at Willowbrook primary school . and of course , I want to pay tribute to the politician , include former Devon county councillor Saxon Spence and the then Schools Minister Lord Adonis , who have the vision and the ability to deliver for Exeter . exeter ' s stand in learning go beyond our school system . next year , the University of Exeter celebrate the 70th anniversary of its royal charter . in that time it have grow to be an outstanding institution , now with well over 30 , 000 student , but it build on a tradition of an unbroken history of learning and academia stretch back at least to the 10th century . in Exeter cathedral rest the Exeter Book , an exquisite anthology of anglo - Saxon poetry and riddle that be still the large know collection of Old English literature . it be recognise by UNESCO as one of the world ' s principal cultural artefact , make exeter a UNESCO city of literature . today , five of the world ' s top 21 climate scientist be UK base and all of they work for our globally renowned University of Exeter and the Met Office . along with these two institution and a grow ecosystem of business , Exeter be home to a large and ever - grow research and innovation base that be at the forefront of combat and mitigate the effect of climate change . it have become fashionable in some circle to denigrate our university . I reject this entirely : they stand as beacon of intellectual excellence , the future success of our knowledge economy and the hope of wide educational opportunity for many people . a good education be what help I to become a Member of Parliament . I grow up in a council house with my mum , who spend her entire childhood in care , and I be the first in my family to go to university , so I pledge to work with all our education leader to make sure that every young person in Exeter have the good education to help they to reach their potential . I want this Labour Government to deliver an equivalent leap forward in educational opportunity that their predecessor achieve for their time in 1945 , 1964 and 1997 . in relation to this debate , Exeter University be home to the centre for future clean mobility , a partnership with business to develop low emission power system for the aerospace and automotive sector . our university be also world lead in genomics research . one of the main reason I be in politic , as a Labour MP , be my sister . she be bear when I be 10 , and when she be a year old , she be diagnose with Hurler syndrome , a rare genetic condition with no cure . give a life expectancy of around five year , she finally die two day short of her 10th birthday . much of her life be spend be care for by the NHS and our local child ' s hospice , and I will be eternally grateful for everything they do to give we so much more time with she than we expect . at the time of my sister ' s birth , we understand genetic condition but do not yet have the tool to help . the human genome be finally map just a year before she die , and that same year the first enzyme replacement therapy trial for her condition commence in the UK . People bear today with my sister ' s condition have a range of treatment option to help to make their life more comfortable and more fulfilling . I be particularly proud that Exeter University , in partnership with our local NHS trust , be at the forefront of this new wave of innovation . we know that scientific research and innovation , whether on tackle climate change or in medical advance , will make the life of people in this country and around the world well , but the Government have to recognise the vital role of our university in economic growth and take advantage of the many opportunity for partnership with the NHS and across the public sector . I know that this Government will understand the need to ensure that the UK continue to be at the forefront of scientific endeavour ; and , as a pro - european , I believe that this be where Britain can make a huge contribution , work with our european friend and partner despite the tragedy of Brexit . I also ask that Ministers recognise that Exeter and the wide south - west have the talent and the institution in which to invest to ensure that the UK remain at the cutting edge of UK and european innovation . to succeed in these endeavour we also have to recognise that diversity be a strength , so build community together on the principle of equality for everyone be vital to our success . in Exeter , the university and the local council play an important role in bring people together . we have a thrive mosque and muslim community . we have welcome hundred of ukrainian and hongkonger family over recent year , and we have large and grow kurdish , afghan and nigerian community , among other . everyone bring something new and positive to our city , and I love nothing more than our annual respect festival — a celebration of all our many community — and our Pride parade . Inclusive Exeter , a community interest company , also play an important role in bring community together . exeter have become a true beacon of live well together . it be a privilege and an honour to represent all the people of Exeter in this place , and I thank they for their vote of confidence in send I here . I also thank my local activist and , of course , my family and friend , some of whom be in the Gallery , for all their support over the year . without they I would not be here . exeter be a happy and optimistic place , and I hope to do it proud by serve it as conscientiously and as successfully as my distinguished predecessor . I congratulate the hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) on his maiden speech . my hometown of Thatcham be record in " the Guinness Book of Records " in 1990 as the country ' s old continuously inhabit settlement , date back some 3 , 000 year , although it be not quite a parliamentary seat . I pay my respect and tribute to his sister . I will also reference my sister and her reliance on the NHS . I have be in the Chamber for many maiden speech , and I have be impress by they all . I congratulate they on share their passion and their local knowledge . Newbury have return a Member of Parliament since 1835 but , follow the recent boundary change , the constituency have lose the south bank of the Thames at Streatley and village include Compton , West Ilsley and , pertinent to I , Hampstead Norris , the village of my grandparent , but I know they be safe in the stewardship of the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . however , we have retain our market town of Newbury , Thatcham and Hungerford , alongside our beautiful village of Lambourn , Peasemore , Inkpen , Hermitage , Chieveley and Cold Ash , where I go to primary school , to name but a few . my constituency have a proud racing heritage , with Lambourn train some of the world ' s good racehorse and Newbury host one of the most prestigious horse race in the calendar . in Hungerford you can spend the afternoon antique shopping , and in Thatcham you can visit one the large inland reed bed in southern England , home to internationally important specie . we be also home to Vodafone , one of the global leader in telecommunication . Xtrac in Thatcham supply Formula 1 component , and Stryker be one of the world ' s lead medical technology company . away from cut - edge technology , we also have : traditional craftsmanship at company like Benchmark in Kintbury , which have be build and design furniture for over 40 year ; delightful country home like Welford Park , which be home to " the great british Bake Off " ; and one of the most unique and beautiful theatre in the country , the watermill at Bagnor . and , of course , we be support by many great charity : Greenham Common Trust , the Community Furniture Project , eight Bells for Mental Health , local alm house and , sadly , West Berkshire food bank and Newbury soup kitchen , which be need to help a grow number of local resident . we also enjoy be surround by the area of outstanding natural beauty and 200 of the most precious chalk stream in the country . in give our maiden speech , we all like to claim the beauty of our own area , but the author Bill Bryson have it spot on and may be able to stop future disagreement in the Chamber . in " the Road to little Dribbling " he write : " there isn ' t a landscape in the world that be more artfully work , more lovely to behold , more comfortable to be in than the countryside of Great Britain . it be the world ' s large park , its most perfect accidental garden … all we have to do be look after it . " as a member of a political party with a proud heritage of stand up for the environment , I can assure hon . member and my constituent that I will do my bit in this place to make sure that we do look after it . the decision that I believe will conclude this debate , give the cross - party support , will contribute to that ideal . I welcome the propose change . as the Member for Newbury , I will uphold our tradition and protect our environment , because without they the Newbury constituency would not be what it be — a balance between our environment , our tradition and our ability to innovate . these be also support by my predecessor . my immediate predecessor Laura Farris — strangely , I see she in Central Lobby just before come to the Chamber — deliver meaningful change in this House on sexual abuse and violence against woman . she secure new law on sexual violence in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 and campaign for tough sentence for fatal domestic abuse . it be a further credit to she that the handover to I be as smooth as one could have hope for . I wish Laura and her family all the good for the future , and I be sure she will continue to make a difference . Richard Benyon , now Lord Benyon , serve Newbury from 2005 to 2019 and have always be open and approachable , offer I some early advice when I be first elect . the liberal Democrat David Rendel hold the seat follow a then record - break by - election — my party be rather good at those — from 1993 to 2005 , and I run with he in my home ward back in 2007 , start my electoral journey in West Berkshire . all three predecessor care deeply about Newbury and West Berkshire , as I do , too , but in new time there be new challenge . the Royal Berkshire hospital in Reading be in great need of replacement , and I look forward to a swift review of the new hospital programme . the West Berkshire community hospital in Newbury be willing to do more so that diagnostic service can be provide locally . without the NHS , my sister , Michelle , would not be here today . we need to cherish it , fund it and modernise it . despite our apparent wealth , we have pocket of poverty in Newbury . as I allude to early , we be see an increase in the use of food bank and soup kitchen , the cost of living be still hurt and the propose removal of the winter fuel allowance will compound that problem even more , despite our good effort to get those who be entitle on to pension credit . House price have soar and be now over 10 time the average salary , increase demand for rented home and add pressure to housing waiting list . the ability to have a warm and secure home be the foundation of a settle life . child learn well , crime be low and community cohesion be strong when people have a settle community . I have work in the social housing sector for the last 14 year . we must do more to deliver much need home for social rent . I wish to conclude my speech by give a small round of thank . first , I thank my constituent for entrust I with the honour of represent we here , and my local team for engage in so many positive conversation on the door step . I will endeavour to pay back their support with my deed in the House . to my wife , Gemma , and my child , Oliver , James and Eleanor , I say thank you for your constant support and love that have allow I to fulfil my dream of be the Member of Parliament for my home . as a 16 - year - old , I arrange a visit to Parliament . as we be be show around the Chamber , we come past the Opposition Front Bench and a school friend cheekily sit down . I will not use parliamentary privilege to name he but he encourage I to do the same . you will be pleased to hear that I decline , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , I say that I would sit there if I ever get elect . well , 25 year later , I can now rightly take my place on the famous green Benches , so some dream do come true . as the son of a trade union official , I suspect I be always go to end up in a role where I could speak truth to power . I thank my father , Raymond , for instill in I a sense of fairness and a belief that we can make change happen . my mother , Geraldine , and step - father , Colin , have support I in every election I have stand in — I thank they for be there for I , keep I honest and remind I that it be nice to be important , but it be more important to be nice . thank you for the opportunity to address the House , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member who have already speak today , whether about fall foul of a wasp , what lever to pull — I can certainly empathise with that — or genuine courage , which we can all agree be absolutely necessary in this House . I thank they all for their word . I start by thank my predecessor , Stephen Metcalfe . I extend to he my gratitude , not least for his gentlemanly conduct throughout the campaign . he be gracious and dignified throughout , so it be easy to understand why he be , as far as a politician might expect , well like by both mp and constituent . as we navigate life ' s milestone , it be natural to become philosophical . first and foremost , I be a husband and a father . while no professional achievement rival the significance of personal event such as childbirth , be give the tremendous opportunity to serve our country and constituent , those in need and , if we do our job right , those whom we can help to avoid need altogether , come close . speak of fatherhood and childbirth , I draw hon . member ' attention to the tremendous work do by the Basildon university hospital , a place where miracle be commonplace . it be the place where my child be bear and where , at one time or another , virtually everyone I love have be nurse back to health . I extend my heartfelt appreciation , admiration and respect to everyone who work there . since its inception as a constituency , people in South Basildon and East Thurrock have always vote blue , until they choose turquoise for the first time this July . to stand here today , I have to overcome a previous win margin of 19 , 922 . my own win margin be less dominant : it be one of the tight in the country , at just 98 vote . a swing that large be strong testament to the importance of listen to the people who put we here — all of they . that be a lesson I will not forget . it go without say that I do not achieve that swing alone . although I would like to think that my effort , and those of my mother , who march tirelessly next to I , hand out flier in the baking June sun , earn I the 100 or so vote that get I over the line , the vast majority of that shift be carry by my colleague and fellow Reform UK mps . their tireless championing of the british people be something we should stive to emulate . I be extremely grateful to they . although , as my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) have say , this have ruin my life , I would not have it any other way . I be eternally grateful to the good people of South Basildon and East Thurrock for send I here . I intend to repay their trust by be open and honest , accessible and available . never have it be more important to reconfirm that they have the right to a voice . it be my duty to hear it and protect their right to it . have volunteer to stand as a parliamentary candidate on 4 May and have be invite to stand on 4 June , it be poetic that my seat be one of the last to be call in England , have to endure three count . I might add that I win all three . South Basildon and East Thurrock be a beautiful cross - section of this country . situate just 30 mile east along the Thames from this beautiful Palace , it be an area of great natural diversity , joyfully combine the new with a rich and varied history , rural and industrial . South Basildon and East Thurrock boast Europe ' s large Amazon centre as well as glorious countryside and a prime location on the Thames . many of our quaint village have historical significance . horndon - on - the - Hill be mention in the Domesday Book of 1086 and one of the early uprising that lead to the peasant ' revolt take place in fob in 1381 . those uprising mark the beginning of the end of serfdom . I be hopeful that the lesson teach to the rule class then never need to be relearn . how appropriate it be then that I have the privilege to stand and champion the core value that so many from my home hold dear : independence , equality of opportunity , upward social mobility , courage , long suffering , honesty and forgiveness . I be grateful to champion these quality not just because I believe in they but because I have benefit from they . I be the first in my family to go to university . I have be show forgiveness , give opportunity and climb upwards . as the door be open for I , I will help hold it open for other . most importantly , I must thank the wonderful woman in my life : my late grandmother , a survivor of the blitz , who dedicate her life to her family , and my mother and sister , whose strength , courage and determination inspire I . I have not write this down , but I have well mention my mother - in - law .