I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech with my parent and husband in the Gallery today . I congratulate the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , who give an impassioned speech show how deeply she care for her community , its heritage and in particular the history of care for refugee . she speak so lovingly of her late parent . it be the honour of my life to be elect as the first ever MP for Stratford and Bow . I be bear in east London , and I have live in Stratford and in Bow . I study at one of our brilliant local university , Queen Mary . to go from local student to local MP in 20 year have be quite the homecoming . not get our declaration result until nearly 6 am really do bring back memory of stumble home from uni . I pay tribute to the force of nature Lyn Brown , who serve her home West Ham as the Member of Parliament for 19 year , and for a total of 36 year of selfless service to community in Newham . a true east London girl , her guidance and support have be invaluable . I have no doubt that her contribution to the east end and public life will continue . I also inherit Bow from my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) . she be another trail - blazer , as the first Bangladeshi - origin woman elect to Parliament . she have inspire a generation with the promise of what be possible . although Stratford and Bow be a new parliamentary constituency , its history be old and rich . the Woman ' s Hall at Old Ford Road in Bow be home to Sylvia Pankhurst and Norah Smyth and the headquarters of the East London Federation of Suffragettes from 1914 until 1924 . it be the beat heart of the east end suffrage movement , and the home of the matchgirl ' strike and the large union of woman and girl in the country . every corner be fill with the history of the struggle for woman ' s right and for our voice to be hear ; a history that I will work every day to honour . as a proud grand - daughter of a trade unionist and a member of the GMB union , I go forward in their memory and will continue to fight for work people . part of my constituency have be represent by illustrious political figure include Charles Key , Keir Hardie , Lansbury and Clement Attlee , who lead the Labour Government that create our beloved NHS — so no pressure on this new member . our stunning Victoria park with its breathtaking canal open to the public in 1845 and become the people ' s park : a centre for political meeting and rally with speaker such as William Morris and Annie Besant . it be not just political history that we be bless with in Stratford and Bow . I be sure that many hon . member in the Chamber love nothing more than go home after a long day sit in the Chamber and put on their favourite grime playlist . they can thank Bow for play an integral part in the origin of grime music , with Roman Road and its once - beloved record shop produce artist and crew such as Roll Deep and Skepta to name just two . over in Newham , we have our top boy Kano . I can see that I have completely baffle some hon . member — [ Laughter . ] for those whose taste be a bit more retro , we be also home to ABBA Voyage . my constituency be a place where people can come and spend their money , money , money in some of our brilliant local and international business . of course — it can not be miss — sit at the heart of my constituency be the London stadium : a place of joy and wonder from the 2012 Olympics and some of our most wonderful sporting achievement . as this generation of Team GB paralympian compete in Paris , I send my wish to they . the ability to bring people together that sport possesse be like nothing else , so it be a privilege and honour to be the Member of Parliament for the great club in world football — sorry , Keir — West Ham . as a Hammer since 5 July — [ Laughter ] — I be proud to be forever blow bubble . I know that there be several Hammers fan on the Government Benches and throughout the parliamentary estate — probably more of we than member on the Opposition Benches . Stratford and Bow be a wonderful , vibrant and diverse constituency , and our current heritage live up to that history . Forest Gate be the home of independent cafe and shop and Forest Gayte Pride , overlook the nature and beauty of Wanstead Flats . there be the bustling shop of Green Street serve community throughout east London , alongside mosque , temple , synagogue , gurdwara and church . it be a place that be truly representative of the rich tapestry of culture and people that make up our great capital city , London . People from all over the world have come to Stratford and Bow to make the UK their home . my constituency be a prime example of Britain at its good , with pearly king and queen , and white , european , Indian , Bengali , Pakistani , chinese , african , asian , middle eastern , caribbean community and more living side by side and work together to make a well society for everyone . wherever someone be from , they be welcome in Stratford and Bow . I be proud , too , to have origin as an east London girl bear in Homerton hospital , but I be bear here but by fate . I be the daughter of Tamil refugee and the child of a community that know what it be like to endure prejudice and persecution . my parent , proud and patriotic british citizen , come to Britain over 40 year ago , but they do not simply come here ; they flee for their life , force to leave behind everything and everyone they know and love , tear from a good and prosperous life in their prime to start from scratch in an unfamiliar country , work multiple job day and night to give I the chance that be take from they . Britain welcome my parent with open arm so that they could rebuild their life and flourish , and it be the east end that they first choose to call their home . this be the London that I know and love , and it be the story of Britain and british value at its good : outward look and compassionate ; a country where people can work hard and triumph . Mum and dad , thank you for everything : your endurance and your will to succeed — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] you be part of the success story of Britain , and that be a story that can be find in every corner of Stratford and Bow and in every part of Britain , with the hope and aspiration for a well tomorrow that all parent have for their child and the dream of a safe and secure life . it be that hope and determination to fight for a well future that this Labour Government will work hard every day to deliver . whether the people of Stratford and Bow be bear here , come here in search of a well life or just move to the good bit of London — whatever their start in life — I will ensure that their voice be hear and value . I pledge to work day in , day out to tackle the root cause of poverty , to fight for more police on our street so that woman and girl feel safe to walk home at night , parent do not have to worry about knife crime and young man be not have to look over their shoulder when they walk home after dark , and to fight for an NHS that be here for we in our time of need , where patient can be see in ward , not corridor . deliver my maiden speech during the GB energy debate be apt . climate change remain one of the great challenge of our time , and we must redouble our effort . before I come to this place , I work internationally on climate action with city around the world , the United Nations and civil society to help stop our world go past the point of no return and ensure that generation who come after we have a world that have not be destroy because of our failure to act or our fear of be bold . I feel deeply the responsibility that I have to repay the faith that the people of Stratford and Bow have place in I and the duty that I have to be their voice here in Westminster . I will work every day for that and for the value and pledge that I be elect on . thank you .