Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — high Education what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the high education challenge in Scotland . I know member across the House will join I in pay our respect to his Holiness Pope Francis . I offer my sincere condolence to Scotland ' s catholic community who have this Easter lose a much loved and compassionate leader . just before the Easter recess , I have the privilege of lead the UK Government delegation to Washington DC , then on to Tartan Week in New York . the trip be a key part of my drive to promote brand Scotland around the world , to boost economic growth and to create job here at home . finally , Mr Speaker , to you , to member across the House and to Scotland ' s close and most important neighbour , happy St George ' s day . I call Dr Scott Arthur . before you do so , Mr Speaker , I have well answer his question . [ laughter . ] too excited about St George ' s day so I be , Mr Speaker . we should all be proud of Scotland ' s university , the contribution they make to Scotland ' s public life and their reputation as the good in the world , but 18 year of the Scottish National party have leave some of those proud institution in dire strait . Job cut and course closure be the inevitable product of the SNP ' s decision to deliver a 22 % real term cut to scottish student funding since 2013 . Scotland ' s university , their staff and their student all need a Scottish Government with a proper plan to turn this crisis around ; they need a new direction with Scottish Labour . I thank the Secretary for State for his answer and for his comment about the Pope . I make my response within the context of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and I note my membership of the University and College Union . the university sector in Scotland have never be in a bad state . it be in a state of crisis , with job loss , both compulsory and voluntary , be contemplate across the whole sector in Scotland . it be young scot who be pay the price . to balance the book , the Scottish Government be limit the number of young scot who can go to university , force university to rely more and more on the recruitment of student from overseas . to be clear , that mean that scot be often sit at home unable to access a place because student from overseas with low qualification be get those place . do the Secretary of State agree that Scotland ' s young people must be support and the university sector must be fully fund in Scotland ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for what he do to support high education in Scotland . thank to the SNP ' s high education financial crisis , as my hon . Friend say , too many scottish student be miss out on place . labour have commit to ensure that scottish student from all background can access university , and that can only be achieve with a new funding settlement that both protect our world - lead university and give any scottish student who want to pursue university the opportunity to do so . I be proud to have make it from Wester Hailes education centre , in the Wester Hailes scheme , to the University of Edinburgh , but that story be become all too rare under the SNP Government . it be time for a new direction for scottish university . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark about the passing of his Holiness Pope Francis . I also wish all those not fortunate enough to have be bear north of Hadrian ' s wall a very happy St George ' s day . while he be not a graduate of the University of Aberdeen , like I the Secretary of State be a beneficiary of a scottish university education . Scotland have some of the fine and most respected high education establishment in the world , but as we see last week at the University of Aberdeen , in warning from the University of Edinburgh and , most starkly , at the University of Dundee , where over 600 job be be shed to make emergency saving , the current funding model , oversee by the SNP , be fail our institution and our young people . I know we agree on that , but will the Secretary of State also acknowledge the devastating impact on scottish university budget of his own Government ' s national insurance increase , add £ 45 million to their salary bill , or will he continue to defend that job - killing , anti - growth tax on worker ? the shadow Secretary of State be defend the SNP ' s dreadful record on high education in Scotland . it be clear from the principal of the University of Edinburgh , Sir Peter Mathieson , that the problem the university be have to deal with be cause by the underfunding of student from Scotland , which have mean the book have have to be balance with an ever - increase number of international student . the number of international student at the University of Edinburgh , for example , be still go up , although not as high as project , and that be the major cause of the financial problem at scottish university . the Conservatives would do well not to hide behind the SNP and support it in that process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment about the death of Pope Francis . in a rare consensus , I agree with much of what have be say by both the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State . many university be extremely concerned about the funding situation . many of my constituent who be employee of university or who have child at scottish university be concern , particularly follow the news of the 600 job cut at the University of Dundee . I have speak to the principal of the University of Edinburgh and he be also concerned about the funding model in Scotland , which be fail everyone . will the Secretary of State discuss with the Scottish Government how they can make change and put pressure on they to do so ? the national insurance change be not helpful , so it would help scottish education if we have some change there as well . the hon . Lady ' s question be slightly contradictory . on the one hand , she do not like the national insurance contribution increase , which have give the Scottish Government a £ 4 . 9 billion boost — the high settlement in the history of devolution . that money should be go to the frontline of high education , but it be not . on the other hand , she talk about a more generous funding settlement for university . she can not have it both way . the funding model must change , and the Scotland Office be in touch with all our university ' principal to see how we can work through this issue . this be a problem with the funding of high education as a result of SNP policy and the Scottish Government . I associate myself with the comment about the devastating loss of Pope Francis and the compassion that he show to the most vulnerable in our society . on a happy note , I wish all friend and family a very happy St George ' s day . I also note my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in relation to high education . the Secretary of State will know that the big financial impact on high education in Scotland have be Westminster policy , which be why the sector in the UK face some challenge . we have the national insurance increase , Brexit , which I know he passionately oppose — or use to , anyway — and the hostile environment . labour find common ground with Michael Gove on stick he into the House of Lords , but it also find common ground with he on his commitment to decentralise migration . that have have a particular impact on the high education sector , not least in Dundee , which have have the big financial hit . will the Secretary of State let we know what progress he have make on that commitment by Scottish Labour ? may I give the hon . Gentleman and all his SNP colleague our deep condolence on the loss of Christina McKelvie ? I think this be the first time that we have have scottish question since then . I say again that the hon . Gentleman and his SNP colleague vote against the Budget , which deliver an extra £ 4 . 9 billion for public service in Scotland . some of that should have go to frontline service , include to ensure that our high education sector be fund properly in the scottish context . the SNP be very good at blame everybody else for power that do not belong to it , but what it should actually do be get a mirror . in the last seven day , the only increase it have make in use the budget give to it be £ 20 , 000 on the salary of Scottish Government Ministers , who have all singularly fail . I thank the Secretary of State for his kind remark about the sad loss of Christina McKelvie . I also note the kind remark make by the Prime Minister ; the whole party be grateful for they . since the Labour Government do not want to talk about their commitment , let I help they out a little . we have time this Friday to discuss Scotland ' s migration need , with a Bill back by the care , hospitality and tourism sector . internationalisation in education and research be crucial , so in a spirit of collegiality , instead of pander to Reform as Scottish Labour too often do on migration and our relationship with the EU , will the Secretary of State work with we ahead of the Bill on Friday so that we can find some common cause to help the high education sector ? there be complete denial about the problem in the high education sector , which be devolve to the Scottish Government . we have make it clear that the immigration system we inherit from the previous Government be not work , that net migration be too high and that the interaction between migration and skill in the labour market be break , so confidence in the whole system need to be rebuild . work be under way in government to link the work of Skills England and its equivalent , the Migration Advisory Committee , the Industrial Strategy Council and the Department for Work and Pensions to form a new framework to identify sector that either do or do not have the adequate workforce , as well as skill strategy for the future workforce . there have be an overreliance on international recruitment . lot of young people in Scotland — nearly one in six — be not in education , employment or training . that be a shamble . it should be Scotland ' s shame , and we need to do something about it . cancer Strategies whether he have have recent discussion with the Scottish Government on the implementation of cancer strategy . I commend the hon . member for the consistent attention he have pay to this issue since he be elect last year and for educate we on it . cancer remain Scotland ' s big killer , with Cancer Research UK report that scot be receive bad cancer treatment than their neighbour in other part of the UK . the national cancer plan for England will save life that would otherwise be lose to cancer and deliver improve care and patient experience . last year , a UK Labour Budget deliver the big settlement for scottish public service in the history of devolution . it be time for the Scottish Government to step up and get serious about cancer . I thank the Minister for her reply and very kind remark . as in Wales and England , not a single NHS board in Scotland be meet the 62 - day cancer waiting time standard . that be a legacy of under - investment from the SNP in Scotland , from Labour in Wales , and from the Conservatives in England . to develop change and save life , we need proper funding for cancer service . how will the Secretary of State for Scotland ensure that his colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care understand the importance of fully fund cancer strategy to avoid disaster like that devise by the SNP ? I assure the hon . member that this be a priority for the Government , but as healthcare be a devolved matter , the Scottish Government be responsible for their own cancer strategy , include diagnostic service in Scotland . in England , improve early diagnosis of cancer — include breast cancer — be a priority for the UK Government , who be commit to transform diagnostic service and will support the NHS to meet the demand for diagnostic service through investment in new capacity , include MRI and CT scanner . my constituent Stephen find out that he have prostate cancer almost by accident when he be treat for something else . thankfully , it be diagnose early and he be on his way to a good outcome . despite prostate cancer be the most common cancer for man in Scotland , it be not one of the tumour type that have be promote for early diagnosis in the current Scottish Government cancer strategy . will the Minister encourage the Scottish Government to make specific reference to prostate cancer when promote early diagnosis ? I commend my hon . friend for her commitment to her constituent , and pass on the good wish of the whole House to Stephen in his recovery . her constituent , like mine , be constantly on the receive end of late diagnosis because of the underfunding of cancer service that the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) have mention . we will , of course , continue to raise this issue with the Scottish Government as part of our ongoing commitment to deal with Scotland ' s big killer , which be cancer . Barnett Formula : NHS funding what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the impact of the Barnett formula on funding for the NHS in Scotland . thank to the Barnett formula , a Labour Chancellor and 37 Scottish Labour mps , Scotland ' s public service have receive the big ever financial settlement from the UK Government , but how have the SNP spend it ? well , despite the good effort of our extraordinary nhs staff , every week , thousand of Scots will wait more than eight hour in A & E , and more than 100 , 000 scot have be stick on an NHS waiting list for over a year . doctor , nurse and — most of all — scottish patient have be fail by 18 year of SNP mismanagement . we desperately need a new direction . there have be a noticeable increase in the number of people contact my office about access GP service , and about long waiting time for hospital appointment and operation . those who live in the Isle of Arran and actually get an appointment often can not get to it , because they can not get a ferry there and back on the same day . that be a different point , but as a former manager in the NHS , I have see the consequence of the shortage of GPs in Scotland . there have be a recent successful recruitment campaign in different part of England ; do the Minister agree that it be time for the Scottish Government to utilise the Barnett consequential in order to improve access to NHS service in Scotland through robust workforce planning , and to follow the example of the NHS in England and get GPs successfully recruit ? I thank my hon . friend , not just for her service to her constituent but her previous service in the NHS . as she have note , thank to Labour , NHS waiting list in England have fall month on month , because this Government have a plan and we have invest . sadly , it be a completely different story in Scotland , as she have point out . like mine , her constituent see a situation in which almost one in six people be now stick on a waiting list . John Swinney have announce this SNP Government ' s fifth NHS recovery plan in less than four year , but patient and staff know that it be not good enough , and we need a new direction . the Minister be right to speak of the wonderful NHS staff that we have , but she also speak of a new direction that be require . let I give the House a clue as to what new direction she might be speak of . the Good Law Project reveal this month that more than 60 % of donation to labour ' s Health Secretary , total £ 372 , 000 , come from individual and company link to the private healthcare sector . as the same Labour Health Secretary be so fond of say , all road lead to Westminster , include on NHS funding . with cut to public service come down the line , be the Secretary of State — or the Minister — worry about the influence of private health donor on Cabinet colleague ? the hon . Gentleman say that there have be cut to public service . let I put on record once again that this Labour Government pledge to end austerity , and we have , with a record settlement for Scotland ' s public service . that money have be squander by the SNP Government , such that we be still in a situation where nearly one in six scot be on a waiting list . south of the border , waiting list have fall for the fifth month in a row . that be the difference make by a Labour Government with a plan and a willingness to fund it . North Sea Oil and Gas Licences : economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential impact of not issue new North sea oil and gas licence on level of economic growth in Scotland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of not issue new North sea oil and gas licence on level of economic growth in Scotland . I be proud of the enormous contribution North sea worker have make to our country . oil and gas will be an important part of our energy mix for decade to come . we have a workforce who lead the world , and we be determined to secure their long - term future in the energy industry , include oil and gas . the UK Government will soon respond to our recent consultation on support the energy transition in the North sea , and I be in the north - east tomorrow , turn on a wind farm and also meet leader in the oil and gas sector . if the UK achieve net zero in 2050 , we will still consume about 14 billion barrel of oil and gas a year . we be currently on track to produce 4 billion barrel a year . will the Secretary of State explain why he prefer to import our energy , rather than produce it ourselves ? the national mission of this Labour Government be to get to clean power by 2030 , but that mean three thing : renewable power , nuclear power , and oil and gas . as I have say already , oil and gas will be with we in the Scottish and UK context for decade to come . a recent report by Offshore Energies UK show that if the UK oil and gas basin continue to be use until 2050 , it could produce half our oil and gas need . that would do wonder for job in the north - east of Scotland , the north - east economy , our energy security and the energy transition , and it would also bring in £ 12 billion to the Treasury . on top of that , it would bring in £ 150 billion of economic growth to the UK , which I be sure everyone in this House and the Government would welcome . will the Secretary of State please have a word with the Energy Secretary and ask he to stop his policy , which be continue to ruin our oil and gas sector , and for once back north - east Scotland ? on the oil and gas sector in 2050 , I have already mention at the Dispatch Box , as have the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , that oil and gas will be with we for decade to come , include to 2050 . do my right hon . friend agree that there be an opportunity for significant economic growth in Scotland from get right a just transition from oil and gas to clean power ? in my constituency , the landing space at the port of Leith previously use by the oil and gas sector have be transform by investment from Forth Ports into the large renewable hub in Scotland . will he join I in welcome this investment in Leith , and will he outline how his Department will help secure every job possible in the transition from oil and gas ? I commend my hon . friend on the work she be do , particularly in the port of Leith , to ensure that we can have the transition and have it well . she highlight the important thing about this issue and debate : the energy mix require we to have renewable power and clean energy by 2030 , but it also require we to have nuclear power and oil and gas . the energy mix mean that we do it all ; it be not either / or . the Secretary of State rightly outline how important the oil and gas sector be to Scotland , and to the worker and business that rely on it , but if we be to have a truly just transition , we need to invest in new technology such as hydrogen . will he , therefore , join I in welcome the shortlisting of the Selms Muir hydrogen project in Livingston for UK Government support , and outline how that will benefit my constituency ? on 7 April , the UK Government announce that eight scottish project have be shortlist for the next stage of the hydrogen allocation round 2 process . my ministerial colleague and I look forward to work with industry to deliver our vision for a thriving low - carbon , hydrogen economy in the UK . I commend my hon . friend on the work he have do in push forward the project in his constituency . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Secretary of State agree with the scottish Labour leader , who say there be no question but that there have to be new oil and gas , or do he agree with his colleague the Energy Secretary , who have ban new licence in the North sea and be oversee the accelerate decline of the UK ' s oil and gas basin ? the Energy Secretary and his Department be involve in a consultation on the just transition at the moment , but I go back to my early answer : if we be to get clean power by 2030 and to have an energy mix in this country , we require oil and gas , we require renewable and we require nuclear . it be a simple process . I think we all hear that , and I be sure Anas Sarwar do . the Secretary of State be unable to agree with his own leader in Scotland , and be so in hock to the UK Labour party that he can not stand up for scottish worker or the scottish oil and gas industry . it have always be the party interest over the national interest for Labour , with no notice take of the Scottish Labour party . ten year ago , the Scottish Labour party be describe by its own leader as be simply the " branch office " . nothing have change , have it ? the Government ' s sole purpose initially , in their first few month in office , be to clear up the mess that the hon . Gentleman ' s party leave in this country , include the £ 22 billion black hole . we will get on with deliver our mission , include clean power by 2030 . that be what we be focus on , because that be what be good for job , good for bill and good for the environment . Plant and Seed Nurseries : Northern Ireland what assessment he have make of the adequacy of support available to scottish plant and seed nursery to sell product to Northern Ireland . under the Windsor framework arrangement , the Northern Ireland plant health label allow grower and trader to move plant and seed for plant from Great Britain to Northern Ireland without a phytosanitary certificate , and scottish business have benefit from that . for example , more than 1 , 500 tonne of previously prohibit seed potato , mostly from scottish trader , be move to Northern Ireland from Great Britain last year . as the Minister will know , accord to McIntyre Fruit in Scotland , which also sell plant , it be easy to supply Japan than to send plant to Coleman ' s garden centre in my constituency , and the same company be now see order cancel in Northern Ireland . at the weekend , ewe ' s Seafoods , Northern Ireland ' s old fishmonger , have a 40 - foot container fill with hundred of thousand of pound of fresh fish return from Belfast to Scotland owe to administrative paperwork error on seven box . will the Minister , or the Secretary of State , meet I and representative of those company to discuss what can be do to ease the bureaucratic burden on both Northern Ireland and scottish business ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . Gentleman , but let I reassure he : the horticultural working group , co - chair by senior official from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Cabinet Office , be set up specifically to tackle issue involve the movement of seed to consumer in Northern Ireland as a first priority . the hon . Gentleman have also mention other topic , and I should be happy to meet he to discuss they , too . the work group meet regularly to address such issue , and include representative of the Ulster Farmers Union , the National Farmers Union and the Horticultural Trades Association , as well as business leader and representative of a small number of other horticultural business . Scotland produce world - class potato , which be supply to our iconic fish and chip shop , such as the Real Food Caf é and the Green welly stop in Tyndrum , Vincenzo ' s Fish and Chips in Stirling — its fish supper win an award last year — and Corrieri ' s in Causewayhead ; Robert and Peter Corrieri will retire this year after decade of service . will the Minister recognise their value to our local economy , and assure I that more can be do to support the supply chain link scottish grower with these much - love business ? as my hon . friend know , potato be a staple of our national dish , haggis , neep and tattie . they be also a staple of my favourite breakfast , the dry potato scone . I be delighted to join my hon . friend in recognise all the fish and chip shop in his constituency , and I would be delighted to accept invitation to a tour of fish and chip shop from any colleague on either side of the House who recognise their vital contribution . export : impact of US Tariffs what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of US tariff on Scotland ' s export to that country . we know that this will be a concern time for business in Scotland . in 2024 , 12 . 3 % of good export from Scotland be export to the United States . that be why the UK Government be focus on negotiate an economic deal with the US . as the Business and Trade Secretary make clear in his statement to the House on 3 April , the Government be resolute in our support for industry throughout the United Kingdom , and Ministers and official will continue to engage with business to understand the impact that these tariff may have . may I associate myself with the comment about Pope Francis and Christina McKelvie , and wish you , Mr Speaker , a happy St George ' s day ? it be very important that we all celebrate our national identity but still come together as one United Kingdom . I hope that the Secretary of State and I be not too optimistic in our last exchange about trade with the US , in which we hope that the Trump Administration would be a boost for scottish business in the United States . what be he do in the UK ' s discussion with the United States to ensure that specific scottish interest , such as those of the whisky industry , be part of the arrangement ? as I have say at the Dispatch Box before , it be vital that we do all we can to strengthen our diplomatic , cultural and business tie with the United States . I be in Washington and New York for Tartan Week in the week when tariff be impose on the rest of the world , and I make the case for Scotch whisky and scottish business in particular . we be engage with scottish exporter and industry representative to assess the potential impact of US tariff , and remain in contact with US counterpart . our pragmatic and calm approach have be overwhelmingly welcome by business and industry . we will not address this important issue in a knee - jerk way to get retweet , unlike some other in this House . will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the pragmatic and calm approach of our Prime Minister to this issue ? he be work in the clear interest of business and consumer , in contrast to Opposition Members , who seem interested only in social medium and quick headline . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . the pragmatic approach of the Prime Minister and this Government to this issue have be welcome by industry and business right across the United Kingdom . that be in the national interest of the UK . we work very hard together to make sure that the impact of US tariff on the UK be not as bad as we think they might be . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 23 April . the entire House will join I in pay tribute to his Holiness Pope Francis , an extraordinary man . his lifelong work on fairness will leave a last legacy . People of all background and belief be inspire by his humility and compassion , and the outpouring of grief and love that we have see in the last two day or so show the respect and admiration that he be hold in around the world . I will attend his funeral on Saturday and pay tribute to his courage and leadership . may his Holiness rest in peace . I also wish everyone in England a very happy St George ' s day . there be a lot to celebrate : our history , our value and our culture . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I also wish those in the Chamber a happy St George ' s day ? after a cost of living crisis oversee by the chaotic Conservative Government , many in the tourist industry in Torbay believe that they have weather the storm , as do those in Devon and Cornwall . however , many in the tourist industry in Torbay fear that the Government ' s national insurance contribution hike and effective job tax could be the last nail in the coffin for some of those business . in the light of that , will the Prime Minister give I the pleasure of show he round Paignton zoo this summer , so he can see this outstanding , amazing tourist attraction in Torbay ? it be one of many across the west of England that , sadly , be massively impact by the job tax . may I start by wish Jennie , the hon . Gentleman ' s guide dog , a very happy birthday for yesterday ? she be six year old — although she do not look particularly interested in my answer , I have to say . I recognise the importance of tourism to the hon . Gentleman ' s beautiful constituency — I have be there many time , and work there for a short time — in drive growth and create job . we have announce a new Visitor Economy Advisory Council , which will work with business to deliver a new strategy that be focus on support growth and the tourism industry . VisitBritain have also launch a new international marketing campaign to showcase Britain ' s incredible heritage , culture and landscape , and I know the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism will be happy to keep the hon . Gentleman update . the criminal injury compensation scheme have not be uprate with inflation since 2012 , which mean that in real term , compensation for victim of violent crime , include rape and child abuse , be worth less than half of what it be then . the consultation response publish before Easter say that there be not the money to look at change the scope , tariff or time limit , despite expert advice and the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . will the Prime Minister commit to properly fund the Ministry of Justice to do this vital reform work , so that victim and their need can become a priority , instead of an afterthought ? my hon . friend know my personal commitment to deliver justice for victim of crime , who have be completely fail over the last 14 year . we be improve access to compensation through well online system , and be equip staff with the skill that they need to well support victim . we be of course also consult on a revise victim code , which will increase the power of the Victims ' commissioner to ensure more accountability . I be happy to ensure that she meet the relevant Minister to discuss those issue . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I , too , wish everyone a happy St George ' s day . can I also associate myself with the remark about the passing of his Holiness Pope Francis on Easter Monday ? be married to a Catholic , I know the profound loss for million in Britain and across the world . do the Prime Minister now accept that when he say that it be the law that trans woman be woman , he be wrong ? let I be clear : I welcome the Supreme Court ruling on this issue . it bring clarity , and it will give confidence to woman , and of course to service provider . the Equality and Human Rights Commission will now issue update guidance . it be important that that happen , and that all service provider then act accordingly . this Government ' s approach , and my approach , have be as follow : to support and implement the Supreme Court ruling , and we will ; to continue to protect single - sex space base on biological sex , and we will ; to ensure that trans people be treat with respect , and we will ; and to ensure that everybody be give dignity in their everyday life . I do think this be the time to lower the temperature , move forward and conduct this debate with the care and compassion that it deserve , and I think that should unite the whole House . the Prime Minister can not bring himself to admit that he be wrong ; that be the question . he speak about respect and dignity , compassion and lower the temperature , so will he now apologise to the very brave hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) for hound she out of the Labour party simply for tell the truth ? I have always approach this on the basis that we should treat everyone with dignity and respect , whatever their different view , and I will continue to do so . I will tell you , Mr Speaker , why : because when we lose sight of that approach and make this a political football , as happen in the past , we end up with the spectacle of a decent man — and he be a decent man , the previous Prime Minister — diminish himself at this Dispatch Box by make trans joke while the mother of a murder trans teenager watch from the Public Gallery just up there . that will never be my approach . my approach will be to support the ruling , protect single - sex space and treat everybody with dignity and respect , and I believe there be a consensus in this House and the country on that approach . there be no apology to the hon . member for Canterbury . there be no taking of responsibility . the Prime Minister talk about political football ; he practically kick she out of his party — constructive dismissal . he talk about my predecessor . what about the abuse I face from his mps , who call I a transphobe for support what the Supreme Court have now clarify , to use his word ? and where be he ? he hide for six day without comment on the Supreme Court judgment . why do it take he so long to respond ? be it not because he be scared ? the only fiction here be the idea that the right hon . Member deliver anything in office . she hold the post of Minister for Women and Equalities for two year , and she do precisely nothing . she provide no clarity on the law , and do nothing to improve woman ' s life , which get materially bad under her watch . for example , the opposition talk about hospital and mixed - sex ward , up hill and down dale . what happen in the last decade ? the use of mixed - sex ward in our NHS rise by 2 , 000 % . there be a pattern of behaviour here : the Women and Equalities Minister who fail to do anything for woman ; the Trade Minister who fail to get a trade deal with the US ; the Business Minister who fail to get a deal with British Steel . she be a spectator , not a leader . I will tell the Prime Minister what I do . I stop the gender — [ interruption . ] I will , I will . when his labour leader in Scotland be whip his msp to get male rapist into woman ' s prison , I stop that gender recognition Bill . I help commission the Cass review . I replace the guidance on single - sex toilet . I make sure that the puberty blocker issue be resolve , while he be sit there cheer on the ideology that be take away safe space . and when the Prime Minister stay silent last week , presumably wait to hear what Morgan McSweeney think , on his WhatsApp group some of his close Ministers be plot to overturn the Supreme Court decision . Labour MP after Labour MP stand up yesterday and challenge the ruling . how can we take his government seriously on this ? I think the WhatsApp group the right hon . Lady should be worried about be the one with her shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . the mask have slip , just one week before the election . the shadow Justice Secretary be not here . a man who be do everything he can to replace she , the man that most conservative Members want as leader of their party , have admit that Reform and the Tories be work together . he say : " I want the fight to be unite . " he say he be determined " to bring this coalition " , as he call it , " together … one way or another " . well , I think we know what that mean . every Tory voter be appal at the thought of pay for the NHS ; every reform voter hate what the Tories do for the last 14 year . they be not conservative ; they be a con . who be play political football now ? the Prime Minister have no answer . yesterday , Labour MP after Labour MP challenge the ruling . he should be more worried about his Back Benchers than my Front Benchers . his Labour Ministers call the chair of the Equality and Human Rights Commission " appal " . Baroness Falkner ' s role be critical to enforce the Court ' s judgment . she have have to put up with relentless abuse , not just from his Front Bench but from activist and ideologue . reappointe she would be a clear sign that he be take this issue seriously , so will he commit to reappointe Baroness Falkner when her term expire this year ? I have always say that the debate should be conduct properly , on the principle . I have say it many , many time . I would remind the Leader of the Opposition that when they be in government , violence against woman and girl reach record high , rape prosecution fall to record low , and million of woman be leave stuck on NHS waiting list , unable to get the healthcare they need . under this Labour Government , NHS waiting list be down by more than 200 , 000 , and there be domestic abuse specialist in 999 control room . we strengthen access to maternity pay , something she call excessive . she talk about political football , but a coalition of Reform and the Tories be be form behind her back . we know what it mean when the shadow Justice Secretary and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) cook up a joint manifesto : NHS charging , pro - russia foreign policy , and an end to worker ’ right . just as the previous Government lose control of the economy , border and health , in six short month she have lose control of her party . the Prime Minister be clearly so uncomfortable talk about this subject . this be a choice between a conservative party that stand up for common sense and a Labour party that bend the knee to every pass fad . this be a question about moral courage , and do the right thing even when it be difficult . the truth be he doesn ' t have the ball . the Prime Minister only tell people what they want to hear . he be a weathervane ; he twist in the wind . he cheer an ideology that deny safe space to woman and girl , because he think it be cool to do so . he hound a brave female MP out of his party for tell the truth he accept now . and now , he be hide behind the Supreme Court judgment . be that not because he do not know what he actually believe ? I can only assume that that sound well when the right hon . Lady say it in the mirror early . the truth be , it do not really matter what she say , because nobody — none of they behind she — believe that she be go to lead they into the next election anyway . it will be the shadow Justice Secretary , who be away plot — that be why he be not here today — and the hon . member for Clacton fight over the bone of the Tory party . the Conservatives think reform will give they its vote without change their policy — absolutely no way . the hon . member for Clacton will do what he always do : eat the Tory party for breakfast . I wish you , Mr Speaker , and the House a happy St George ' s day . I recently have the pleasure of visit the National Gas operation in Peterborough , where the company be announce a £ 350 million investment in the UK , include at least 100 new job in my constituency . the investment will make Peterborough the centre of the nation ' s core gas and hydrogen network . one of the big challenge face by infrastructure project be the lack of available skill and training for young people . what more can the Prime Minister do to boost apprenticeship in place such as my constituency to ensure we create the opportunity this country so desperately need ? the net zero transition be a huge economic opportunity for this country , despite the naysayer on the Opposition Benches . we have have almost £ 44 billion of investment since July , which will deliver job across the country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency — investment that the opposition presumably do not want . we be ensure we have the skilled worker that we need , launch Skills England and our new growth and skill offer to encourage even more apprenticeship , and support the industry - lead plan for hydrogen to deliver the workforce need for the industry of the future . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I also wish the House and the country a happy St George ' s day , and join the Prime Minister in pay tribute to the late Pope Francis . as a Christian , I find his compassion absolutely inspiring . my prayer be with Catholics in the UK and across the world , who will feel his loss particularly deeply . I have previously raise with the Prime Minister the issue of North Devon district hospital . the previous Government promise to rebuild it , as they do hospital across the south - west , in place such as Torbay and Musgrove Park . unfortunately , they break that promise , leave appalling condition like sewage leak and patient be treat in corridor . will the Prime Minister reconsider his decision to delay far the construction of new hospital , and ask his mps to vote for our motion today for new hospital ? the previous programme , introduce by the Conservative party , be undeliverable and unaffordable , as I think the right hon . Gentleman know and accept . we have put the new hospital programme on a sustainable footing with a timeline that can be meet — we be not prepared to trade on false promise , as the Conservatives do — and obviously we have also put record investment into the NHS . I gently urge the right hon . gentleman to one day get a bit more serious about the funding of these measure . every week , he come to the Chamber to push I on two issue : he push I to spend a lot more money , but at the same time , in the next breath , he oppose the measure in the Budget to raise the necessary money . unlike the Prime Minister , we have a fund programme at the election . I be disappoint with his reply — I hope he will actually visit some of these hospital to see the urgent need for rebuild . at Merton Mead farm in Oxfordshire last week , I see world - class british beef farmer at work . farmer want the Prime Minister to be careful in a trade deal with President Trump . they be let down by the Conservatives ' appal trade deal and worry that a bad US deal could allow american agribusiness to undercut they with inferior meat . will the Prime Minister guarantee a vote in this House on any trade deal that he agree with the United States ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a point that be of real interest and importance to farmer . we will negotiate , as he would expect , in the national interest and uphold the high animal welfare standard . we be make progress on that , and there will then be a process if a deal be reach . this time last year , train manufacturing at Alstom in Derby be grind to a halt . on a single day , worker with a combine welding experience of nearly 1 , 000 year walk out of its door , but the whole city come together with crucial backing from this Prime Minister . what a difference a year make , with Alstom save and set to host the great gathering to celebrate 200 year of rail and our railway come back into public ownership , with the headquarters of great British Railways in Derby . do the Prime Minister agree that , with Labour , we be back on track ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for Derby . she be right : whether it be the workforce I meet at Alstom or the worker at Hitachi in County Durham , we will support our rail industry , provide certainty that deliver job , investment and security . I meet those workforce . I know how worried they be a year ago , as she rightly say , when the previous Government be in charge . I be really proud that Derby will be the home of great British Railways , because we be bring railway back into public ownership to provide well service for passenger , cut delay and cancellation and boost growth across the country . I and my party join the Prime Minister in his condolence for the passing of his Holiness Pope Francis . the Prime Minister have often refer to his time work in Northern Ireland , and I have speak to one of his boss , who speak of his diligence . in that vein , could he speak to his Northern Ireland team about their understanding of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement ? in an interview , the Secretary of State seem to think that it have be negotiate by Ian Paisley , rather than David Trimble and my party . his Northern Ireland Minister say at the start of this week that the future of Northern Ireland as part of the Union be dependent on opinion poll and she be not sure whether she be a Unionist . will the Prime Minister confirm to I his understanding of the principle of consent and confirm to this House that he be a Unionist ? I thank the hon . member for that question . I do work in Northern Ireland for five year and therefore appreciate at first hand how important these issue be . it be a very formative period for I in term of my career and my thinking . the Good Friday agreement be one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government . I pay tribute to everybody who help to bring that about , because , as the hon . Member and other Members will know , it be such an important moment in the history of the conflict . I absolutely stand four - square behind its principle , some of which I be do my part to help implement when I be work in Northern Ireland , and they will always drive I on the issue that he raise with I . Happy St George ' s Day , Mr Speaker . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about Pope Francis ? after 14 year of a Conservative Government , too many of my constituent live on low income or in real poverty . I very much welcome the employment support proposal in the welfare Green Paper , but the Government have to be clear about the real opportunity they be offer to the more than 3 million family who they say will lose out financially as a result of this package . before ask mp to vote , can the Prime Minister confirm that we will see fresh analysis from the Office for Budget Responsibility , evidence on who will be affect by the personal independence payment change , and the Government ' s own assessment of the employment impact of their measure ? will he confirm that this policy will not result in increase experience of poverty ? we be reform a broken system — the system that we inherit . I think most people accept that it need reform , because it trap people in unemployment and inactivity , and we need to reform it for that reason . the principle will be that we will provide support where support be need . where people want to get into work , we will help they into work . the current system operate against people who want to get into work and make that transition ; if they can work , they should work . move into work be what halve the risk of be in poverty , and that be why we have invest £ 1 billion in tailor employment support . of course , we be also introduce a new premium for those with the most severe lifelong disability who will never be able to work . last week , former steelworker in Port Talbot watch in dismay as this Government deem their livelihood worth less than those in Scunthorpe . freedom of information request reveal that the UK Government do not know how their funding for reskille worker in Wales be be use or even how many people be be retrain , and we know that concern have be raise by the transition board . if the Government can not explain how they be help Port Talbot ' s lay - off worker to build a future through reskille , why should those worker not come to the logical conclusion that Labour have abandon they ? the right hon . member raise an important issue . I visit Port Talbot a number of time and hear at first hand from the workforce . she may or may not know that even in opposition , before the election , I be talk to the owner to try to persuade they to delay their decision , because I know an election be come . that be how important I think it be . I remind she that at the same time , the then Prime Minister refuse to pick up a call to the First Minister even to discuss the issue . I take a different approach , because I realise just how important it be . the right hon . Lady compare the situation with the decision we take last week , but I remind she that the blast furnace be turn off in January last year and the coke oven in March 2024 , which be before the election . that be the very thing I be try to ensure do not happen , for reason that she and the workforce will understand , and I be talk to the workforce throughout . since then we have be able to negotiate an improved deal with Tata that mean well term for the worker , and we do that within 10 week . we be work hard to maximise opportunity from the £ 1 . 25 billion investment in an electric arc furnace , we be support those face job loss with £ 80 million of funding to learn new skill , and we be support the supply chain and protect community . the right hon . Lady talk about protect work people , but she vote against the big devolution settlement since devolution . that include more money for public service , include the NHS , and her party vote against it . I commend the Prime Minister and his Government for the action take to reform the NHS in England and make it fit for the modern day , with improved technology , more gps and appointment , and waiting list cut for consecutive month . however , it be deeply unfortunate that in Scotland the SNP Government have make the political choice to waste taxpayer money on vanity project , flawed legislation and fail court case rather than focus on improve our health service . do the Prime Minister agree that the people of Airdrie and Shotts , who have be promise a new hospital for almost a decade , deserve far well than to suffer in pain while on waiting list or to receive treatment in crumble building as a direct consequence of SNP incompetence ? my hon . friend be a real champion for Airdrie and Shotts . over 60 , 000 scot have be stick , wait for test or treatment for over a year , which be a 46 % rise in one year . almost 50 , 000 few operation have be carry out compare with before the pandemic . to compare what the SNP be do with what we be do here in England , we have drive down waiting list within six month , with six month in a row of reduction , and we have over 3 million extra appointment . Scotland ' s NHS urgently need change , but the SNP have no strategy or plan — it have absolutely no idea . the danger pose by China to our national security be self - evident . can the Prime Minister explain why he and his Government have choose to treat Beijing as a business partner and not as the hostile state that it truly be ? I have set out our approach to China a number of time . it be not materially different from the approach in the last year of the previous Government , I might add . in relation to Scunthorpe , the deal that we have to deal with during recess be the deal negotiate by the last government . we have take sensible decision in the national interest and will continue to do so . I be sure the Prime Minister will join I in celebrate the opening of the new Brixton blood donation centre in my constituency , which in three month have see over 3 , 700 people donate , more than 1 , 000 of they first - timer and 10 % of they black . however , give that sickle cell anaemia be the fast grow genetic condition in the UK , that be not enough . demand for the Ro blood subtype — more common in people of african descent — be rise by 10 % to 15 % annually , and it be crucial for treat sickle cell . rule around traveller as well as inaccurate iron test mean that we be see willing black donor turn away for four to 12 month . of course blood donation must be safe , but failure to review the guideline be cost life . will the Prime Minister commit to review the rule and join I in call on you , Mr Speaker , to help we all play our part by facilitate a biannual blood drive in Parliament ? I be try to arrange that . I will leave that to you , Mr Speaker . I do not think it be for I to suggest that you donate your blood , although I be sure that you do and that we can support this jointly . we should take that up across the House under your leadership , Mr Speaker . let I join my hon . friend in welcome the new Brixton blood donor centre and the lifesaving support that it provide . increase donor diversity be a priority for the NHS , and we be work to increase Ro blood donation by engage with community who be more likely to have that blood type . I will ensure that she meet the relevant Health Minister to discuss what more we can do in this area . british government of all political persuasion have long take pride in reduce the carbon footprint of the british manufacturing industry . unfortunately , in too many case , too much of that so - call reduction have be achieve by drive british industry abroad to country such as China and India that actually use more carbon to produce the same product — British Steel be just the late example of that — which be bad for the global environment and disastrous for the british economy . that be against a background of european carbon policy that have fail over 20 year . do the Prime Minister have a new domestic british policy that will protect british industry from this disastrous long - term trend ? we be do everything available to we to protect car building in this country . the right hon . Gentleman will have notice that two week ago , I make announcement about the zero emission vehicle mandate and what more we could do to support the industry . that be an immediate response to circumstance as they be , but I indicate at the time — and I do so again — that we will do whatever it take to support our car industry . my constituent Billy spend month try to see a gp to investigate his symptom . it take four month of telephone appointment before he be finally see in person and get the test that diagnose stage 4 cancer . that delay in diagnosis have dramatically change the prognosis , and as someone who have become a friend , it hurt I to see the pain that he be now live in . do the Prime Minister agree that primary care be a vital part of the healthcare system and that we need wide access to both in - person and telephone appointment ? I be deeply sorry to hear about Billy ' s case ; I be sure the whole House be . our focus have to be on make sure that GPs spend more time care for patient . that include the investment of an additional £ 889 million in general practice in England , which have put over 1 , 500 gps into surgery since October . we do deliver a record settlement for Scotland ' s public service to help fix our nhs and ensure that people like Billy get the care that they deserve . through the age , an innovative and vibrant City of London have underpin investment and growth in the wide economy , but the main challenge the City currently face be how to get more capital into capital market . like many , I believe that London could gain new momentum if the Government take bold action to challenge and empower those who steward our pension asset to do thing in new way . follow the Chancellor ' s decision to offer continuity of leadership at the Financial Conduct Authority , will the Prime Minister convene an urgent no . 10 summit with City leader and the regulator to provide a reset and to maximise the chance that the City can lead economic growth and recovery in these time of grave uncertainty and turmoil ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that we need to go far and fast in kick - start growth and attract the investment we need to create job , and that our regulator must regulate for growth and not just for risk . we do want that continuity of leadership that he mention , and we be convene and get people together to drive growth . we will take away the idea that he put on the table . propose change to personal independence payment mean that people who require various level of support due to lifelong condition such as learn disability will not meet the new eligibility criterion . however , the Green Paper introduce a group of people with lifelong condition who will not be subject to reassessment . can the Prime Minister confirm that people with a learn disability — a lifelong condition that will not change — will be include in the group of claimant who will not be subject to repeat reassessment ? I thank my hon . friend for her question ; I know this issue mean a lot to she . we be clear on the principle for reform : protect those with the most severe disability , who will never be able to work , as she refer to , and make sure that people with the most severe disability and health condition will never again face the prospect of be constantly reassess . we be make sure that extra financial support be base on the impact of a health condition or disability , not the capacity to work , and I can reassure she that we be carefully consider option for transitional protection . his Chancellor ' s economic policy start off badly and have head rapidly downhill from there , his Energy Secretary ' s policy ensure that energy - rich Scotland live under the high domestic and commercial energy price in the world , and his Foreign Secretary provide diplomatic cover for the atrocity commit in Gaza by the Israel Defence Forces , to the horror of the people of Scotland , but the Prime Minister be the incompetent - in - chief who refuse to bring his Ministers into line . that be just one of the reason why independence enjoy an 11 - point lead over remain in this dysfunctional , break , Brexit Britain . do he understand why the people of Scotland be so dissatisfied with his late iteration of dysfunctional british rule in Scotland ? do the hon . Gentleman understand that the electorate in Scotland answer that question in July of last year ? I remember that there use to be quite a few SNP Members sit on the Opposition Benches ; now it be a distant cry from up on the Back Benches . last week , humanitarian law organisation apply for an arrest warrant for israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa ' ar over allege war crime in Gaza , include the siege of Kamal Adwan hospital and the torture of its director , Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , yet the red carpet be roll out . Sa ' ar have justify block vital humanitarian aid into Gaza , back the illegal annexation of palestinian land and reject a palestinian state . the Prime Minister be a human right lawyer , so surely he know that the UK have a legal duty to uphold international law . why , then , do he block the arrest of an unindicted war criminal ? I didn ' t . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you , like I , have long be a supporter of Britain ' s nuclear test veteran , so I wonder whether you could advise I . give that government lawyer have finally admit , after 73 year of denial , that test may have take place at the time that those veteran be in the south Atlantic — they say that " information may have be record by scientist carry out radiation monitoring " — surely a statement in the House by a Government Minister be require . how can I facilitate that ? [ Official Report , 25 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 14wc . ] ( Correction ) I do not think I even need to answer that ; the right hon . Gentleman be a man who know how to facilitate that , and I know the matter will not end here . that be not a point of order for the Chair , and I be not carry on question , but he have certainly get the matter on the record and I know he will now pursue it in the many way available to he . Bill present Chalk Streams ( Sewerage Investment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Daisy Cooper present a Bill to require water company to prioritise area with chalk stream and related habitat when invest in new and upgrade sewerage system , include foul water leak prevention and the replacement or upgrading of porous sewage pipeline ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July and to be print ( Bill 223 ) . Interpersonal Abuse and Violence against Men and Boys ( Strategy ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 12 . 39 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to prepare and publish a strategy for tackle interpersonal abuse and violence against man and boy ; and for connected purpose . this Labour Government have pledge to halve instance of violence against woman and girl , an intent that I have no doubt those on both side of this House be fully able to support . the aim of this Bill be to tackle an aspect of the current violence against woman and girl strategy — an aspect that make no sense and that it be essential for the Government to address . the violence against woman and girl strategy currently include male victim of violence against woman and girl . the Government still define violence against woman and girl , or VAWG , as a category of crime which disproportionately affect woman . therefore , all victim of crime such as domestic abuse , rape , sexual assault , digital image abuse , force marriage and honour - base violence , include man and boy , be consider victim of VAWG . I want to make it clear that this Bill in no way detract from the work already do and still to be do in tackle violence against woman and girl ; the Bill simply aim to ensure that male victim of those crime have a dedicated strategy that reflect the differ nature of their circumstance and ensure that male survivor be recognise and receive appropriate support . the current mis - categorisation force male victim into space and discussion that may more appropriately be reserve for woman . at present the Government have no dedicated strategy for tackle interpersonal abuse and violence against man and boy . in 2019 , the previous Government publish their first ever position statement on male victim , and they follow this in 2022 with an addendum on support male victim . the change in Government and a revise strategy on violence against woman and girl present a new opportunity to devise a parallel strategy for violence against man and boy in lieu of any direction from the Government regard the publication of a new , update position statement . the Minister for Safeguarding , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , be , as I understand it , currently rewrite the violence against woman and girl strategy for publication later this spring , and to that end , now be the time to legislate for such a change to be formalise . it should be note that when the Government state their hope to halve violence against woman and girl , the start - state of that datum currently include victim who be man and boy . victim of gender - base violence face many barrier that prevent they from report instance of abuse : the fear of not be believe ; the threat that the perpetrator may still pose ; or the simple fact of not be aware of the service available to help or be aware and not be able to access they . there be also the complexity around the consequence of disclosure , such as the impact on living arrangement or financial security and how this can , in turn , lead to instance of coercive control . for man and boy , however , there be additional factor : the shame and stigma of not appear to be masculine , of be vulnerable , of potentially have their sexuality out , and of be the victim of a crime consider , and officially refer to , as apply to female victim . the majority of man seek help have cope alone , often for long period , and be still live with their abusive partner . man in such circumstance might need help with housing and finance , and , in circumstance involve dependent child , with how they can maintain their role as a father . safety planning for this group of man must be initiate at the point of disclosure , as the majority of those seek help do not return to those provide it follow first contact . the crime survey for England and Wales for the year end September 2024 show that 3 % of man age 16 and over be victim of domestic abuse between September 2023 and September 2024 , compare with 6 . 6 % of woman . accord to Women ' s aid ' s 2025 annual audit report , as of May 2024 there be just 50 refuge in England with bed space for man . as such , of a total of 63 , 950 people support in safe accommodation in that period , only 1 , 830 be man . there be also a difference in the need of man who be gay , bisexual or tran . owe to the complexity of the nature of these relationship and the risk of be out , of be the victim of prejudice or of be disown by family member , male victim be less likely to report domestic abuse to statutory service . Carlisle and Withers Green ' s 2023 survey highlight that over 70 % of gay , bisexual and trans male victim of domestic abuse have never seek support from a statutory service provider . their statistic be therefore not record in any official figure and as a result these victim find themselves far isolate , increase their vulnerability to abuse . sexual abuse against man be a vastly under - report crime : one in four adult sexually assault in the UK each year be a man ; one in 10 rape and one in seven sexual assault have male victim accord to the Office for National Statistics ; 3 . 5 % of boy become victim of child sexual abuse before they turn 16 ; one in four victim of child sexual abuse be man ; and over 70 % of child sex abuser be people know to their victim . shame , stigma , homophobia and emasculation be all factor in prevent sexual abuse from be report . it often take year for a male victim to report a sexual assault to the police . male sexual assault survivor be three time more likely to tell a family member , friend or colleague than they be to report an incident to the police . datum from the Office for National Statistics suggest that few than a third of male victim of sexual assault have ever disclose what they have experience . for straight man , there can also be a hesitancy to disclose abuse owe to the misconception that man should be physically strong enough to prevent an assault . male victim of abuse who have be force to penetrate by a partner can struggle to identify their experience as abuse because it cause they to be arouse . rape and sexual abuse should never be minimise because a perpetrator be female . the law currently state that while male and female can be the victim of rape , only male can realistically commit the act of rape . the introduction of a " force to penetrate " sexual offence could therefore address that . Honour - base violence be another factor that be poorly understand and cater for . victim of honour - base violence be at great risk of repeat victimisation and be often at risk from multiple perpetrator . however , no discrete crime of so - call honour - base violence or abuse be define in our legislation , so in most instance male victim would be classify by police as victim of violence without injury or stalking and harassment . datum from the Crown Prosecution Service suggest that around 30 % of prosecution for honour - base violence involve male victim . additionally , the forced marriage unit have consistently see that 20 % of force marriage victim be male . that often include man from overseas who be force to marry UK citizen and can find themselves force into domestic servitude , thus also become victim of modern slavery . this time last year , Professor Nicola Graham - Kevan of the University of Lancashire undertake research and publish datum on how male survivor feel about be categorise as victim of violence against woman and girl : 89 % state that it make it hard to seek help ; 89 % state that they experience distress ; 88 % state that the Government do not care ; 80 % state that it be minimise their experience ; 75 % state that it be not take seriously ; and 73 % state that it be not recognise by society . it be clear that the damaging impact of include male victim within a strategy that cater for violence against woman and girl mean that male survivor can not identify with that labelling . organisation such as we be Survivors , the Men & Boys Coalition and the ManKind Initiative have be instrumental in provide support to male victim and advocate for a solution , and I thank they for their work to highlight this inequality . last November , the Victims ' Commissioner Baroness Helen Newlove write to the Safeguarding Minister outline many of the same concern that I have highlight . the concern be not unique ; they be share by the male survivor community . the view of the Victims ' Commissioner should not go unheeded , nor that of her predecessor Dame Vera Baird KC , who express similar view . the purpose of the Bill be echo in Baroness Newlove ' s word : " I believe it be beyond time for a dedicated man and boy ' strategy , with specific policy , strategic milestone , and accompany funding . a tailored approach for male victim of interpersonal violence be essential to develop their right and ensure the availability of appropriate support service . I urge you to seize this opportunity to create both a robust , cross - governmental VAWG strategy and a separate , comprehensive strategy for man and boy , with clear policy , strategic target , milestone , and sustainable funding arrangement . " six month later , and with nothing far hear on implement such a strategy , this Bill be require to push the Safeguarding Minister to act . my hope be that male survivor of such traumatic violence and abuse can finally be give the focus their plight deserve . I also hope that member on both side of the House feel they can support what the Bill set out to achieve , and I thank they all for listen . question put and agree to . order , that Sir Iain Duncan Smith , Sir Roger Gale , Sir Ashley Fox , Charlie Dewhirst , Wendy Morton , David Simmonds , Paul Holmes , Rebecca Smith , Bob Blackman , Alison Griffiths , Mr Richard Holden and Ben Obese - Jecty present the Bill . Ben Obese - Jecty accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 224 ) . opposition Day - 6th Allotted DayOpposition Day hospital I inform the House that I have select the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister . I beg to move , that this House regret the appalling state of repair of NHS hospital across the country ; note that the NHS maintenance backlog rise to £ 13 . 8 billion in 2023 - 24 ; far note the sustained pattern of cannibalise NHS capital budget to keep day - to - day service run ; condemn the previous Government ' s record of starve repair budget and explode maintenance backlog , which make sewage leak , crack wall , crumble ceiling and sink floor commonplace ; far condemn the previous Government for launch the New Hospital Programme with no realistic plan to fund or deliver it ; far regret that almost half of the select hospital be now not set to begin construction until after 2030 ; call on the Government to reverse the delay to the New Hospital Programme and create a crumble hospital taskforce to bring construction date forward ; and far call on the Government to end the vicious cycle of false economy and rise repair backlog by put hospital across the country on a path towards sustainable funding . the appalling state of our hospital building be a national scandal . everybody in this country should be in control of their own life and health , which mean everybody get the care they need when and where they need it , but that can never be realise while so many patient be treat in grossly inadequate setting . from Shropshire to Cornwall , Cambridgeshire , Watford and Devon , patient be lose their dignity because of decision take by the Conservatives , and the Labour Government ' s failure to rectify they . the Conservatives ' record be one of starve repair budget , serious leak , crumble ceiling and bucket - strew ward . it be an outrage that million of people be wait for treatment , yet overcrowded hospital have have to close operating theatre because they be no long fit for use . patient and hospital staff deserve the dignity of safe , modern and clean environment , but instead the previous Government shamefully choose to raid the repair budget to plug the gap in day - to - day cost , as our hospital fall apart , and the new Government , who be elect on what increasingly look like false hope , be pursue a false economy in delay the desperately need new hospital programme . as with so much of their agenda , the Government promise so much but be deliver so little and betray those who put their faith in the Labour party . farmer who be feed up with the Tories take they for grant have be hit with a tax grab on their family ' future . employer , who be promise growth and no new taxis , have be whack with a national insurance increase . patient , who be promise new hospital , have have they take away . I be with the hon . Lady almost up until that point . I congratulate she on open the debate . it be absolutely true that the new hospital programme do not deliver new hospital and be unfunded under the Tories . however , it be be fund now under Labour . money be be invest in my local hospital , in the Imperial College Healthcare NHS trust , and it be prepare for major rebuild . will she perhaps give the new Government a little credit for what they have do , and correctly identify the shamble that we be leave with ? the hon . member will be aware that there be not 40 new hospital — they be not all hospital and there be not 40 of they . the issue here be that the start date for work on many hospital that need urgent rebuilding have be push back into the 2030 , long beyond the life of this Parliament . the people who be serve by those hospital be promise new facility and have not have they . that be devastating for those community . if the conservative approach be contemptible , Labour ' s approach have be to procrastinate . the cost to the NHS of paper over the crack and keep hospital run past their natural lifespan be enormous . that be why the Government must reverse the delay to the new hospital programme at once and urgently deliver the new hospital that patient have long be promise . I wonder if the hon . member can explain to I how spend £ 22 billion extra on the national health service this year can in any way be describe as procrastination . it be important to recognise that the additional investment in the NHS amount to about £ 10 billion a year — accord to Office for Budget Responsibility number , which I be sure the hon . Gentleman have look at — because of the cost of national insurance hike and of compensate other public sector employer for those hike . the £ 22 billion figure be somewhat misleading . the point that we be make be that it be a false economy to keep those building go , to keep repair a crumble estate , to keep patch up and put a sticking plaster on those problem . those building need to be demolish and rebuild , so that approach be a false economy . it would be much well to build new building up front and save on future repair cost . we need to ensure that no one be treat in broken , uncomfortable and unsafe facility . repair and replace crumble , substandard hospital be not only vital for deliver well care and treat - more patient , but crucial for rebuild the economy after year of conservative economic vandalism . how much would all this cost ? in my county of Shropshire , the cost of the maintenance backlog across all site have reach about £ 75 million . I be sure that everyone here would agree that £ 75 million be a lot of money — indeed , it be so much that it be the total amount of Government capital investment for hospice this year — but in term of hospital maintenance it be a drop in the ocean . Torbay hospital need more than £ 50 million to clear the backlog , Watford hospital have a backlog of £ 63 million , and hull royal infirmary require an eye - water £ 70 million . across England , the figure be a colossal £ 13 . 8 billion — and that be just to bring our exist hospital estate to the minimum standard . the hon . member be right that a huge amount of money need to be spend . a lot of that go back to the fact that , as Lord Darzi tell we , £ 37 billion less be spend on hospital building in the 2010 than be necessary . will she remind I who be in government for the for half of the 2010 ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that , when one come into government and have to clean up the mess leave behind by the previous Government , one have to make difficult choice . it be the job of the Opposition to point out where they would make those choice or take different option . we would invest to save money in the long run , rather than fritter money away on a repair bill for building that need to be demolish . it be not sensible to pour good money after bad when the right thing to do be invest in a new fit - for - purpose and modern estate that do not have endless and extortionate maintenance requirement . rise — I will make some progress . at North Devon district hospital , the ducting of the ventilation system that serve the operate theatre have not be change since it be instal in 1979 , and can not be replace because of ceiling height and asbestos . as a result , all operate theatre have be non - compliant with NHS England building guidance since 2007 . the good people of Devon clearly need a new hospital , and they be promise that they would have one by 2030 , only for the Labour Government to take it away and decide that the change those people need will not be deliver for another decade . even hospital with comparatively few maintenance problem , such as the Royal Shrewsbury hospital , which serve my constituent and have a £ 35 million backlog , be clearly a long way short of be up to standard . I will not go into detail again about the catalogue of issue in Shropshire — the ambulance delay and station closure , the wait time for check - up , scan and surgery , or the substandard state of cancer care — but they all combine to put huge pressure on hospital , where staff and building be strain under the load . I commend the hon . Lady and the Liberal Democrats for secure this debate . one issue that they have not mention in their motion be car parking at hospital , which be an ongoing problem for disabled people and patient who miss or delay their appointment as a result of a lack of space . do she agree that car parking be central to address the issue that she be set out ? car parking be a real problem , particularly where public transport be poor — it plague my constituent — and when it be unrealistically expensive for people who need to use hospital facility . I thank the hon . member for that point . the NHS crisis impact on patient outcome . my constituent Emma be leave in the " fit to sit " area for 48 hour despite have be diagnose with suspect sepsis , 96 - year - old Mary wait outside in an ambulance for 11 hour , and 82 - year - old Paula spend 24 hour on a trolley in a corridor . that be the reality in hospital up and down the country . I think we all agree that that be a disgrace and it must be rectify . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . one of the main reason those problem have not be rectify be successive delay from successive government . Shropshire be , again , a prime example . this be not relate to the new hospital programme , but none the less , £ 312 million be grant for the hospital transformation programme in Shropshire back in 2018 . seven year later , while the country have be through five Prime Ministers and eight different Health Secretaries , Shropshire be still wait for that transformation to take place . opposition from both the Labour and conservative council that serve the area , along with the ridiculously lengthy process that capital expenditure have to go through to be sign off , mean that desperately need improvement have be horribly delay as construction cost rise . as a result , the original plan have be scale back and their value diminish . my hon . friend mention the inordinate delay that occur with regard to application for capital fund . I have watch with horror as my local hospital trust in West Hertfordshire have have to submit business case after business case while watch the cost rack up . do she agree that one way to spend the allocate money more efficiently would be by devolve those budget to local hospital trust , rather than have a centralised programme that drive up the cost ? I could not agree more . that be exactly the situation we see in Shropshire . once again , the people who will suffer be the patient . last year , less than £ 900 million of the £ 13 . 8 billion require to eradicate the repair backlog for hospital be invest — just 6 . 5 % . it do not take an accountant to work out that at that rate , it will take 15 year to clear the current backlog , let alone the further deterioration of the crumble building . investment in eradicate the repair backlog fall sharply from £ 1 . 4 billion in 2021 to £ 895 million in 2023 - 24 — a fall of 37 % . I be afraid that , just like their approach to fix social care , the Government ' s continue lack of imagination and ambition be leave our NHS less productive and less stable , which risk leave million languish on NHS waiting list . rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) because he have try to intervene before . I be most grateful to the hon . Lady for her delay response . I be strike by her lack of response to two of my colleague . she do not acknowledge to my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) that in my constituency of Chelsea and Fulham , the Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust be get money from the Government as a precursor to rebuild the hospital promise to it . more importantly , she do not address the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) that we be all reap the whirlwind of the decision take by the Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition Government . the Liberal Democrats make a choice to go into that Government , to take on role include as Chief Secretary to the Treasury and as Health Ministers , and to make those cut and destroy the NHS . we be now reap the whirlwind of the decision that she and her colleague make . be it not a little bit cheeky of she to make some of the point and claim she be make today ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman ' s hospital be be deal with , but I be sure that the resident of Torbay will not feel the benefit of that . I be slightly surprised that he think that the decade since the Liberal Democrats be in power have have no impact whatsoever . I do address the point that when a party come into government and have to clear up the appalling mess leave by the previous Government , there be difficult choice to be make . his party know that . Labour Members , for example , have vote to retain the two - child benefit cap and keep a quarter of a million child in poverty — something that no one in my party have ever vote for . the last time I open a Liberal Democrat Opposition day debate be in October , and the topic be primary care . I explain how the Government ' s failure to invest in primary care be a false economy that increase pressure and cost in the critical part of the system . the management of our hospital building display that same false economy . just as spend money on critical care instead of prevention and public health be a poor approach to manage a health service , wait for the roof to collapse be an irresponsible way to manage NHS building . as problem be ignore and investment be poorly target , it be the patient and the hard - work staff strive to help they who be force to suffer . this be not just about the new hospital programme . across the country , there be thousand of GP surgery that need urgent improvement if they be to provide the care that patient deserve . More than 2 , 000 hospital building across England be build before the foundation of the NHS in 1948 , while the state of GP surgery vary wildly . many surgery be simply no long fit for purpose , have be build in the 1950 . prescott surgery in my constituency , for example , have long be recognise as somewhere that need to drastically increase in size because the population of the village have increase drastically itself . despite the land and the community infrastructure levy funding be available , there be no sign of a new surgery be build . as the delay continue , the cost be rise and the challenge grow for both the council and the integrated care board , which be already under immense pressure to cut their cost . instead of pursue fantasy like the Conservatives or false economy like the Labour party , the liberal Democrats would invest to save by start construction now , and end the epidemic of cancel operation , close - off ward and huge sum waste on emergency repair . that would save the taxpayer money in the long run and benefit patient much soon . the hon . Lady be be a little bit unrealistic . I have three world - class hospital in my constituency : Charing Cross , Hammersmith and St Mary ' s Paddington . the repair bill be £ 874 million , but the rebuild or new build cost would be £ 4 billion . yes , we be refurbish part of Charing Cross and put a lot of investment into prepare for that work , but the idea that suddenly the hon . Lady be go to come up with ten , if not hundred , of billion of pound be unrealistic , be it not ? the plan that we have put forward involve £ 10 billion over 10 year , and I will come to that in a moment . the real issue be that we can not pick one hospital and say that it be indicative of an NHS that be be deal with appropriately . hospital across the country be fall apart . for example , Stepping Hill , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) , be not in the new hospital programme , yet it be fall apart at the seam . we need to address the whole estate fairly urgently . our 10 - year guarantee capital investment programme would provide long - term security and fix our crumble hospital and creak GP surgery . it would provide an extra £ 10 billion for our crumble building over the next decade , improve outcome for patient , boost productivity and cut day - to - day cost for the NHS . provide certainty be crucial . as it stand , manager have to raid precious budget not just to plug leaking pipe , but to plug staffing gap when winter pressure arrive . that be why we would also end the reactive approach to the annual winter crisis through our winter taskforce . instead of the average £ 376 million of emergency funding announce late into the winter each year for the last seven year , our winter taskforce would manage a ringfenced fund of £ 1 . 5 billion over the next four year . that would help hospital to plan their budget and build resilience in ward , a & E department , ambulance service and patient discharging . the hon . Lady be talk about the day - to - day budget of the NHS , in particular the cost of pay off previous debt . she talk about the work that need to be do during the coalition year and in the decade and a half since then , in response to intervention from Labour Members . do she agree that one of the big mess that need to be clear up then , which be still be feel in NHS budget , be the disastrous private finance initiative of the Blair and Brown year ? there have be successive failure in NHS management that all party need to hold their hand up for — that be a fair point . we should , though , focus on the task in hand rather than continually go back decade , either to the coalition Government or to the Blair Government before that . that be not helpful to our constituent , who want a solution now . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? no . I have be very generous with my time and I be go to make some progress . we be also campaign for a review of outdated Government finance rule that prevent NHS trust from invest the fund that they have raise into their own building . even NHS manager struggle to access common - sense investment in their facility due to overly complex rule and glacial process . trust be prevent from use unspent fund on improve their building . we need root - and - branch reform , combine with our 10 - year programme of investment , to bring our local health facility up to scratch . in conclusion , the recent history of the NHS be one of short - term decision making and of the failure of successive government to grasp the nettle of long - term sustained investment in the thing that matter : hospital building , GP service , dentistry , pharmacy and , crucially , the unspoken crisis of social care . the outcome be an organisation that be spend million of pound to go backwards . it truly be a false economy . this Government have speak warmly of the need to reform the NHS and improve productivity , and we support they in that , but we can not expect to retain staff and provide high - quality care when so many doctor and nurse be negotiate leak roof and sewage back up on the ward . deal with the new hospital programme be a matter of urgency , and I urge the Secretary of State to , at long last , grasp the nettle . I call Stephen Kinnock — be it ? — to move the amendment ; I have a different name in front of I . I be glad you recognise I from the Chair , Mr Speaker . I have lose some hair since we last speak . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " it " to end and insert : " also note that the Chancellor have announce new fiscal rule to ensure capital budget can no long be cannibalise , with transfer from capital to resource budget not permit ; recognise that the previous Government leave a New Hospital Programme which be unfunded , unrealistic and undeliverable ; welcome that the Government have take action to review that Programme and have publish the New Hospital Programme Plan for Implementation , to put the Programme on a sustainable footing ; support the Government ' s investment in the Plan , which will increase to up to £ 15 billion over each consecutive five - year wave , average around £ 3 billion a year from 2030 ; and far support the work be do to bring forward construction of the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete replacement scheme wherever possible , to ensure that patient and staff safety be prioritise . " the amendment on the Order Paper be in the name of my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister . I thank the Liberal Democrats for use their Opposition day to address a matter of vital importance for so many member , include many colleague right across the Chamber and their constituent . I sincerely hope that the Liberal Democrats will work with we on solution , not on soundbite , because we need to be realistic about the problem we face and serious about how we tackle they . the new hospital programme be announce by the last government to much fanfare in October 2020 , with a promise to deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 . we be tell that there be a plan and a timetable , and we be glibly assure that it be fully fund , but from the outset it be clear that there be not 40 new scheme — some be just refurbishment or extension . to put it simply , there be not 40 project , they be not all new and many of they be not even hospital . the spin around the programme be widely question and challenge before the general election , but nevertheless we be truly shock by what we find on enter the Department of Health and Social Care . the programme be hugely delay , by several year more than have already be reveal by the National Audit Office . there be no credible plan to deliver the building project , let alone to deliver they all in the next five year , and there be not even enough construction capacity in the UK to build all the hospital in the new hospital programme by 2030 . that be why when the hospital with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete be bring into the nhp in 2023 , even the last Government have the sense to admit that nine scheme would have to be deliver past 2030 in order to prioritise the RAAC hospital . perhaps most shocking of all , the funding for the programme be due to run out a month ago , with no provision whatsoever for future year : the money simply be not there . the programme be build on nothing more than false hope , dodgy claim and disingenuous press release . do the Minister share my constituent ' anger at the failure of the Tories to back up any of their promise about new hospital ? will he reassure I that my constituent who be serve by Airedale general hospital will finally get a new hospital to deal with the RAAC in an affordable , deliverable timetable , unlike the false promise of the Conservatives ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for her constituent , and she be absolutely right . the point she make raise the even big issue of trust in politic and the trust that her constituent have in this place . that trust be fundamentally undermine by the disingenuous nature of what go on with the previous hospital programme . the british people be grow up enough for we to be able to level with they , be straight with they and say , " this plan be credible and affordable . it ' s base on fact , not fantasy . " on the point of trust , the Conservatives completely blow trust with the constituent of West Hertfordshire . they promise a new hospital — they even say in 2023 that it would be fully fund , and it clearly be not . at the most recent general election , the Labour party promise that Watford general hospital would be a priority . will the Minister make a new promise to keep that trust by come to visit that hospital this year ? I be sure the hon . Lady will appreciate the fact that we have now come forward with a programme build not on sand or smoke and mirror , but on reality , and the hospital she mention will be a part of that . she be very welcome to write to I with any further representation . the situation I have describe be the dog ' s breakfast that we inherit from the Conservatives . this be genuinely not a partisan point , because when the previous Government do the right thing — for example , on the Tobacco and Vapes Bill — we be more than happy to support they , but where they fail , fib , and fob off member of this House , we will not pretend that they be act in good faith . it now fall to we to level with the british people about why their hospital will not be fix on time . our constituent be understandably furious , because our national health service be quite literally crumble . as Lord Darzi find in his investigation , over the past 14 year our NHS have be starve of capital , with a staggering £ 37 billion under - investment over the course of the 2010 . I know that we will hear today from hon . member about many example of hospital roof fail or fall , leaky pipe that freeze over in the winter and bucket for catch rainwater in corridor , and I know that capital spending be need now more than ever . although we be deeply shock by the neglect and incompetence of the Conservatives , it have not prevent we from roll up our sleeve and clear up the mess that they leave behind . that be why we immediately commission a review , which have two core objective . the first be to put the programme on a firm foot with sustainable funding , so that all the project can be deliver to a realistic and affordable timetable . the second be to give patient a realistic , deliverable timetable base on fact rather than fantasy . my hon . friend talk about realistic timeline , which be really important . my constituent in Harlow be promise a new hospital when there be clearly no money , no business plan and not even a site make available for it . do he agree that this work be so important for the trust that we want to have from our constituent ? certainly in Harlow , we have a realistic timeframe and plan that we can actually meet . my hon . friend be also a doughty champion for his constituent . with each brick we build in the new hospital programme , I hope that we will start to rebuild some trust between his constituent and this place . he be absolutely right to point out that it be much well to have a realistic programme , rather than one build on smoke and mirror . official report on the review in the autumn and set out a range of option for a more realistic timetable for delivery . in January , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care announce five - year wave of investment , back by up to £ 15 billion of investment over consecutive five - year wave , average £ 3 billion a year from 2030 . our programme be a balanced portfolio of hospital scheme at different development stage , be deliver now and into the future . it be the most efficient and cost - effective way of give our NHS the building it need , while also give the construction sector the certainty that it need to deliver . the Minister refer to the capital need of the NHS as a whole . as my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) mention , that apply to many GP surgery too . in my constituency , we have rapid growth in population . the population of Woodstock , Heyford Park and Bicester be struggle , because GPs want to expand , but they can not access the money to do so . will the Minister look urgently at release more fund through integrate care board so that future revenue can be provide to allow for the capital investment that would give my constituent an expansion in GP surgery and take some pressure off our much - pressurised hospital ? I be very pleased to see the £ 102 million capital investment in GP primary care . I encourage the hon . Gentleman ' s ICB to look very carefully at that fund and to explore the potential that it offer . we be in conversation with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government about ensure that section 106 process be work properly , so that when there be new development , there be proper wraparound in the social infrastructure require to make they sustainable . in the space of just nine short month , we have go from a charade base on smoke and mirror to a programme base on serious , systematic delivery . the Minister be set out very articulately what this Government be do to clear up the mess around the hospital provision that this country need . do he agree that the announcement by Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust last week that it will build a new and expand intensive care unit at Dare nt Valley hospital be a big step forward for Dartford resident ? it badly need new facility to cope with waiting list and get they down and to cope with the rise population of the area . my hon . friend be a strong campaigner for his constituent . he be right that that development will be a game changer . it will be important that we keep people ' s foot to the fire to deliver on what have be promise . I guarantee that he will have my full support and that of the entire ministerial team . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will now address the Liberal Democrat motion , begin with its point about the cannibalising of NHS capital budget to keep day - to - day service run . I be delighted to confirm from this Dispatch Box that this Government have draw a line under that appalling practice , to which the conservative party be utterly addicted . the Treasury now have new fiscal rule to prevent that from happen again ; capital spending be safe in our hand . secondly , on reverse the so - call programme that we inherit on 4 July , I hope I have make it clear that that whole sorry mess be a work of fiction . it be not a question of reverse anything , as the Liberal Democrats say in their motion , because there be nothing to reverse . instead , we have go back to the drawing board , and systematically design and build a completely new programme and a completely new approach . as somebody who have to put up with what I think be seven photo opportunity by previous Conservative Ministers — include one who be sit on the Opposition Front Benches now — proclaim that they be rebuild Whipps Cross hospital with money that do not exist , it be clear that what need reverse be the Conservatives ' chutzpah in say that somehow they be the one champion change on reform PFI . some of we spend year try to persuade Ministers that we could reform the disgraceful spending on PFI — particularly private finance 2 — scheme bring in by the previous Conservative Administration . under those scheme , some trust be spend £ 2 billion a year on repayment — more than they be spend on drug . that be one way in which we could get some money for the new hospital , so do my hon . friend agree that it be this Government , rather than the Opposition , who understand good public finance ? my hon . friend , who be a relentless campaigner for her constituent , be right : it be simply government by press release , with so many aspect of policy base on make announcement and unfunded spending commitment . when we come into government , we discover a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , largely base on promise that have no funding whatsoever attach to they . that be the sort of behaviour that undermine trust in politic . on the liberal Democrat proposal to create a taskforce , we have excellent team work on the programme , and they be get on with the job . we do not have a second to waste . set up a new taskforce would simply mean further delay and distraction through process , rather than a laser focus on delivery . I know that member across the House share my outrage at the almost £ 14 billion backlog maintenance bill face NHS trust after year of historic under - investment . I understand that many in the Chamber be concerned about the condition of the health facility that serve their constituent , and I reassure they that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have give we the funding to begin immediately reverse the trend of decline that start under the last government . this financial year , we be back NHS system through over £ 4 billion in operational capital ; a lifesave cash injection of £ 750 million of target estate safety funding , as a vital first step towards fix our crumble estate ; and £ 440 million to tackle crumble RAAC , keep staff , patient and their family safe . we be empower system to manage their capital allocation locally and assign funding to local priority , ensure that money be spend as effectively as possible , as soon as possible . my local hospital be evict from the new hospital programme when the RAAC scheme come along . there be nothing to delay — there be no money there at all . do the Minister recognise that some very innovative scheme be now go on locally ? we in the Imperial College healthcare trust be partner with Paddington Life Sciences , Imperial College in South Kensington and White City , and the Hammersmith and Fulham industrial strategy to maximise the available resource so that we can rebuild three world - class hospital . my hon . friend be make some very strong point on behalf of his constituent . we would certainly be very happy to work more with he on some of those innovation . so often , hospital be anchor institution — alongside university — for drive forward innovation , harness the power of technology and contribute to the Government ' s growth mission . there be huge opportunity there , and I would be happy to explore they far with my hon . friend . despite overwhelming support , the Coventry and Warwickshire integrate care board have decide to cut all bed at the Ellen Badger hospital in Shipston - on - Stour , an anchor building and community hospital that be at the heart of our town . do the Minister agree that cut such vital service be unacceptable , and that community hospital play an important role in rural area by provide equality of access to our health service ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that community hospital play a vital role , and I share her disappointment with the decision that be be make . the fact of the matter be that we be in a hole , and we have to dig ourselves out of that hole . it be go to take some time to do that . we be get the public finance back on an even keel , we be get our public service back to where they need to be , and we be get the economy back on a sounder footing . as we make those achievement , I hope that we will be able to reverse some of the decision that be be make — decision that be , of course , damage to the hon . Lady ' s community — but we be in a very difficult position , and it will take some time for we to get over that . rise — if hon . member will bear with I , I will make a little bit more progress and then come back to they . many liberal Democrat colleague have make the argument that with hospital in the state they be in , it be more important than ever to have a robust social care system in place . as the Minister for Care , I agree with they wholeheartedly , but it be simply not true to portray the Government as sit on their hand while Baroness Casey get crack on her vital work . in fact , we have hit the ground run through a plethora of measure . we have legislate for the first ever fair pay agreement for social care in order to tackle the 130 , 000 vacancy we see today . we have deliver an extra 7 , 800 home adaptation through the disabled facility grant to change the life of thousand more disabled people for the well . in the Budget , the Chancellor provide the big increase in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , worth £ 2 , 000 a year to family carer and with an extra £ 3 . 7 billion for local authority . we be not hang around on more structural reform , either . we be introduce new standard to help people who use care , their family and provider to choose the most effective new technology as it come on the market . we be join up care and medical record , so that NHS and care staff have the full picture they need to provide the good possible care , and we be train more care worker to perform more health intervention , help people to stay well and at home . just two week ago , we announce a new qualification for social care staff , train they in artificial intelligence to automate routine task and motion sensor to detect fall . we be seize the opportunity of care tech and harness it for the benefit of thousand who draw on care across our country . we be desperate to help the Minister in this endeavour , and look forward to receive our invitation to the cross - party talk , which have yet to be issue . however , the Health and Social Care Committee hear today from an organisation call Think Ahead , which be the only organisation in the country that train mental health social care worker . I have just hear that the Department of Health and Social Care be not refund that organisation . can the Minister explain why ? I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . Baroness Casey be work at pace to get the commission up and run , and that will be launch this month . on her point about think ahead , the fundamental challenge we have with that programme be its relatively high unit cost . we be aim to ensure that we deliver value for money for the taxpayer — I be sure that the hon . Lady share that objective . we have to ensure that we deliver a programme for mental health social care work that deliver not only the good possible outcome for our community , but the good possible value for taxpayer money . a lot have be do in the nine month since the election , but there be a huge amount more to do , and this Government be get on with the job . alongside the work I have describe , the Government be put record level of investment into healthcare , with capital spending rise to £ 13 . 6 billion over this year and the next . that include £ 1 . 5 billion for new surgical hub , diagnostic scanner and bed across the NHS estate , as well as new radiotherapy machine to improve cancer treatment ; over £ 1 billion to tackle RAAC and make inroad into the backlog of critical maintenance , repair and upgrade across the NHS estate ; and over £ 2 billion to be invest in NHS technology and digital . we be also take the pressure off our hospital through care in the community , and I be sure the whole House will welcome the fact that we have recruit 1 , 500 extra gps on to the frontline . come back to community hospital , I come to this House to try to save Teignmouth community hospital , which have be under threat of closure because Torbay , its parent hospital , have such a massive maintenance backlog that it can not afford to maintain both itself and Teignmouth hospital , so it be shut down community hospital . in Devon , we have just three principal hospital : North Devon , which we understand be under pressure , Torbay , which be under pressure , and exeter . we need the community hospital . will the Minister stop Teignmouth hospital from be shut , so that we can maintain it until it can be rebuild ? these decision be the responsibility of icb , and the ICB be have to balance a range of pressure , as the hon . member point out , create largely by the neglect and incompetence of the previous Government . it be now a question of icb have to cut their cloth to make the finance work with the limited resource they have . I be afraid that be symptomatic of the mess we find when we take over on 4 July . the Royal Sussex in my constituency be in desperate need of a new cancer centre , and I be delighted that the centre be be add to wave one . I would be even happy if the Minister also add a new accident and emergency department , but we will come back to that another day . be the reality not that we all want to build these new hospital , but we all have to be honest with the public about how we will pay for they ? the Liberal Democrats never be , and the motion be not . bring forward construction date be a multibillion - pound commitment , but all the motion talk about be create a taskforce . be that not fundamentally unserious ? this be an incredibly serious issue , and we should put forward proper proposal . my hon . friend be an outstanding champion for his constituent . I note the point he make about A & E ; that be nicely do . he be right in what he say about the motion . the broad point to make be that thank to the necessary decision that my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer make in the autumn Budget , we have generate the revenue that we will need to rebuild public service , and in particular our NHS , which be bring to its knee by the previous Government . I can not claim to be a careful student of the liberal Democrat manifesto for the last election , but I do notice that the revenue that would be generate by their measure be , I think , about £ 8 . 4 billion . last time I check , that be significantly low than the £ 23 billion raise by the Chancellor ' s Budget . the Liberal Democrats should probably get their calculator out and figure out exactly how they will generate this revenue , rather than criticise we constantly for the decision we have take . rise — I will just make a little more progress , if I may . we be commit to rebuild our NHS and rebuild trust in Government . we will never play fast and loose with the public finance , and we will never try to pull the wool over the public ' s eye . everyone in this House remember , or should remember , that the last Labour Government cut waiting list to their low level in history , raise patient satisfaction to the high level in its history , and bring in historic health intervention , such as the smoking ban . what be less remembered be that they also deliver the large hospital building programme in NHS history . all that mean that when the coalition take over in 2010 , it be present with a strong national health service that be fire on all cylinder . tragically , that coalition Government and their successor government set about weaken and undermine every aspect of our precious nhs , to the extent that by the time this Government take over in July , the NHS be well and truly on its knee . today , it once again fall to a Labour Government to take the necessary and right decision for the future . we have now put the new hospital programme on a sustainable footing . it have a timeline that can be meet , and a budget consistent with our fiscal rule . that be how we have turn the programme from empty rhetoric into reality , and in do so , we have provide the construction industry and its supply chain with vital certainty , while also restore confidence in public sector procurement . we be on the side of the builder , not the blocker . our plan be credible , achievable and fully fund . it be a programme ground in fact , not fiction . I be bear in Tredegar , the very same town as Aneurin Bevan , so it be the privilege of a lifetime to be part of a Government who be carry his torch into the 21st century , build a generation of hospital that would do Nye proud . I call the shadow Minister . we can all agree that we want a world - class NHS , and that include have the very good hospital , technology and staff . I have be delighted to see the brilliant facility create in my area , include a new A & E in Boston , new mental health ward at Lincoln county hospital , and new operating theatre at Grantham and District hospital . these upgrade mean that patient can receive the good possible care in appropriate setting , and staff can go to work each day proud of their workplace environment . however , we must be alive to the challenge that face the NHS . we live in an age society where people have more complex comorbiditie . we also have a grow population , so there be more demand for service . in fact , the NHS treat 25 % more patient every single day than it do back in 2010 . new treatment , technology and procedure have be develop , save and improve life , but they come at an ever more expensive price . we also have the covid pandemic , which I notice the Minister do not mention . accord to the King ' s Fund , in 2023 price , spend on capital in Labour ' s last year in office , 2009 - 10 , be £ 6 . 9 billion . in 2023 - 24 , that have nearly double to £ 11 . 4 billion . even before the pandemic , capital spending be nearly £ 1 billion high than when Labour leave government . that help we to open 160 community diagnostic centre and more than 100 surgical hub , and to invest more in scanner , bed and operate theatre to deliver a million more check , scan and procedure close to home . we be commit to deliver the new hospital programme in full . there be more to do . the challenge be evolve , the demand for care be grow and the pressure on the NHS be ever increase . it now fall to the Labour Government to address those problem . I want they to succeed — that be in all our constituent ' interest — but what we have see so far do not fill I with hope . one of the Health Secretary ' s first choice on enter government be to pause the new hospital programme and put its future at risk . that be despite the fact that he and the Chancellor travel the country throughout the election period , meet candidate and promise a new hospital in their area . just like the Government ' s promise to the farmer , the pensioner and business , those be hollow word . the Conservatives commit to restore and renew our hospital . my constituent in Epping Forest depend on the Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow , and on Whipps Cross hospital in Leytonstone . despite Labour make clear promise about those two vital hospital prior to the election , the Labour Government have delay their rebuilding . it be particularly gall because Whipps Cross have planning permission , and work on the car park have already start . do my hon . friend agree that the Labour Government should re - evaluate their priority and crack on with deliver the rebuild promise at the Princess Alexandra and Whipps Cross ? I absolutely agree that the Labour Government should do that , but unfortunately , we have learn that their promise do not mean much at all . on promise not mean much , the hon . Lady will be aware that the previous Conservative Government promise West Hertfordshire a new hospital . in 2023 , they say it be fully fund , yet there be still not a spade in the ground . can she explain where that money disappear to , please ? the previous Secretary of State make it clear that the hospital be fully fund and would be build . what have change since then be that we have a new Government who make the choice not to build it . these be choice that the new Government must own . when the Government come to power , the Secretary of State commission the Darzi review , which highlight the need for more capital investment in the NHS , but decide not to prioritise the delivery of the new hospital . to govern be to choose , and the Secretary of State have choose not to deliver the hospital . we set out our commitment to deliver they on time , with the agreement of the then Chancellor . of course , spend decision can not be make for a future Parliament , but the Secretary of State have choose not to make the same commitment . it may be helpful I correct a couple of " fact " that the hon . Lady have give . in his election literature , my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Chelsea and Fulham make the clear statement that he have secure the fund for the rebuilding and refurbishment of Charing Cross hospital . when I speak to the chief executive of the hospital , he say that he have receive no such reassurance from the Government , and on come to power we find that no money have be set aside for the guarantee refurbishment . moreover , this do not just apply to Charing Cross hospital . across the country , the last Government ' s claim to have find the funding be discover not to be true when we come to power . the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , who be talk to the hon . Lady at the moment , live in my constituency , so he be well aware of the accuracy of what I be say . [ laughter . ] I know ; I will get complaint about the bin again now . would the hon . Lady like to reflect on the accuracy of what she be say , in the light of the fact as I have set they out ? I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman be not correct . the previous Government , and the previous Chancellor , make a clear commitment to provide the money , and to the hospital building project , but the current Government have not choose to meet that commitment . these be choice that be be make . for now , patient and staff be be deny the quality facility that they have deserve for decade . for some hospital , construction work will not even begin until 2039 . will the Minister write to I , give the date on which each hospital will be complete ? we can see the Labour Government ' s lack of ambition . there be 40 hospital in wave 1 to 3 of their programme — 40 hospital over 15 year — but there be 515 acute , specialist and community hospital in England . at this pace , the replacement of the NHS estate will require a cycle of nearly 200 year . that be the equivalent of a hospital build in 1825 not be replace until this year . that be Labour ' s ambitious programme . we can all see the pressure face the Chancellor as her economic mismanagement hit the country . we can not tax our way to growth . perhaps that be yet another reason why growth forecast have be cut yet again . how do we know that Labour will not come for those already delay new hospital in a year or two , and that there will not be further delay or cancellation ? the Government have make it clear that the new hospital be not their priority . will the Minister give we that guarantee ? may I return the hon . Lady to the subject of Charing Cross hospital for a moment ? it use to be the main hospital in my constituency , before it become part of the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) . the Conservative Government propose to demolish it , and it take a seven - year campaign by resident to secure a reprieve . it go into the new hospital programme , and then come out again in 2023 , under the Conservatives , because hospital with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete be go in . that be the history . have the hon . Lady be live in a different world for the last decade ? in that time , there have be not just underfunding , but threat to demolish and close hospital , and then to remove they from a programme that the Conservatives invent . only now be this hospital in a viable programme , and be give the help and support that it need to become the world - class hospital that it have be . I must confess to not be terribly au fait with the position of Charing Cross hospital in 2012 , which be before I be elect . it be not a hospital in which I have work as a doctor , but I be advise that it be my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , when he be Health Secretary , who keep it open , and I be sure that local resident will be disappoint that this Labour Government have choose not to rebuild it until 2035 . will labour — in an attempt to fill the black hole of their creation — return to private finance initiative contract , to bridge the gap between the spending that they want and the fiscal situation that they have create ? I see at first hand the disastrous agreement that be reach , which lead to extortionate cost and ridiculous inflexibility . let I give just one example . I remember be very pleased to have an office of my own for the first time when , as a doctor , I be promote . I be give a desk , a computer and a large whiteboard . when I ask , " how do I get this put up on the wall ? " , I be tell , " you can ' t have it put up on the wall , because it would cost £ 800 . " that be more than a decade ago . I think , " why be it cost £ 800 ? " and I say , " I can go and buy some ' no nail ' from the local hardware store and put it up myself ! " I be then tell , " you can ' t do that , because a deal be negotiate , and it would be against the contract . " in total , there be about 700 PFI contract with a capital value of £ 57 billion , and there be about £ 160 billion still to be pay for they and their maintenance . during covid , in 2020 - 21 , analysis from the Guardian find that nearly half a billion pound be be spend purely on interest charge . that be money that be not be spend on patient care , and it be a long - last legacy from the last time a Labour Government be in power and try to get around their fiscal rule . these be fundamentally bad deal . yet again , we see that when labour negotiate , the taxpayer lose . despite 14 year in opposition , Labour come to office without a plan for what it actually want to do for the NHS . instead , we have see review after review and consultation after consultation , with very little action or delivery in return for what this mean for patient and the taxpayer . the Labour Government hike taxis on general practice , community pharmacy and even child ' s hospice , only to give they some of that money back and expect they to be grateful for it . they cut the winter fuel payment for million of the most vulnerable people in the country , and then sit back and watch as the number of pensioner attend a & E this winter soar . they cave in to the trade union demand with an inflation - bust pay rise in return for no modernisation or productivity reform , and the threat to strike again be already back . they scrap our productivity plan , which we have already fully fund and which would have unlocked billion in saving by the end of the decade . I have a question to which I know the answer . the question be " how many new hospital be build in the last five year ? " and the answer , of course , be " Zero " . be it not the case that the 40 new hospital promise by the last Government be not new and be not hospital , and there certainly be not 40 of they ? actually , we use the definition of " new hospital " that Tony Blair use when he be Prime Minister . let we turn to where we be now . we welcome the capital funding to continue the programme that we start in government for new surgical hub and diagnostic , but how much of the additional capital funding allocate in the last Budget will be use to carry out repair in hospital that should be rebuild ? let I repeat the question ask by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) . will those delay cost more money , both because work that would otherwise be unnecessary will have to be do to keep hospital open and because of inflation , which be rise under this government ? how much extra will the national insurance job tax cost the contractor build the new hospital and undertaking maintenance and repair ? those additional cost will be pass on to the NHS . will that mean less repair work be undertake , or will the Government make cut elsewhere — and if they do , where will those cut fall ? the Chancellor have already hike taxis on work people and business , and today we see that borrowing have also increase by £ 30 billion a year , with debt pile up and inflation on the rise . how do the Minister intend future repair and build to be fund — through yet more tax rise , more borrowing , bring back PFI , or cut other area of spending ? ultimately , these be decision for government . to govern be to choose . this government must own their choice , but sadly it be the public who will have to pay for they . rise — Order . I must now announce an immediate five - minute time limit for Back - Bench speaker , with the exception of the Chair of the Select Committee . a few month ago I stand in this Chamber and tell a story that I wish I do not have to tell . it be about my 91 - year - old grandmother , and the night that we have to rush she to hospital with a suspect heart attack , only to be tell on arrival that the average waiting time be nine and a half hour . our brilliant NHS staff work tirelessly , but after 14 year of Tory neglect the truth be painfully clear : our health service have be push to breaking point , and my family do not receive the urgent care that we need and deserve . I know that my story be not unique . I hear it time and again , on the doorstep , in community centre and in my constituency surgery . there be a painful fear , share by so many , that the NHS on which we all depend will not be there when we need it most . let we be honest about why that be : it be not because our NHS staff be not work hard enough — far from it . they be hero in every sense of the word . I thank my hon . friend for give way on his point about how brilliant our NHS staff be . first , will he commend my dad for his 40 year ' service badge as an NHS staff member ? that have to be put on the record . secondly , do my hon . friend agree that the Government be laser - focused on support NHS staff to stay in the NHS , work their way up the rank and lead a fulfilling career in serve our constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and for the work that her family have do for our national health service . it be not the staff ' s fault that our NHS have be let down ; it be because of Tory Government after Tory Government , and decision after decision . fourteen year of conservative mismanagement have hollow out our health service , and I welcome the opportunity to discuss this important issue today . although I might not see eye to eye on everything with the Liberal Democrats , there be one truth that we can not ignore : the NHS be face serious challenge , and real change and investment be need . however , people back home be not cry out for more motion ; they be cry out for action , for delivery , and for change that they can see and feel . with this Labour Government , they be finally get it . when we come into office , we do not come in to manage decline ; we come in to turn thing around , to rebuild , and to restore a sense of hope and pride in our public service , start with our NHS . we have see that work across the country , with waiting list fall for six month in a row . in my city , this Government have finally secure funding for the new woman and child ' s hospital that resident in Milton Keynes — a grow city — so desperately need , and construction be set to start in 2027 - 28 . for too long , family have walk through the door of my local hospital , which be simply not fit for purpose and have some of the long waiting list in the country . let I be clear : it be completely unacceptable that it have take this long to get funding in place . Milton Keynes have be one of the fast grow city in the country for year , and we have be leave with far few hospital bed than we deserve and far few than the national average . despite some of the comment from Conservative Members , and despite the Conservative Government plaster the new hospital on all their leaflet , how much funding be actually secure by my hospital under the last Conservative Government ? give that it be " fully fund " , one would assume the figure be 100 % . be it 50 % or 10 % ? no , just 4 % of the " fully fund " hospital promise be actually secure by the previous Government . it be this Government who have find the other 96 % to ensure that we can finally build the hospital that my city so desperately deserve . we be now try to deliver a hospital that have be delay not by local failure , but by national dither . thank to this Government , I get to be the MP who deliver what Tory MP after Tory MP promise my city but fail to deliver . I want to ensure that we do not face further delay — not just because of the health risk to my city , but because of the cost increase . I have be tell that every single month this project be hold up cost an extra £ 700 , 000 . that £ 700 , 000 could be invest in other important project that have be mention by member across the House . one potential hold - up be the Hospital 2 . 0 programme , which I be tell be still not complete . will the Minister look at whether that important work will hold up project that we know be ready to go , such as in Milton Keynes ? we need to fast - track these project through the Treasury to ensure that there be no far bureaucratic blockage once the go - ahead have be give , especially bear in mind that we have a track record in Milton Keynes of build to budget and on time . give we the tool and we will build the hospital . we must also be honest about what happen after the ribbon be cut . even if we build the hospital , our health system in Milton Keynes will still be operate under immense strain . thank to the legacy of the last Government , our integrate care board be one of the most , if not the most , underfunde per person in the entire country . that have real consequence . it mean that place include my local hospice , Willen hospice , which have provide vital end of life care to many member of my family , be be leave to scrape by . this Sunday I will be run the London marathon for our local hospice , because I care deeply about the work it do . marathon should not be the funding model for our healthcare system . we need sustainable investment , which start with fair funding for our ICB and fair treatment for a city that have be overlook for too long . I will support anything in this House that help we fix our NHS , and I will work with anybody who want to rebuild it , but I will also say this : I be proud to be a member of a Government who be finally not just talk about the problem , but get on with the solution . let we build that hospital , let we fund our service properly , let we fix what be break , and let we give people back the healthcare system they so desperately deserve . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation clearly set out the impact that " capital starvation " have have on the NHS in recent year , and the importance of capital spending to fix the health service . the report highlight substantial shortfall in capital investment , combine with a tendency to raid capital budget to cover in - year spending deficit , so I welcome today ' s Liberal Democrat motion , which allow Parliament to highlight how important these issue be to the public . this be the second Liberal Democrat Opposition day , and it be the second time we have debate health and social care . it be because it be a priority for the country that it be a priority for we . the Health and Social Care Committee have take a keen interest in the new hospital programme . we have challenge the Government to maintain their capital spending and not fall into the trap of the past , when capital spending be redirect to fund day - to - day spending , so I be pleased to receive confirmation from the Department , and now from the Dispatch Box , that the Chancellor ' s change to the fiscal rule will stop future raid on the capital budget , or CDEL , to fund the day - to - day spending budget , or RDEL . that be hugely welcome . however , although the protection of capital budget be reassuring , I remain concerned about the lack of transparency around how the funding be allocate by the Treasury . the charge level at the Government be that funding be be funnel into acute care to tackle waiting list , at the expense of fund primary care , infrastructure and care in the community . clearly , on current commitment , we will not see capital funding that be sufficient to meet anything close to the unfunded promise make by the Tories in 2020 . nevertheless , the principle of invest in our hospital infrastructure be good ; money will be save in the long run on maintenance and emergency repair , as well as provide a well quality of care . in the policy paper on the plan for implement the new hospital programme , the Government state that funding will reach only £ 3 billion in the early 2030 due to " other key priority in health spending , such as funding to enable the Secretary of State ' s 3 shift " . that be good , but we need transparency around how decision be make and which project be choose . in January , the Secretary of State provide the criterion by which the scheme be score and funding be allocate , such as site constraint and maturity of planning permission , but it be disappointing that , as I understand it — I be willing to be correct — the review be conduct without the involvement of the trust team responsible for deliver the rebuild programme . as of last month , no trust with a new hospital programme scheme have be provide with the full detail of how it score specifically against the criterion . the Health and Social Care Committee have ask how the Department be prioritise scheme and have not receive a clear answer , so my question be very simple : in the interest of transparency , will the Secretary of State publish , for every single new hospital programme scheme that be subject to last year ' s review , the detail and finding of the Department ' s assessment of they against each of the criterion that be publish alongside his statement in the House of Commons on 20 January 2025 ? it be the very least that the scheme that feel deprioritise deserve , and we be hear many example of those from member of different party . I choose to believe that this outcome be inadvertent but , frankly , it just look a bit shady . we have see it happen before with the levelling - up money under the previous Government . the Public Accounts Committee , on which I know many member have serve , as have I , have a motto : sunlight be the good disinfectant . if the Government will not publish the detailed assessment , the Minister need to explain why . my local area , like so many other , have be affect by this issue . last year I visit the John Radcliffe hospital , which serve much of Oxfordshire , and I see at first hand how its capacity to deliver care be be severely constrain by the size and condition of the physical estate . we go to visit the old site of the neonatal intensive care unit , which have to be move because the staff be worried about the ceiling literally come down on sick child and on incubator . it be atrocious . the John Radcliffe hospital want to be world - leading . it be a specialist tertiary care hospital , which mean it be able to perform very specialist surgery , and it want a new building to do that in . when it put to the Government a bid for £ 28 million , it be reject . instead , it have go out to seek private financing , and it will now cost the trust £ 46 million to deliver the exact same building . would it not have make sense for the Government to allow the trust to borrow from the Government to build it , and then to pay the money back from its own reserve over time ? think what it could have do with that £ 18 million . I know the John Radcliffe hospital , which serve some of my constituent . the hon . Lady have make a powerful case about the amount of money that have potentially be lose through this process . would she , however , reflect on the role play by her party , particularly the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , and the amount of money waste on the disastrous top - down reorganisation of the NHS under the coalition Government ? I have to say that that be quite a segue . we be focus on the capital estate . we all know that there be problem with the Lansley reform . in fact , I welcome the fact that it be be unravelled , and I be pretty vocal about it at the time . the saving the John Radcliffe could have realise might have be spend on hospital at home service and other way to divert people away from come into A & E in the first place . across the wide Oxford university hospital NHS foundation trust , £ 100 million of backlog be deem as high or significant risk . pausing or delay plan to rebuild hospital be a false economy , and hospital around the country , include the John Radcliffe , be overspend on maintenance as a result . that be not limit to our hospital ; we be also see it in GP practice , many of which date from well before 1948 . I will declare an interest in that my own surgery — the Summertown health centre — be one of those practice . it be do incredibly well , despite work out of a very old victorian building . it be desperate for a new site , and it be deem one of the top priority for the ICB . I note that the Minister mention a figure of £ 102 million , but , frankly , that do not touch the side . as in the case of the John Radcliffe , the Summertown health centre be now go out to seek private finance , which it will find a way to pay back slowly over time . the Exchequer would not even have to lay out this money in advance , and even with inflation , the amount it would get back be less than what the health centre have to pay to do this with private finance . I ask the Government to think about this innovatively . it be not the same as the PFI . it be the Government use their own borrowing rule to allow investment in vital public service , and it make no sense that they can not do it . when it come to mental health service , we have the incredible Warneford hospital in Oxfordshire , and Warneford Park in Oxford will provide a new cutting - edge mental health hospital surround by a research and innovation hub . groundbreake research be plan on understand brain health and discover new drug therapy and new form of treatment . this be a great vision , but it will cost £ 500 million . we do have private benefactor , include local business , willing to feed into it , but where be the funding pot for mental health trust ? they be exclude from the new hospital programme , and it be not at all clear where that kind of money may be find . I would like to share a story from a constituent who call I last night . her daughter have psychosis and be lock in a room at the local hospital , with a mattress on the floor and two security guard outside . she be there for a week wait for mental health provision in a setting outside the hospital . I would like the Minister to tell I what mental health provision will be in place . I be so sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . in Lord Darzi ' s report , there be some stark picture of he sit in substandard accommodation for the very sick in our society . the Health and Social Care Committee be currently undertake an inquiry into severe mental ill health , because we know that mental health be so often forget in the NHS . it be good that the mental health investment standard have be continue , but it be sad that the overall spend as a proportion of NHS spend be go down this year for the first time in the last few year . we very much hope that this be not a trend , but a one - off , and that it will continue to rise from next year . for the Warneford , we need to understand what new innovative funding pot we can put together . we understand that the Government be work across Departments , and this project would be as much of an advantage to the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology as to the Department of Health and Social Care . where be these pot of money , because they be important ? I will end simply by say that I completely agree with the thrust of the motion — and , indeed , with what the Government have themselves say — which be that if we invest in capital expenditure , we need to take an invest to save approach . we know that this matter to our constituent , and we know that they can not get the service they so desperately need . if we be to achieve the three shift , we should not be pit they against each other . invest in capital will help the three shift to succeed , and we do will the Government and the NHS to succeed . with an immediate four - minute time limit , I call Emily Darlington . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for introduce the debate . we will be talk a lot about Milton Keynes , because if you wait for a speech about its hospital , you get two at once . for I , the story about Milton Keynes hospital be really personal , as it involve my family and my in - law . unfortunately , I lose both my in - law in the year lead up to my be elect to this place . what I would like to say about the care my family , my in - law and my child have have be that the team at Milton Keynes hospital — the staff from the chief executive to the consultant , the doctor , the nurse and the porter — be all so professional . I be sure everyone in this House would want to join I in thank they for their absolute persistence in the work they have have to do just to keep the NHS go over the last 14 year . I work closely with the hospital in my constituency for many year as deputy leader of Milton Keynes council , and the council have to step in when the Government do not . it be with funding from the council that we be able to build the new cancer centre and the new radiotherapy unit that will open very soon . it be because of the close work relationship with the council that the hospital have some of the low bed block wait in the country . with our team integrate into the hospital , we make sure that the people who be able to go home go home with a care package as soon as possible , because it be our belief in Milton Keynes , and it be my belief as deputy leader , that people want to be in their home . despite all that work , Milton Keynes hospital have have some of the long waiting list in the country . that be partly due to the 14 year of underfunding of Milton Keynes . when there be over 30 , 000 people wait for non - urgent elective operation , with 1 , 762 of they have be wait for more than a year , these do not feel like non - urgent case , because those people be not allow to live a proper life , to play with their grandchild or to go back to work as fast as they should . there be both a social cost and an economic cost . I be pleased to say that , with the investment by this Government to reduce waiting time , we have see wait time go down , but they be still too long . unlike a lot of other hospital we will talk about today , much of the issue for Milton Keynes be that it serve the fast grow area in our region . in fact , it be grow at double the rate of anywhere else in the great south - east . that mean that our population be set to double to 410 , 000 people by 2050 . on average , 11 people move to Milton Keynes every single day . that be not new in Milton Keynes , because we have be develop community , home and business for quite some time under the leadership of the Labour council . what have fail time and again in Milton Keynes be the investment that we need in our local hospital , but this Government and these Milton Keynes mps will actually deliver what be promise over and over again but never deliver by the conservative party . lay in an operating theatre , a patient at North Devon district hospital in my constituency can take great comfort in know that they be surround by some of the most dedicated healthcare professional in the world . but astonishingly , the operate theatre around they be little change since it be first build in 1978 . the theatre be barely 60 % of the size the NHS now expect , and it can not accommodate more modern equipment . much of the air - handle system and ventilation infrastructure have either never be upgrade , or be simply beyond repair when it break down . that be a critical risk to patient care . North Devon district hospital now have a maintenance backlog of £ 44 million , over £ 13 million of which be for its operating theatre alone . there be no independent provider , and the next near NHS acute hospital be more than 40 mile away . the trust say that fail theatre facility be the most urgent threat it face during the next five year — not 10 year , but five — so what happen next ? well , we know what happen , because that exact scenario strike Torbay hospital in 2018 , with fail air - handle infrastructure close down a number of operate theatre and cause widespread cancellation of surgery for more than a year . North Devon district hospital face the same nightmare . thank to woeful behaviour by the last Conservative Government , not a single penny be put in place to do something about it . now the Labour Government say that none of the plan rebuild will be deliver until after 2035 . North Devon be one of nine hospital push right to the back of the line by the new hospital programme review , and the Government still fail to recognise the increase maintenance cost that will flow from that decision . if the government ignore the symptom , the problem will only get bad . our hospital trust have put forward alternative plan for a last refurbishment at North Devon district hospital that would cost just £ 250 million — a fraction of what be really need , but enough to keep the maximum number of operate theatre open beyond 2027 and avoid spiral cost down the line . I thank the Minister for agree to visit North Devon district hospital to see the facility and to listen to the trust board ' s proposal . I be really grateful to the Minister for listening , but I urge the Government to seize the initiative and act now before it be too late . in 2020 , the Conservative Government announce the new hospital programme . the Prime Minister at the time , know for his complicated relationship with the truth , say that spade be in the ground , but it be clear from their disastrous 14 year in power that we can not build on promise alone and we can not change the country on empty slogan . fast forward to today , and the Labour Government have commit to build the hospital not just with word , but with cold hard cash and a credible plan for delivery . I note that the Liberal Democrats appear to try to draw a comparison between the inheritance leave to the coalition Government and that leave to this Government by the previous Conservative Government . I have to take the opportunity to remind they that the coalition Government be leave an NHS with the high patient satisfaction on record and the low waiting list on record . I welcome the progress make once again by this Labour Government in bring down waiting list six month in a row . I be delighted that Leighton hospital in my constituency will be in wave 1 of the new hospital programme . Leighton have be in desperate need of an upgrade for some time . building begin on a new modular unit in January 2025 , with some service due to move there by the summer of 2025 . the original out - patient department have RAAC plank in the roof that be now well beyond their lifespan . recent risk assessment have grade the condition as catastrophic , with an incident likely . that compound the betrayal of the empty promise from the previous Government . the rebuild will mean that the hospital can serve my constituent , who desperately need medical facility , for many year to come . the value of that be immeasurable . I also welcome the Government ' s commitment to change the way we use health service . the NHS be our most beloved institution and it have serve we effectively for a long time , but it must adapt . that be why I particularly welcome plan to turn Leighton into a health and care neighbourhood , transform it into a site where provision be join up ; a place where resource be utilise well and people be actively involve in their care ; a place where technology , digital and datum help both proactive and personalise care to be more effective ; and a place where we look after each other , we collaborate and people join force to improve the whole . in my constituency , there have be a popular campaign for a general hospital for many decade without success . give that we do not even make it on to Boris ' s fantasy list of 40 hospital , we be certainly not go to succeed now . in the absence of that hospital , what we need be a strategy to move more of the treatment for which distance really matter into small local clinic . in Horsham , that might include wound dressing and sexual health service . do the hon . Member agree that if we be go to continue to be deny the hospital we deserve , the kind of localise treatment strategy he be suggest could be implement at very low cost ? I agree with the hon . member that we must move care into the community . where we be not able to build hospital as quickly as we would like to , community care be so important . the NHS need to be reform to serve an age population , take long - term patient care out of hospital and put care back into the heart of community . we need more join - up proactive , health and social care service , and we need to change our mindset from sickness to prevention . in support of that , the NHS Confederation set out in a recent report that work more at the neighbourhood level , which the Government intend to do , can improve people ' s health and wellbeing . I appreciate the effort and sentiment from the Liberal Democrats today , but big promise with no clear plan be what get we into this mess to begin with . empty word to gain vote have destroy voter ' confidence in our politic , and only a sensible government with a credible plan for delivery of their commitment will restore that trust , so I be thankful that this Government ' s approach have be to set out a clear plan to deliver . Labour be the party of the NHS , from the original conception of the service back in the ' 40 to the modern day . I be confident that , as we have already see in the example I cite from Leighton , this Government will deliver for the british people . I be grateful for the chance to speak in today ' s debate and to be able to give voice to so many of my constituent ' frustration about how their right to access quality healthcare have be deprioritise by this Labour Government . many of my constituent , especially those in the north of my constituency , be serve by the Epsom and St Helier university hospital NHS trust . to be blunt , the situation at the trust today be simply not sustainable — clinically , financially or structurally . the trust currently operate two acute hospital , in Epsom and St Helier , with duplicate service spread across both site . the arrangement , while a product of historical necessity , today place considerable pressure on clinical team . allocation of staff member between site be challenging and service delivery be stretch . no matter how commit the staff — their dedication be beyond question — they be constantly be ask to do more with less , in building that be often quite literally fall apart around they . to give just one brief example , early this year St Helier be force to cancel schedule blood test because of widespread flooding in the phlebotomy section . we simply can not go on like this . indeed , time be not a luxury we have , with the estate now deteriorate fast than it can be fix . the trust be spend million every year simply to keep the most urgent problem at bay : patch leak , cope with flooding , and address the bad outbreak of damp and mould . I think we all agree that these be not the condition in which 21st - century healthcare should be deliver . that be why it be so disappointing to learn early this year that the plan specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton — a long - stand scheme under the new hospital programme that be carefully conceive to address the very issue I have mention — have be delay to the point that work will now not even begin until 2030 to 2035 , with opening come in 2037 at the early . the new hospital will consolidate emergency care into one state - of - the - art facility , deliver world - class treatment , fast access to care , and safe outcome . at the same time , it will allow for major investment at Epsom and St Helier hospital , help to modernise crumble building , improve plan care pathway and ensure that most service remain close to home . under the trust ' s plan , 85 % of service would remain on the Epsom and St Helier site , include out - patient care and diagnostic appointment . local people would continue to receive the vast majority of their care where they always have do , but would benefit from short waiting time and access to well facility , particularly for surgery . I passionately believe that the new hospital at Sutton be a once - in - a - generation chance to overhaul healthcare provision and ensure that my constituent receive the high - quality care they deserve in a timely fashion . the new Sutton hospital will sit in my constituency . in 2020 , we be promise by the former Member for Sutton and Cheam that the hospital would open in 2025 ; indeed , he continue to have that claim on his website . do the hon . Lady agree that the failure to deliver any new hospital in Sutton borough , whether at Belmont or St Helier , be entirely down to the failure of the previous Government to fund and bring forward these project while they be in power ? I can confirm to the hon . member that if the Conservatives be in power , we would be deliver that hospital . I want to be clear : the trust be ready to move forward , and clinical consensus have be secure ; what be now urgently need be commitment from the Government to drive the programme forward . after all , patient and staff alike deserve well than to spend another decade or more in facility that be not fit for modern healthcare delivery . they deserve to know that promise make through the new hospital programme will be honour , not quietly shelve or endlessly defer by this Government . I urge Ministers in the strong possible term to look again at the decision to delay Sutton emergency care hospital and to provide the long - term certainty the trust need to proceed — not in 2035 , but now . I be glad that we be take the time today to discuss the immensely important issue of the state of our NHS hospital . nowhere be it more obvious that our NHS have be break over the past 14 year than in our crumble NHS estate . our NHS have be starve of capital funding , and the backlog maintenance bill now stand at more than £ 11 billion . research from the NHS Confederation show that nine in 10 NHS leader believe that the crumble NHS estate be undermine their ability to tackle the elective backlog . this be devastating . it be apparent in my constituency , with Hillingdon hospital plague by flooding , sewage overflow , fail lift and outdated equipment . the need for a new hospital in Hillingdon be not new — my predecessor ' s predecessor describe the hospital as no long fit for purpose many year ago , and pledge at the time to replace it . the Lib Dems be right today in their condemnation of the previous Government ' s record , with their fantasy hospital programme that seem to exist only in the mind of Boris Johnson , and never in the reality of the Treasury ' s decision . resident in Uxbridge have be lead up the garden path time and again , with false promise upon false promise , a funding package that be never approve and build work that never begin — to this day , not a stone have be lay and no ground have be break . at the election , no business case have be agree , the hospital design be still be tweak , and no contractor have be appoint . rather than be fully fund , only £ 70 million of £ 1 billion have ever be provide . I be glad , therefore , that the Labour Government have prioritise capital investment , with capital spending increase by £ 13 . 6 billion in the Budget , and I be grateful for the progress we be now make with a realistic , honest and deliverable timescale for the programme . after year of broken promise , people be feed up and need action , delivery and credible commitment . that be why it be disappointing that the Lib Dem motion today , if approve , risk lead again to unfunded commitment , promise to deliver all the hospital simply through a new taskforce . that be not how hospital be build or pay for . it do not feel to I like a credible fund programme ; instead , it be a recipe for more talk , more delay and more inaction . I know that the community in Uxbridge and South Ruislip be now reassure that Hillingdon hospital have be include in wave 1 , with a capital envelope agree in recent week of nearly £ 1 . 4 billion . instead of more word or a taskforce , we have deliver solid agreement and funded commitment — a real plan for change . the hospital be now finalise its business case and design . a contractor will be appoint and on site in 2027 , and construction work will start in 2028 . it be essential that the new hospital programme continue to work at pace to provide my constituent and all resident in this country with the quality of care they deserve . I be sure the Minister would expect all member to hold the Government to account for the delivery of the programme . turn to the concrete action we could take to deliver the hospital programme more quickly , long - term revenue funding for new wave 1 team be much need so that they can work at pace , as well as a simplified planning process for new hospital . I welcome the Government ' s planning reform and Planning and Infrastructure Bill . I hope that Lib Dem Members will support the Bill , which seek to speed up the delivery of critical national infrastructure . as well as investment in hospital , we need investment right across our NHS estate , as have be discuss today . I have meet GPs who be use store cupboard as consult space and hear from pharmacy that want to do more but be desperately lack the space to deliver Pharmacy First service in privacy . the Wakley centre , which provide sexual health service in my constituency , be cram into an outdated building , use every inch of space , and be desperate for more modern space to do preventive work . I agree entirely with the hon . gentleman on the need for investment outside of hospital , but do he agree that we also need smart investment ? Dorset NHS foundation trust , along with Somerset NHS foundation trust and university hospital Dorset , have submit a business case for an integrated electronic health record system that would allow they to work together , share information and , ultimately , save the NHS money . do he agree that this be exactly the kind of technological advancement the NHS should be fund ? we need to think not just about building , but about digital infrastructure and investment in a whole range of capital investment need for the NHS for it to be a modern , fit - for - purpose service . it sound like the measure the hon . Gentleman suggest be sensible . there be a strong desire in the emerge 10 - year plan to shift to neighbourhood health service , which would also require capital investment . three neighbourhood hub be plan in Hillingdon , but there be still no clear site and no capital investment to make they a reality . we need a long - term infrastructure strategy for the NHS , alongside our 10 - year health plan . I welcome the significant increase in capital spending for the NHS at the Budget . I also think the Government ' s new commitment to protect capital budget in the NHS be vital . far too often , under the previous Government , those budget be raid for short - term investment to plug revenue - base gap ; now that have come to an end , which be very welcome . my constituent have wait long enough for Hillingdon hospital . we do not need more taskforce or review , but concrete fund plan of action . at last , we have from this new Labour Government a fully fund new hospital programme ready to be deliver . I look forward to construction start and work with this Government to deliver health service that be fit for the future . I fully support reverse the delay to the new hospital programme and want to emphasise the importance of investment in community health provision , which offer multiple benefit to patient and the health service . there be currently no out - of - hour healthcare provision anywhere in my constituency . patient typically have to travel to Swindon , Bath or Salisbury for urgent medical treatment or , at well , the minor injury unit in Chippenham or Trowbridge . Most of the constituency , include Melksham and Devizes town , have limit public transport option to get to major hospital , with patient unable to travel by car face lengthy bus journey . in Melksham , we already have a work community hospital that offer a range of healthcare service , from physio to consultant out - patient appointment , but it have be without a minor injury unit since 2008 . on occasion , people in need of urgent treatment for cut and broken bone turn up at the hospital only to be turn away without so much as a sticking plaster . that simply be not good enough . Melksham be see ongoing development in and around the town , which be drive population growth , yet we have not see the investment in service and infrastructure to match . if the long - term strategic goal be to shift more care out of large hospital and into community hub , be there not a clear case to consider expand service at under - utilise site , such as at Melksham community hospital ? investment in service , such as in a minor injury unit at a Melksham community site , not only offer great convenience and potentially improve outcome for patient , but be cost - effective , decrease demand on overstretch service at major hospital and reduce congestion on our road . I very much hope that the Department will consider the compelling case for upgrade community hospital , and I would welcome the chance to meet the Minister to discuss the specific case for Melksham and to bring representative from the Friends of Melksham Hospital with I . it be a pleasure to follow the early speech of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) . I hope Members will forgive I , but they be about to be treat to more information about the hospital of Mid Cheshire and south Cheshire . we on the Labour Benches be incredibly proud of our NHS . it be one of our country ' s great achievement , and be found on the principle that everyone , no matter their background or circumstance , should have access to high - quality healthcare that be free at the point of use . that simple idea have save million of life , and offer comfort , healing and hope to generation . however , after 14 year of conservative failure , the NHS be leave on life support , with record waiting list , surgery and appointment cancel or delay , a workforce wear down and undervalue , and hospital crumble . that be the legacy of the previous Conservative Government — a legacy of neglect , underfunding and broken promise . nowhere be that clear than in the new hospital programme that they introduce in 2020 . this be mean to be their flagship plan to modernise the NHS estate — to replace crumble building and ensure that patient and staff have the safe , modern environment that they deserve — but the scheme be build on shaky foundation . from the start , the scheme be plague by delay , confusion and a complete lack of proper funding . the reality behind the headline be that very few hospital see any real progress . in many case , the money simply be not there . let I take the case of Leighton hospital , which serve my constituent in Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich , and four other hospital across the country . all be know to be riddle with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . expert warn of a " catastrophic " risk to patient safety . structural engineer say an incident be " likely " . in simple term , these building be fall down , but what do the previous Government do ? when the programme be first publish , the plan to rebuild those five hospital be block . the previous Government choose to ignore the warning , ignore the patient and ignore NHS staff work every day in building that have be declare unsafe . it be not until 2023 that the previous Government finally amend the new hospital programme to include Leighton and the other RAAC - affect hospital . by then , year have already be waste — time that we do not have — and even that decision come without a real plan , without a timeline and , crucially , without the funding need to do the job . what be offer to my local community be not a solution ; it be false hope dress up as progress . the promise crumble fast than the hospital that the previous Government fail to rebuild . in contrast , this Government be deliver . we be not just talk about change ; we be make it happen . we be rebuild the NHS from the foundation up and , just as importantly , rebuild trust that the Government will deliver on their promise on the NHS . at Leighton hospital , we be prove it : the funding have be confirm to the trust ; the ground investigation be under way ; and the project be move forward . this be not just talk , but action . but let we be clear : rebuild Leighton be not just a matter of replace concrete ; this be our opportunity to do something big . we have a chance to build a healthcare neighbourhood that reflect the future — a modern , resilient facility that will serve community for generation to come and will meet the challenge of 21st century healthcare . this be not just about brick and mortar ; it be about people , it be about care and it be about build a system that reflect our value . we be tackle the root cause of the crisis that the Conservatives have leave behind . we be reduce waiting list through more appointment , well use of technology , and support for our overstretched staff . we be train and recruit the doctor , nurse , and carer of the future . we be end the stick plaster politic of the last decade and a half and build an NHS that be fit for the future . in rural community like mine , our issue be very often about the distance that we have to travel in order to get any kind of healthcare , but particularly to reach hospital . in Morecambe bay , which cover three quarter of my constituency population - wise , we be fund as if we have one hospital , but have to have three . one way that we have get around that be to have funding for GP surgery to provide minor injury care in place like Grange , Ambleside , Hawkshead and beyond — yet , as of 1 April , our local integrate care board have cancel that funding . there be a total of 1 , 221 minor injury assessment last year ; they be now push on to the urgent treatment centre at Kendal , potentially overload that excellent centre , but also cause huge harm to people who live in those rural and disperse place , and undermine the funding model for those GP surgery and put they at risk . I would love it if the Minister have word with the ICB to challenge it on this . tomorrow , the ICB for Lancashire and South Cumbria will meet . on its agenda may or may not be , but jolly well should be , the decision to approve and to seek a new provider of GP service in the community of Coniston . we have know for three month that the excellent Dr Frey and Dr Abbas be retire and leave their post in July , and the ICB have drag its foot for three month , despite the community clamour for action . we present a petition of over 1 , 000 signature in this place just a few week ago for there to be a replacement of the GP surgery to serve the community in Coniston . when it come to the new hospital programme , I acknowledge the fantasy figure behind the previous Government ' s non - existent programme , but I point out that land be available in the large district general hospital site serve Lancaster in the southern part of my constituency . it be right next to the new medical school at Lancaster University and it be absolutely shovel - ready . there be no logical reason for it to be in the last division of the third phase of the programme , which mean that it will not be build until the 2030 . I urge the Minister to think again on that point . the Minister will be unsurprise to hear I use my last minute and a bit to talk about radiotherapy . in the northern part of my constituency , in place like Appleby , people who have cancer be able to get good quality radiotherapy treatment at Carlisle , but in the southern three quarter of my constituency , people have to make return journey , sometimes of four hour a day for week on end , to get radiotherapy treatment at our near centre in Preston . that be outrageous . that be why we be ask for there to be a satellite radiotherapy unit at the Westmorland general hospital in Kendal . this be not just about convenience . accord to an OECD recommendation , radiotherapy should be the primary treatment for cancer in 53 % of case ; shamefully , in the UK , it be in only 36 % of case . Lancashire and South Cumbria rank 42nd of 42 icb , with only 29 % of people with cancer receive radiotherapy . that be in no small part down to the failure to provide that treatment within our community . it be absolutely the case that the long the journey to treatment , the short the life expectancy of the people suffer with cancer . I urge the Minister finally to make the decision , which we have be demand for year , to add to the chemotherapy service , to the diagnostic and to the cancer surgery that we now have at Kendal . it be wonderful to win those campaign , but the one thing that we be miss be radiotherapy . it be time that we bring it to the people of Westmorland , so that they can have short journey and long live . I have a unique case to make in this debate on behalf of my constituent and Merton council . we do not want the new emergency hospital at Belmont , which be in phase 2 of the hospital rebuilding programme . in direct contrast to the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , I have fight this scheme for 25 year against all government — my own Government , the coalition Government and the Conservative Government . this plan will take the hospital away from my constituent with the great health need , the large level of deprivation , the low car use , the high hospital admission and the great level of chronic condition , and take it to healthy , wealthy Belmont at a cool cost of £ 1 . 5 billion . the hospital will provide 80 few bed than we have at the moment , serve 83 , 000 few patient , and put increase pressure on St George ' s hospital in Tooting and Croydon University hospital — both hospital that the Care Quality Commission have say need few patient to arrive at their site . this scheme would give they more patient . bad than that , it depend on a 3 % annual reduction in length of hospital stay and a 3 % annual reduction in activity . what hospital in the country have experience a reduction in activity ? it be also base on increase access to mental health service , which should have be provide last year , the development of community paediatric pathway , a child development centre — yet to be see — and the reopening of the Wilson hospital in Mitcham . that hospital have not be reopen ; the money have not be find , so it remain closed . the scheme be also dependent on an increase in home birth in Mitcham and Morden , which have the high level of social housing , the great housing deprivation and the most overcrowded condition in the region . this be the Tudor Hart law writ large , where hospital service be take away from those who need they most and give to the area that need they least . I ask the Minister : save taxpayer ' money . already £ 50 million have be spend consult on this scheme . nobody want it and nobody support it . leave St Helier hospital as it be . spend the money that the Government have on St Helier hospital and give well service to those who need they most . the motion start by refer to " hospital across the country " , but most of the debate today have be about England . I want to highlight the situation that have arise from the decision make in this House on capital investment and change to fiscal rule , and how that affect Northern Ireland and the capital investment there . capital investment in the health estate in Northern Ireland have be broadly stable for the 15 year prior to 2019 — until 2020 when the covid pandemic bring about increase capital investment . the long tail of the pandemic , compound by Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , significantly disrupt global supply chain and increase construction cost . those price increase have compound a subsequent and very serious problem in Northern Ireland : the outcome of the two most recent Budgets , which have mean that the funding available for capital investment in Northern Ireland be now project to be 16 % low per head of population than England for ' 25 - 26 , and therefore much low than any assess relative need would suggest . while I listen to the complaint of many english colleague across the House about capital investment , in some case I be quite envious of what they be be allocate , because it be a contrast to what we have . much of our health and social care capital budget be project - base . as the former Minister of Health in Northern Ireland , I be acutely aware that there be an increase need to address the serious risk across our health and social care estate . that include tackle its backlog maintenance liability , which currently sit at £ 1 . 4 billion . now , as a constituency MP , I see the impact of below - need budget on project in South Antrim . the new Birch Hill mental health centre be a much - need , purpose - build facility to provide the very good environment for assessment , treatment and recovery . yet under the budget that the Executive have provide the Department of Health , there be not enough to fund what have already be commit to , include the Executive ' s flagship project , to meet current contractual commitment , to progress project in design or development , or to fund even limited maintenance of exist property asset . good project and massive potential be be lose because the Executive can not seem to think even six month down the line , never mind one or two year . nevertheless , Birch Hill remain high on the agenda of our Department of Health , and I hope that the executive party responsible for funding allocation consider the consequence of their decision and recognise the critical need for the project . for mother and baby in Northern Ireland , it would also provide a centre for perinatal mental health and wellbeing . I join the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) who say that the motion be welcome but what we would like to see be action . that action would be the certainty of have budget , and assurance that it will be a recurrent budget . I look to the word of the Secretary of State for Health , who talk about transformation in the health service and how it need both funding and political will . I hope that follow today ' s debate he can get both . I must confess that I be slightly surprised that the Lib Dems have bring forward an Opposition day debate about hospital and be state their case in such a way , because the last thing we need in this country be a load of promise we can not keep . I be proud that we Government member have provide sustainable and affordable plan for the new hospital programme . I have be on the doorstep the last few week in the run - up to the county council election , and the no . 1 priority that come up be GP access . we have provide 1 , 500 new gp post in this country , and waiting list have be go down for the last five month . emergency dentistry be also very commonly bring up on the doorstep , and we have provide 700 , 000 new dentist appointment . there be many other part of the NHS that be crumble . I see the crumbling of the hospital building as a metaphor for what have happen to the NHS over the last 14 year . my hon . friend be talk about the important work do by Lord Darzi , and the finding on crumble hospital in England . he may be interested to hear that recent figure show that the bill for the high - risk repair need to scottish hospital stand at £ 64 million . those repair have not be carry out under the SNP . they include two high - risk repair that be badly need , and have be outstanding since 2016 , at Cameron hospital in Fife , which be use by some of my constituent . do my hon . friend agree that the Scottish Government should use some of the record funding provide to they by this Labour Government to fix our hospital in Scotland ? of course it be essential that we maintain hospital so that they be safe to treat patient in , so I agree with my hon . friend about spend the money . in fact , the backlog bill for repair in the NHS run to £ 13 . 8 billion . I work as a gp in a GP practice , and I note that Lord Darzi estimate that £ 37 billion more should have be spend on the NHS since 2010 , but be not . for those of we work in the NHS , it do feel like that . there be a massive building project ahead of we . I point out that the previous Labour Government build 100 new hospital . one be the Vale hospital in Dursley , which we start in 2008 , and which I have a hand in . as hon . member have say , community hospital such as Vale hospital be crucial to how the NHS work . we must invest in our community hospital and use they properly . the Vale hospital provide excellent minor injury unit service , a specialist stroke service and in - patient bed for the community . we must invest in our community hospital go forward . as we have hear , there be mean to be 40 new hospital in the last few year , but none of they get build , and it turn out that they be not even fund . we need to get care out of hospital and back into the community . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) talk about GP premise ; 20 % of GP premise be build before the inception of the NHS , and I inherit one of those premise in Dursley . twenty year ago , we open a purpose - build surgery at May Lane , and we be still enjoy the benefit ; it provide patient with excellent service . we must therefore invest . I be glad to see the Government invest £ 100 million in GP surgery . I be pleased to see £ 80 million put into GP advice and guidance ; that will allow consultant to give GPs advice , so that they can care for patient in the community . I be also really delighted with the push for neighbourhood health centre ; that must be the way . we must bring back the family doctor , as that continuity of care be what really make patient well . that be so important . we must also integrate health and social care in the community , so that we can pull patient out of hospital . that also apply to emergency care , as far too many people be have to go to overwhelmed A & Es at big district general hospital . at the moment , only 20 % of acute admission go through GPs , who be the good people to ensure that we avoid admission . we have to change all of this . our NHS staff and patient deserve well ; they deserve facility that reflect the excellence of the care provide within they . the Labour Government be commit to rebuild not just our hospital , but trust , and the integrity of our public service . hospital matter to everyone , but hospital fall apart help no one — not patient , not staff and not the economy . the Government have call the NHS " break " . they rightly blame the Conservatives , and criticise the NHS ' s management under their leadership , so why be the Government now make the same mistake ? under the revise new hospital programme , the building of the Royal Berkshire hospital will not commence for another decade . there be little prospect of a new Royal Berkshire to serve the community of Henley , Reading , Newbury , Bracknell and Windsor until the 2040s . doctor who have work in the NHS for over 30 year believe that they will never work in modern building . the cancer centre alone be 164 year old . my hon . friend talk of member of staff with long service . a former nurse with 40 year ' experience in the NHS recently contact I . she take her husband , who have complex need , into hospital , as he have a hand infection , and they be force to wait for over 12 hour in a tiny cubicle with no ventilation . it pain I to hear that story . she work so hard for the NHS , which she feel be down on its knee . do my hon . friend agree that this be a damn indictment of the state of our hospital , and that we urgently need to pursue a major 10 - year capital investment programme to get they back up to speed ? my hon . friend be right to point out the impact of the state of the NHS on the brilliant people who work there . my sister be a nurse in the Royal Preston hospital , and she tell I just how hard it be to walk past people who be be care for in corridor . every week at the Royal Berkshire , an operation be cancel due to power cut , water supply issue , broken lift or malfunction temperature control . those be lose appointment and lose efficiency for the NHS . flood and sinkhole plague the foundation of the Royal Berkshire hospital , which now require relocation , and identify suitable site be set to be put on the market at the end of this year . further inaction by the Government will mean that those carefully lay plan and that funding will amount to nothing . there be also hospital that be never consider for the programme , as my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) point out . I recently visit the Warneford hospital in Oxford , which give in - patient care to patient with severe mental health condition , include schizophrenia , personality disorder and psychosis . I be shock by the condition that patient live in . they be in tight space in dark room , and the infrastructure be georgian . there be room that remind I of recent visit to HMP Huntercombe . I say that rather nervously to the member of staff show I around , worry that I might offend they . they gently hold my arm and say , " Freddie , why do you think we show you these room ? " Staff tell I that cramped condition make it difficult to take break during the day . one worker show I their windowless cupboard office — hardly great for their own mental health . Staff also tell I how work in georgian building impact the quality of their work . sight line in common room be obstruct by pillar ; room be difficult to heat ; and security be difficult to maintain . a new Warneford would cost a fraction of the price of a physical health hospital , and the Government promise to put mental health on the same footing as physical health , so why do the revised new hospital programme not include a single mental health facility ? both the Warneford and the Royal Berkshire have be devastate by the Government ' s lack of foresight . the cut to hospital spending be a decision make to save money , but that be a false economy . over the next 10 year , repair to the Royal Berkshire hospital be project to cost £ 400 million — a quarter of the cost of a new hospital . add to that the many other neglect hospital , and the loss be unthinkable . proper investment in modern infrastructure be need now . in my constituency we have the Townlands Memorial hospital , which show how good the NHS can be with modern infrastructure . anyone who receive care there , whether through the Royal Berkshire NHS foundation trust or the Oxford Health NHS foundation trust , sing its praise . it host over 30 speciality and plan to expand far . let we give our hospital the chance to excel . rise — order . there be an immediate three - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . the previous Government make off - the - cuff commitment to new hospital that be never go to be affordable or deliverable ; I be really proud to be part of a Labour Government who commit only to what we can afford . we stick to our promise and deliver they . the rapid progress that we have make towards improve the NHS , reorient it towards frontline delivery , be a fantastic example of that . over 3 million more appointment be deliver in the first nine month of this Government — that be well ahead of the target — and over 100 , 000 people have be treat on time . those be great statistic , but when I knock on door and meet resident , I hear about the difference that that have make to they and their family . People be back on their foot , back at work , and back be active parent and grandparent soon than they could have imagine . this be politic that be deliver for people . it be not the politic of easy answer , but the politic of progress , and of change to people ' s life . I will highlight one change that will be particularly important in my constituency of Aylesbury as we continue the work of transform the NHS , include through the new hospital programme : the need to well integrate primary and secondary care . there be great potential for saving there , if we think about the secondary and primary care estate in the round . more importantly , that will help bring traditionally hospital base - care close to the community ; it will be well care that have well outcome for people . as I have say in this place before , we face an acute challenge in Aylesbury with our GP surgery . we have new housing estate build in a poorly plan way under the previous Government , without the necessary gp service be provide . we also have particularly high level of deprivation in Aylesbury and the county of Buckinghamshire — it be really mark by inequality — which contribute to the pressure on our GP service . the Government have already make significant progress in improve gp provision ; 1 , 500 new GPs have be recruit , and successful negotiation with the British Medical Association have result in the big uplift in funding for GPs in year . I think that will start to make a real difference . have the hon . Lady have any feedback , in conversation with her GPs , about what the increase employer national insurance contribution will do to their growth of provision ? I be in regular contact with my gps , and I know that they be really pleased , actually , with the uplift in funding that they have receive through the contract , and with what they will be able to deliver with that . as we think about the future of hospital provision , we must think about our healthcare in the round — what each community need more broadly , and how we join up hospital service with those provide by our GPs , and with other community service . I be really excited by the work already under way in Buckinghamshire to establish integrate neighbourhood team and I be pleased at this Government ' s commitment to neighbourhood health centre . in Buckinghamshire , and particularly in Aylesbury , all our key health organisation be come together — include the acute and community nhs trust , primary care , the local authority , public health , the mental health trust and voluntary sector organisation — to agree a collective plan for the next 10 year , which I think could be transformative . they be pool their collective resource and team across Stoke Mandeville hospital and three primary care network , and look not only at create a centre in Aylesbury for share delivery of service , but at provide well care out in the community . as we build our hospital of the future across the country , it be essential that we plan in that way — not just for in - hospital care , but for a join - up approach across all our service , bring that care close to our community . ultimately , that be what people want and what people need : a future healthcare system in which as many people as possible can access care close to home and manage their health in their own home and their own community as well as possible . many of our hospital be crumble , but even those that appear sound may contain hidden danger , notably asbestos . last week I meet a constituent who be suffer from mesothelioma , contract from asbestos . he be very concerned that so many of our hospital and other public building still have asbestos within they , put more people at risk of get that terrible disease . we need a proper survey to find out where all that asbestos be and a plan for its safe removal . I be pleased to hear the Minister talk about the work he be try to do to get more funding for GPs , because that be one of our big problem in Ely and East Cambridgeshire . a while ago , when we nearly lose our gp in Sutton , resident be tell , " never mind — you can go to nearby GPs . " in rural area , however , a gp even a few mile away be inaccessible to anyone who do not have a car . more recently , unexpected change to the bus route with no notice leave patient of the Bottisham practice suddenly unable to get to their gp . we have see a lot of new build around my constituency , not least in Soham , which desperately need a large surgery . I go there and see the condition staff be work in , the tiny space they now have for their pharmacy area and the difficulty they face in serve a much large community than the surgery be build for . the practice have be try for year to get a new surgery , but the procedure for keep or enlarge a surgery or build a new one be incredibly complex , and GPs must put together funding from a range of source . those GPs should be spend their time try to help patient , but they be instead spend their time build business plan and look for funding . as we hear early from a Government Member , we desperately need nhs dentist in my constituency too , and they in turn will need premise . we do not have any major hospital in Ely and East Cambridgeshire , but we rely on those elsewhere to be in good condition when we need they . we need our own Princess of Wales hospital to be in good condition , and we need excellent GP surgery and NHS dentist who can serve we into the future . today ' s debate be a welcome chance to talk about the challenge of our health service . the Darzi report be a stark demonstration of the state in which the health service be leave by the last Government . I know that part of the game today be for our colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches to say , slightly deceitfully , " oh , the Labour mps be support the delay . " , but member across the House will know , if we be honest with ourselves , that we can not delay something that be not go to happen . what of our inheritance ? it stretch far far than just the building ; it include the staff and the patient in they , weaken by austerity and decimate by covid . Lord Darzi talk about £ 37 billion of under - investment in our hospital building in the 2010 . on top of that , what else do we inherit ? do my hon . friend share my real discomfort at the gall of the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) in suggest that somehow this Government be make the same mistake that the Conservative Government make , when it be in the 2010 — under a coalition Government — that the rot start , with the Liberal Democrats ? I think if the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) be to reflect on what he say , he would know that these thing always go a lot deep . what have we inherit ? we inherit 14 , 000 unnecessary death in A & E alone each year . nhs waiting list peak at 7 . 7 million . that be people wait anxiously , need treatment , tumour grow , their body get far from be well , and every day 2 , 000 people be be send to hospital who do not need to be there , because social care have be fail and forget by the previous Government and by the coalition Government . in my constituency , that mean 20 % of bed in our hospital be take up by people who do not need to be there . we have work to do , and I be concerned that in this debate we will get catch up in a discussion about hospital and will not fix the system within they that we need to fix . that be why we have talk about three shift . the first be from hospital to community . we have to stop people need hospital care because they have be fail by care close to home . that be why our revolution in GPs will make a real difference . the second be the shift from fitness to prevention . we can have the good building , but with less prevention they will still be full . finally , there be the shift from analogue to digital ; every week , the Health and Social Care Committee hear about people catch between system and between computer system . although I welcome this debate , we must not fetishise building over people . we need to think holistically about our system and deliver the decade of national renewal that the public vote for . we need to look at all of our health service , across party and in good faith . my constituent be predominantly serve by two hospital : Frimley Park to the east and Basingstoke and North Hampshire to the west . some 65 % of Frimley Park be RAAC concrete , know to be highly unstable , so it be right that it be include in phase 1 of the new hospital programme and prioritise as urgently need a complete new build . Basingstoke and North Hampshire hospital , however , have be move to phase 3 and building be now schedule to begin some time between 2037 and 2039 , leave staff and patient to endure the crumble building for another 15 year . that decision be make without a single ministerial visit — not one . however , I have visit the hospital and see what be need , so I can tell Ministers about the repair need to the ceiling to stop rain come into patient ward and the window that can not open , can not close or be not double - glaze . I can tell Ministers about the air conditioning and filtration system that keep the air clean in the hospital ' s operate theatre , which be already at their maximum capacity . replace those system will become essential within five year , and there be no physical room to add to what be there . I can tell Ministers about the flooring that connect two important part of the hospital over a car entrance , which be in a poor state and hold together with industrial tape . patient be be trolleye across that uneven , unstable flooring on a daily basis . the tape hold the site together be both literal and a metaphor for the state of the system and of hospital right now in this country . minister would know that if they have visit the hospital . one third of the repair need be high - risk — not a phrase we want to hear associate with our hospital structure and system . I completely agree with my hon . friend that in none of the repair we be talk about to our hospital infrastructure do any of we want to use the phrase " high - risk " . Stepping Hill hospital serve my constituent ; I have meet the Minister about it and I look forward to welcome she to visit it later this year . despite need a report £ 134 million spend on it , Stepping Hill be not on the new hospital programme . I be sure my hon . Friend agree that the health of our nation be directly relate to the wealth of our nation , and that invest in hospital infrastructure be thus an extremely good investment in all of our population . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . health and wealth be two side of the same coin and we need to invest in both , which be why the delay be a false economy . maintain Basingstoke and North Hampshire hospital for the next 15 year will cost almost as much as the rebuild , make it a false economy and a categorically bad financial decision as well as a bad health decision . there be no point in invest in a multimillion - pound brand new air filtration system in a building that be fall down . in June 2024 , the Prime Minister who be then the Leader of the opposition visit Basingstoke town but not the hospital . assurance be give and report in the Basingstoke Gazette that the hospital would be build by 2030 . in February after the announcement , I ask the Prime Minister about the logic of the delay , give that it will clearly be a significant financial burden for taxpayer while continue to limit healthcare delivery . I be tell that the hospital would be build , but not when . this be a clear step backwards . with the exception of the shadow Minister , we all know the situation in which the previous Government leave the country , but that be not a reason for economically and medically unsound decision now . I invite the Minister — or any Minister — to visit Basingstoke and North Hampshire hospital with I to understand the full financial and health implication of this decision for local people in North East Hampshire . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this have be an interesting and enlightening debate in some way . of all the subject on which the liberal Democrats might have bring a motion to this House , it be fascinating that we be talk about new hospital , as I think everybody would agree that the Labour party have invest both historically and under this Government in the national health service . in fact in the last Budget back in the autumn , £ 13 . 6 billion extra be allocate to NHS capital expenditure — a record amount . I know that Opposition Members have not particularly enjoy repeat reference to the coalition year . I do not think anybody in this House particularly enjoy remember the 2010 to 2015 period . the Conservatives certainly do not , and apparently the Liberal Democrats — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be barely get go but would be delighted to add an extra minute to my speech . it be amazing how short memory be on the labour side of the Chamber . the note from the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) which say " I be afraid there be no money " lead to decision that be apparently " ideological " , yet difficult decision now be make by the Labour Government be " mature and realistic " . it be amazing how short the memory be to make those two thing different . a lot of time and patience be be give to this Government for the delay to our hospital ; if their tone be more constructive , more patience would be give . if we want the tone to be constructive , we should be constructive about the fact that Labour be go to be build hospital , when no hospital be construct over the last five year . the reality be very clear : hospital do not simply appear ; we can not wish a hospital into existence . they require two thing : money and time . if we wish that there be more new hospital in this country , we should go back in time to 10 to 15 year ago . that would have be a fantastic time , when borrowing be much cheap than it be today , to have invest in hospital in all our community . unfortunately , the cancellation of the building school for the future project be basically the first act of the coalition Government , and there be a lack of investment in school and hospital . as the shadow spokesperson the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) have say today , we be clean up the mess that have be leave . that be the characterisation of the early 2010 , but it be very much more realistic today . the shadow spokesperson accuse the Government of a lack of imagination . well , there have be no lack of imagination here ; there have be magical thinking from the Liberal Democrats , who apparently believe that a taskforce will generate the billion of pound necessary to build hospital immediately . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be keen to make progress . I have repeatedly make this point to Conservative Members , who I do not feel be take the advice , but I will repeat it to the Liberal Democrats , who I equally do not think will do so . I have a huge amount of experience in opposition — a lot of we on the Government Benches have a lot more experience of it than we ever want . if we be really serious about what this country need , we can not just say that we want to have hospital now and expect they to be deliver if we simultaneously oppose revenue - generate measure in the Budget . I be afraid that what this motion be about , which have be reveal by many of the speech , be opportunism . we all want more investment in the NHS and that be what this Government be deliver . a great point be make by my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) when he say that it be not simply a matter of building , but a matter of people too . the good maternity facility in the country be in my constituency at the Queen Elizabeth maternity hospital , yet it be in a very old building . I want a new building for that maternity hospital . I want far well resource for the staff . I hope that it will come in time , but they be do a fantastic job with what we have get . we need to support those in the NHS rather than knock they down . Torbay hospital be very much a family affair for I . my wife have work there for more year than she would let I admit in this Chamber and my son be now a registrar there , so I think I know the hospital quite well until I be elect , and then the chief executive of Torbay and South Devon NHS foundation trust open the Pandora ' s box of pain and challenge that the hospital face . that make I really angry at how the previous Conservative Government fail to invest in the desperate need of our NHS , both in Torbay and across the country . so it be with hope in my heart that I come to this Chamber in July , hope that over the next few month Labour would be part of the solution . it be extremely sad and disappointing that Torbay feel as if it have be kick into the long grass . we know that this mean that there will be a failure in serve our community . we be expect outstanding staff to deliver service in poor condition , and Torbay be one of the most deprived community in the south - west , so we be let down some of the poor in our community . I want to share some of the content of this Pandora ' s box with the Chamber . on visit the hospital , there be a vista of hope , as there be scaffold around the main tower , but it be actually there to stop piece of the tower fall on NHS worker and visitor to the hospital , rather than because repair be under way . there be almost 700 sewage leak across the hospital , many impact on clinical area . whole ward have be shut down and have deep clean due to these sewage leak within Torbay hospital . only 6 % of the hospital be of A1 standard — that show starkly how poor the situation be . we face immediate pressure in Torbay . there be cut to out - of - hour coronary care service that could put those in Torbay and nearby constituency such as South Devon at risk of tissue death because there be not fast enough intervention for coronary condition . I represent that neighbouring constituency , and those in the largely rural area of South Devon will be severely threaten by the closure of out - of - hour coronary care in Torbay because somebody decide it would be a good idea to merge it with coronary care in Exeter , mean a potential increase of up to 45 minute in ambulance time for constituent from the south of my constituency to get to hospital . it be clearly go to put people in critical danger , and I be sure my hon . friend would agree that we desperately need the integrate care board to reconsider this poorly think - out decision . I strongly agree with my hon . friend that this wrong - head approach need urgent review . in Paignton , there be threat to the long - term delivery of ambulance service , which would add delay to community get support . perhaps the big threat be a financial one . down in Plymouth , £ 60 million of cut to health service budget be announce in the last few day . in Torbay , the hospital admit that it be look at £ 40 million of cut to NHS service . with £ 100 million of cut and the pressure on our service in south Devon , will the Minister tell we where that money have go and how she will intervene and support our service , because our hospital in Torbay be crumble ? in all sincerity , I thank the Lib Dems for bring the debate to the House . it be fair to say that Labour member be more than happy to discuss the NHS and the new hospital programme at any opportunity . I would again like to put on the record my thank to all the staff at Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow . I also pay tribute to the staff of the East of England ambulance service , who go back and forth to the hospital . I often visit the Princess Alexandra — I actually visit it today — and I see a workforce who work incredibly hard in difficult circumstance . they be a credit to not only my town of Harlow , but the NHS as a whole . as have be mention , the new Princess Alexandra hospital be one of 40 new hospital that only exist in the mind of the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson . when I be elect , I find a project without any funding , without a business plan and without even a site to build the new hospital on . the idea that it would be build by 2030 be an absolute pipedream . the current Princess Alexandra site be too small . the corridor and ward be too small , the A & E department be cram , and it be literally fall apart . we have see sewage leak into the ward and we see the roof of the ICU fall down . fortunately , nobody be injure . [ interruption . ] my speech be so riveting that I have wake Jennie up , so I apologise for that . I support the Government ' s amendment and pay tribute to the work already do by this Labour Government . wait time be down , and we finally have a realistic , achievable and fully fund timetable for a new Princess Alexandra hospital and at least £ 1 . 5 billion of investment in our town . in the meanwhile , of course the Princess Alexandra hospital will need funding . I have meet the chief exec a number of time and will meet he again next week to discuss the matter . I know that the Minister be already prepare herself for the lobbying she will get from I in the Tea Room next week . I would like to end my speech on something that there will be consensus on across the House . do the hon . Member agree that the new hospital programme be just one part of the jigsaw and that facility such as Bridlington district hospital and Alfred Bean hospital in Driffield in my constituency be much under - utilise resource ? we should be make the most of every NHS facility by bring community service back into those place . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . as a fellow Leeds United supporter who be celebrate this week , I take his intervention just to have the opportunity to mention that . I add that Harlow Town be also promote on Monday . the hon . Member make a valid point , and a hospital like Princess Alexandra be only part of the jigsaw . just over the road , there be the walk - in centre , which be sadly close in 2013 . idea such as care in the community , which mean that few people need to go to hospital , need to be look at . at Princess Alexandra hospital , one of the big issue be the number of people who need to go to the A & E department . we need to consider how we can avoid that and free up more medical staff to do other thing , so I absolutely take his point . I will end on another area of consensus . this be an issue that member who have hospital in their constituency will all be aware of : NHS nurse , doctor and staff suffer abuse at work . I would like to put on the record that NHS staff be absolute hero and that any abuse , be it physical or verbal , be totally unacceptable . I be sure that that be something we can all agree on across the House . the crisis in our NHS and the scandal of crumble hospital be a daily reality for my constituent and all community serve by the Epsom and St Helier university hospital NHS trust . we have allow our healthcare infrastructure to decay to a point where it hinder the delivery of care . these be not minor cosmetic issue ; many of our hospital building predate the NHS and be riddle with damp , mould and leak roof . yet we expect our dedicated doctor , nurse and support staff to deliver world - class treatment under those appalling condition . the consequence run far deep than peel paint : patient safety be jeopardised , staff morale be crush , and the basic functioning of our hospital be compromise . staff be stretch to their limit , struggle to provide the care that our community deserve in facility that be simply not fit for purpose . they deal with the consequence of decade of under - investment , where patch up fail infrastructure have become the norm — a short - sighted and ultimately more costly approach . the impact of the age estate on elective recovery have mean that since April 2024 , more than 600 operation have have to be cancel . the lift break down and can not be fix simply because they do not make the part any more . over the past five year , over £ 60 million have be spend on improve the Epsom and St Helier estate just to keep it operational . at St Helier , 46 % of repair be identify as high risk . the human cost of this crumble infrastructure be evident . patient be force to endure unacceptable waiting time , often in undignified condition . a & E waiting time at the Epsom and St Helier trust be among the bad in London , with over a third of patient wait more than 12 hour for a bed . my hon . friend mention corridor care . that be a recur theme in Members ' inboxe . a constituent recently tell I that her husband , who be immunosuppresse because of his chemotherapy , have to wait 54 hour in A & e at St Helier with sepsis , expose he to more infection on top of his exist condition . do she agree that without a proper rescue package for crumble hospital like St Helier , immunosuppresse patient will continue to be put at unnecessary risk ? I be sorry to hear that story . it be just one among a catalogue of incident that we hear of on a regular basis . this past winter , more than 2 , 000 patient wait over half a day just to be see . the delay not only cause distress and anxiety but can have serious and long - term consequence for patient outcome . the Epsom and St Helier university hospital NHS trust have work diligently , develop detailed plan for a new specialist emergency care hospital alongside the modernisation of Epsom and St Helier hospital . this state - of - the - art facility would be a beacon of hope , improve outcome for our sick patient and consolidate acute service in a way that strengthen staffing and keep care local . but that promise have be leave to wither . the Health Secretary ' s late announcement push the start of construction of the new specialist emergency care hospital to 2032 at the early , add to decade of false promise that have let my constituent down time and again . that be why , this Friday , I will be abseil 125 foot down St Helier hospital to raise fund for the Epsom and St Helier Hospitals charity and shine a spotlight on the urgent need for investment in our hospital . the fund raise will provide extra support to our hospital , over and above what the NHS can currently deliver . charity can only fill so many gap ; it can not substitute for the Government action that our hospital desperately require . the Government should reverse the delay to the new hospital programme and urgently deliver the new hospital that patient have long be promise . they must prioritise the construction of the specialist emergency care hospital and fund the long - overdue repair at St Helier . my constituent deserve nothing less than modern , safe and high - quality healthcare . I declare an interest : my daughter be an NHS nurse . I want she , her colleague and the patient they care for to have building that be safe , secure and suitable for their need . nowhere be it more apparent that our NHS be break than in our crumble hospital . my own mam recently spend two and a half month in hospital — the majority in one of our local community hospital , which I be sure be not alone in be hold together by the professionalism and care of its staff , rather than by the fabric of the building itself . Lord Darzi ' s report paint a stark picture of the crumble building in our health service and of a primary care estate in which 20 % of the building predate the founding of the health service . I be very much an advocate for preserve historic building , but I draw the line when it come to hospital that be not fit for purpose . that be why we need an NHS fit for the future , which start with building fit for its staff and the patient they care for . crumble old building , and indeed modern building with inadequate staff facility , lead to low morale and low productivity . that be why repair , rebuild and improve our healthcare estate be central to this Government ' s plan for change and to our health mission . we be deliver that plan . it include , as we have already hear , £ 13 . 6 billion in healthcare capital spending , over £ 4 billion in operational capital , and over £ 1 billion to tackle critical nhs maintenance . let we compare that with the record of the previous Government : under - investment in the estate , record low public satisfaction in the NHS , record high waiting list , doctor strike allow to drag on and on , and a new hospital programme year behind schedule with no money beyond March 2025 . this Government be commit to rebuild our NHS , and that be happen on the ground now in my Carlisle constituency , with funding for a new £ 12 million urgent treatment centre , which be approve in December and be on track to be open by the end of this year . that be the change that Carlisle need , it be the change our country need , and it be the change our Government be deliver . my local hospital , the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn , be one of the seven RAAC hospital . I have campaign for a new hospital since I be first elect in 2019 . the QEH have have the dubious honour of be the most prop hospital in the country . today , steel and timber support hold up the roof to keep the hospital safe . staff and patient should not have to put up with that . initially , QEH be not part of the new hospital programme , but through campaign in Parliament and strong local support , it be add to the scheme as a priority by the last Conservative Government — part of a fully fund scheme that be be fund in the same way as this programme : through future spending review . after the election , this Government ' s review of the new hospital programme cast doubt on our new hospital , but I be glad that , after pressure , RAAC scheme be remove from that review and restore as the priority they should be . that be warmly welcome by patient , staff and my constituent . the clock be tick , however , and the Government ' s decision to delay the timetable for a new hospital opening from 2030 to 2032 - 33 be unwelcome and , I would argue , unnecessary . it also mean spend money prop up the roof , waste million of pound that could be spend get on with the new scheme . the trust have well - develop plan and an experienced team in place . the Health Secretary have say that if we can go fast than the 2027 - 28 start date for construction , he will pursue that . when I go with the Minister to the hospital trust , she repeat that commitment , which I welcome . there be concern that the NHS England reorganisation could cause issue with approval , but the Health Secretary tell I in the House that we would use it to take an axe to the multi - layer approval process . I be not sure that he have swing it yet , but I hope he do , because the saving in business case , consultant cost , other cost and time be considerable . there have be much talk across the House of the need for action . I be at QEH last week with the chief executive . my ask be that the business case for the multi - storey car park be approve as rapidly as possible , so that work can start next year at the late . that be the key enable scheme to free up the exist car park so that we can get on and build the new QEH . the recent confirmation of the available funding be welcome and I thank the Minister — it will be a major investment in my constituency . let we now get on with the new QEH that the staff , patient and the community it serve across Norfolk , Cambridgeshire and Lincolnshire deserve . for year , my constituent in Banbury have live with the consequence of a health system that have be allow to fall apart bit by bit , service by service . our mental health service , especially for child and adolescent , be severely under - resource . family be wait far too long for help , even in the most serious case . our maternity unit in Banbury be downgrade under the Conservatives , so those have complex or emergency birth have to travel to Oxford or Warwick , with all the risk that that bring , especially when delay be cause by our inadequate transport infrastructure . there be no overnight surgery or day - care surgery available locally , and patient fall through the crack because of poorly co - ordinate service between Oxfordshire , Warwickshire and Northamptonshire . under the Conservatives , and with the support of the Liberal Democrats in coalition , money be divert away from vital health service into a disastrous and unnecessary reorganisation of our national health service . the result be what we be see now : fragmented care , overstretch service and community like Banbury be leave behind . my constituent be not go to be please by government make promise that they can not keep and when they have no realistic plan or fund to deliver they . multiple Government Members have make that point , but surely they can see that promise to build a hospital in a decade ' s time when they may not be in power be a meaningless promise . I suggest that our decade of national renewal will ensure that the hospital that we have promise will be deliver . I be confident about that because thing be change . the new hospital programme have be put back on a firm footing , with every project back by real funding and a realistic plan , which be equally important . crucially , this Government be not stop there . labour ' s 10 - year health plan be about improve how the whole system work with patient . that mean well co - ordination between GPs , hospital , mental health service and social care , and ensure that wherever people live , even if that be on the border between county , which be an issue close to the heart of people in my constituent , they be not pass from one part of the system to another without support . it also mean do more locally , with more care available close to home , so few people have to travel long distance to get basic treatment , and early invention , so that problem be pick up before they become emergency . we have already see progress . we have cut waiting list by over 200 , 000 , deliver over 3 million extra appointment , recruit more gps and invest £ 26 million in mental health crisis centre to alleviate the pressure on A & E service . some £ 2 billion will be spend on technology and digital improvement to increase productivity and ensure patient be see fast . we be start to turn thing around and do so in a way that put patient first , without make undeliverable , unrealistic promise that damage trust in politic and the power of politic under our democratic system . for too long , people in Banbury have be leave wonder if their NHS would be there when they need it . after 14 year , they can see that help be finally on the way . with this Labour Government , thing be change practically and with purpose . I start by declare an interest that will prejudice I in this debate : I be bear in Eastbourne district general hospital ; I have say farewell to cherish folk there ; and I have be bring back from the brink in the DGH myself . I express huge thank to the incredible staff in A & E , the resuscitation area , the acute medical unit and on Jevington ward who treat I and get I back into action last year . however , for year , our DGH service have be erode , with core service like consultant - lead maternity move to the Conquest hospital in Hastings , an unacceptable 20 mile away . I will keep fight for the return of consultant - lead maternity service at the DGH , just as I fight alongside local campaigner to reopen our midwifery unit for birth after month of closure . I fight stand on the shoulder of local campaigning giant for our NHS , such as Liz Walke . I have know she since I be seven , and I be proud to welcome she to the Gallery today alongside Rose Bunn . beyond service , our DGH building be cry out for help . our DGH boss have say : " the age and standard of current hospital building present challenge for the consistent delivery of safe , effective , responsive and efficient care . " the trust ' s backlog maintenance bill stand at £ 460 million . that be one of the large in the country , and it be why we be include in the new hospital programme in the first place . our town be therefore appal that the Conservatives put our hospital to the back of the queue when they be in office , and Eastbournians be far outraged that this government be keep we there in wave 4 . in fact , have be bear in that hospital 31 year ago , I will be nearly 50 by the time it be set to be complete . in the light of the mismatch between the size of our maintenance backlog and our place in the queue , my key ask of the Minister be whether the Government will review our wave 4 position in the programme as it stand . if they will not , what extra support will the Government provide to address the grow , nearly £ 500 million maintenance bill across our trust ? Eastbourne need answer and deserve action , and Eastbourne , together with campaigner such as Liz , will be listen very closely to her answer . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome this opposition day debate on hospital and the state of the NHS , which be on its knee after 14 year of mismanagement by the previous Government , but I find myself blink in the dapple light of a new reality . read the motion as draft , one could be forgive for think that an unchallenged Tory Government over the last 14 year alone be responsible for the chaos that we witness but , pinch myself to wake from the dream , I recall that the Liberal Democrats be part of that Government for five long year . they may want to forget about it , but we remember it . we remember the rose garden , where the blue Tories and the yellow Tories harmoniously , hand in hand , draw up their plan to devastate our health and social care public service through the austerity programme . we remember the bedroom tax , which be vote for multiple time by the Liberal Democrats . we remember the Lansley reform and the liberal Democrat spokespeople squirm in television interview as they try to justify the chaos into which they be about to plunge the NHS . under the previous Labour Government , we have the high satisfaction level and low waiting time , but what we inherit in July last year be an unmitigated disaster . the Tory - Lib Dem coalition tear up the last Labour Government ' s plan for a new hospital in my constituency as part of the austerity programme . the staff at that hospital do a remarkable job , and I put on record my gratitude to they , even when I be wander around dress as a giant bunny rabbit on Sunday . the Tories and the liberal Democrats — nobody else — be responsible for the 14 - year delay in get a new hospital in Watford . if they have not do what they do , we would have have a new hospital by now , but we do not . not a brick have be lay . they should hang their head in shame at this total betrayal of Watford ' s resident . the new hospital programme be not fund beyond March , and as the Prime Minister say in response to my question to he a few week ago , the hospital exist only in the imagination of Boris Johnson . I welcome this motion recognise the devastating state of the NHS , but let we be acutely aware that responsibility for that lie with the Liberal Democrats , who table this motion , and with the Conservatives in the previous Government . it be all very well to want to magic a hospital out of thin air , but it will be this Labour Government who finance and deliver it . picture the hon . member in a rabbit outfit have wake we all up . I will focus my speech specifically on Hinchingbrooke hospital , and highlight some key issue that will impact delivery of our new hospital in Huntingdon . during the general election campaign , I pledge to fight for the resource to rebuild Hinchingbrooke , and I will continue to push this Labour Government to ensure that they follow through on the programme they commit to deliver . in May 2023 , the then Health Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , announce that Hinchingbrooke be part of the Government ' s new hospital programme . since that time , I have be concern that this Government be not act with enough haste to address the issue face at Hinchingbrooke . there have be a lack of clarity , particularly regard the ongoing traffic issue around Hinchingbrooke and the lack of a firm commitment to upgrade the road network as part of the project , which have cause concern across my constituency . while I welcome the fact that Hinchingbrooke be rightly in wave 1 of the programme , we need clarity on the timeframe . although this government be aware of the RAAC issue , they have still not give a detailed timeframe as to when we will get our hospital build ; there be a vague start date , but no completion date . crucially , in September 2024 , the Minister for Secondary Care confirm in a write answer to I that the detailed structural assessment of Hinchingbrooke hospital in 2022 " estimate that the remain life of the RAAC panel " extend to " approximately 2030 " , even after " the installation of fail - safe steelwork . " in February , she state that this summer , the Government will publish a report " assess the clinical and operational impact of the running of the exist hospital beyond the estimate life of the current hospital site " . with the delay already cause by road access and grid access , and the lack of clarity about a start date or a completion date , what assurance can the Minister give that my constituent will not find themselves in a condemn hospital building after 2030 , with the dhsc simply own the risk that it will collapse ? if the new hospital be to be complete by 2030 , we need plan , action , and focus on make sure that any change be usable , safe and fit for purpose , with no more delay . in short , the follow issue must be address in order for Hinchingbrooke to be deliver : the programme business case for the NHP must receive ministerial approval ; a hospital 2 . 0 - compliant design must be approve and deliver ; a capital envelope of at least £ 900 million and a realistic contingency must be allocate ; and mobilisation of the programme must be quick . it be clear that the 2030 target might now be unreachable , but mobilisation by spring 2026 seem realistic , and I will push the Government and all stakeholder to work towards that target . there also need to be further work between Hinchingbrooke and the nhp to develop a strategic outline case , and it be crucial that that case be then approve as soon as possible in order to complete the new hospital by as close to 2030 as possible . we also need grid access that be fit for purpose , as the current grid access will not be sufficient for Hinchingbrooke . currently , the gap between sufficient grid space be approve and meet that which be require will be a year — that be clearly not appropriate . there be issue regard a vital new access road to alleviate traffic . those issue be cause by land own jointly by Cambridgeshire constabulary and National Highways . the Government must get all stakeholder around the table to reach a solution , give that they be public body . to conclude , I reaffirm that I will do all I can to work with the Government , the NHS and other to make sure that my constituent get the new hospital they so desperately need . the very first thing I do when I come to this place be write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care — along with my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) — about the state of Stepping Hill hospital . it be consistently the big issue raise with I by patient and staff , many of whom be my constituent , and there be few way to see more clearly how the last government let down my constituent than by consider the state of the building at Stepping Hill hospital . a number of building have have to be close because they be deem unsafe , place more pressure on staff and service . the press report that the repair backlog at Stepping Hill exceed £ 130 million , with million need to eradicate the most high - risk problem . that sound abstract — that amount of money be difficult to get your head around — so what do it mean to staff and patient ? it mean that my constituent write to I about have experience major health issue , like cardiac arrest , and have be force to wait in overcrowded area without seating because there be not the space available . it mean hospital corridor flooding and medic have to wade through the water to get to their patient . on one occasion , it mean a constituent writing to I about what should have be the utter delight of have a baby deliver safely into the world — but 30 minute before the baby arrive , the light fit in the delivery suite fall down in the middle of active labour . Stepping Hill see about half a million patient each year . when I ask my constituent about their experience of Stepping Hill , many tell I that they be worried about the building , but so many of they praise the phenomenal staff . I will share a few of those remark with the House . Chris say that the staff could not have be kind or more efficient . Alan say : " all staff at Stepping Hill , from top to bottom , be absolutely brilliant " . Brenda say that the staff remain dedicated despite the state of the building . Amanda say , " without Stepping Hill and the wonderful doctor and nurse there , my son would not be here today " , and Sheila say : " staff be run ragged but be amazing . " the previous Government fail to provide the funding that Stepping Hill need , and despite the huge repair bill , it be leave out of the new hospital programme . the legacy of that decision and of the fail Conservative Government hang over my constituent , who deserve well . that Government break their promise to my constituent , and I will continue to work with this and any future Government to get Stepping Hill what it need . in part , that involve a new site in Stockport town centre . I be work closely with Stockport council and the trust to push for that . it could act as a diagnostic centre and an out - patient centre , and it be surely part of a strong , long - term solution to ensure that patient need be meet and my constituent get what they need . the health of our nation be directly link to the wealth of our nation and my constituent , whether patient or staff , be look for the Government to have their back , to fund the repair in Stepping Hill and to deliver the new additional site in the town centre . I be go to change the tone of the debate a little bit from the hon . member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) and welcome the Minister ' s comment about a strategy for hospital building that be base in reality and not on a fantasy programme that have no funding behind it . it be also good to hear that capital funding will be ringfence . when Labour come into office , it promise to end sticking - plaster politic , but that seem to be exactly what it be offer to Torbay hospital : a small stick plaster to hold together a gape wound . Torbay hospital serve a critical role for my largely rural constituency of South Devon and face immense pressure every single day . nearly all of the hospital estate be currently unfit for purpose , yet under the Government ' s timeline , construction on a rebuild be not due to begin until 2032 . that mean seven more year of staff work in outdated , inadequate condition and patient receive care in a facility that no long meet the basic standard expect of a modern health service . the case for urgent and sustained investment could not be clear . the total cost of eradicate the maintenance backlog at Torbay hospital now stand at £ 53 . 6 million — small beer compare with some colleague ' constituency . of that , £ 4 . 6 million be need to address high - risk issue , which be those , in the NHS ' s own term , that pose a direct threat to the safety of patient or the day - to - day functioning of the hospital . nearly £ 1 in every £ 10 need for repair be to fix problem that be consider an urgent threat to health and safety . that be simply unacceptable in any modern healthcare system . last year , the ear , nose and throat department be force to cancel a full week of out - patient care after a sewage leak . the main tower of the hospital be literally be hold together by scaffold , which cost £ 1 million a week . operate theatre lack adequate temperature control , and the pathology department , which play a critical role in cancer diagnosis and other urgent care , be operate out of a rotting portacabin with hole in the wall . that temporary accommodation have be in place for more than 40 year . this hospital be operate at 98 % capacity — far above safe level . it be run at full tilt every day under condition that make effective , safe care more and more difficult to provide . I have to give a huge shout - out to the incredible staff at Torbay hospital who keep that place go . the situation be not sustainable and nor should it be acceptable . the current Government ' s decision to delay urgent repair be not just a poor decision , but a false economy . we be spend so much money shore up a hospital , when fix it would cost less than hold it together with scaffold . keep hospital such as Torbay go with temporary fix and emergency maintenance be far more expensive in the long term than invest in the proper infrastructure now . we need the Government to find innovative way to finance critical repair . patient and staff in Torbay and across the country deserve well than another decade of waiting . I be proud to declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital . the Royal Berks be an incredibly important place for I . I have be treat there many time , friend and family work there , and my constituent rely on the dedication of its hard - work staff . the way that this important community asset be treat by the previous Conservative Government be a scandal . they have leave a record of broken promise and a building that in many place be literally crumble . look at the conservative legacy , before the 2024 general election , they introduce a seven - year delay to the construction of the new hospital in 2023 . that be a seven - year delay for something that be never fund in the first place . the Conservatives ' dithering and delay have result in £ 7 million be waste at the Royal Berkshire hospital on survey , investigation and the development of a hospital programme that be never go to go anywhere , and the Conservatives know that all the time . their behaviour over the last five year have be shameful , and they have deceive my constituent . my hon . friend the Member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) have highlight many of the issue at the Royal Berkshire , so I will not repeat his point , but there be a maintenance backlog amount to £ 102 million , and staff have recently tell I that an additional £ 300 million be need for maintenance . will the Minister confirm that there will be a proper maintenance programme for the next 20 year ? I have to thank she for her guarantee that when the Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust require fund to purchase land for the new site , her Department will provide those fund . I would be grateful if she could confirm that that position have not change , and also that the plan cut and saving at the trust to balance its budget will have no impact on its ability to deliver vital maintenance at the hospital site . I call Danny Chambers to wind up the debate for the Liberal Democrats . it seem that member on both side of the House have be experience similar problem in the hospital that they represent . year of under - investment have leave many hospital with leak roof , for instance . my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) speak of sewage in clinical area — I think that sewage be the subject of the next debate ; it be outrageous that we should be discuss its presence in our hospital — and my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) tell we about a room full of incubator which have to be remove because the ceiling be at risk of collapse . it be crazy that operate theatre and hospital room be unused not because of a lack of staff , but because they be not safe enough for people to work in . like many other member , I regularly meet hospital leader and manager — in my case , at our local hospital in Winchester — to discuss the problem that they be experience . despite the heroic effort of the staff at the Royal Hampshire County hospital , they be face a set of issue similar to those that have be raise time and again this afternoon , include , again , leak roof over treatment area . like the hospital mention by my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , our have old , outdated lift that fail , make it difficult to transport patient from ward to the operating theatre . it have no back - up power generator , so there be a risk to patient ' safety during power cut . my hon . friend have mention faulty building and roof . in Musgrove Park hospital in Taunton , staff be faint in temperature of 30 ° C in temporary building where there be no cool machinery , while mum be try to give birth in the same ward . that be completely unacceptable . we need interim funding if the hospital — which be mention early today by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) — be to survive until 2033 , when the promise funding be mean to arrive . it be indeed unacceptable , in respect of patient ' safety but also health and safety at work , because the health of the staff be be put at risk as well . these be not minor inconvenience ; they be daily threat to patient ' care and they cost we dear , so why be we not fix they ? failure on the part of the last Government be no excuse for continue delay , and say " we can not afford it " when the cost of inaction be high be simply nonsensical . the long we wait , the more it will cost the taxpayer . much have be say about trust in politic , and we will not forget what happen in our part of Hampshire when conservative stand on election manifesto promise to deliver a new hospital for which they never have any fund . there be no funding secure and no shovel - ready plan , but they campaign on the issue repeatedly , hope that the voter would not find out until it be too late . other Members have point out that GP surgery be be particularly neglect . the Budget allocate fund to cover additional upgrade for just 200 GP surgery out of a total of 6 , 000 . with the Government ' s job tax hit GPs , it be become hard for those practice to fund their own improvement . however , I be pleased that the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) mention the importance of primary care and mental health . this be , of course , a debate on hospital and hospital infrastructure , but I know there be cross - party agreement on the fact that keep people healthy in the community — whether that involve investment in primary care , mental health or public health service — be much more cost - effective for taxpayer as well as be well for patient . we really welcome the Minister ' s warm word on social care . we have a social care roundtable just yesterday , and we hear that every pound spend on social care save the NHS £ 3 . we urge the Government to hold cross - party talk as soon as possible , because for every year that we delay get a plan for social care , people be languish in hospital on delay discharge which be cost we a huge amount of money . we have to end the vicious cycle of false economy and fortune be spend on paper over the crack . the total repair backlog at the delayed new hospital site could reach an estimate £ 5 . 7 billion by the time construction start . be the Government really of the view that keep hospital on life support be a good use of taxpayer ' money ? repair and replace crumble NHS building be not just about treat more patient ; it be about revive and boost our economy . here be the truth : we will not grow our economy unless we reinvest in the service that support it . let we change course . we urge the Government to reverse the long delay in the new hospital programme , because many will not be open until the 2040s on the current timeline , and those hospital have to be keep function until then ; to set out a 10 - year investment plan to fix hospital and GP surgery ; to urgently release fund that have already be commit , to start construction straightaway ; and to publish a plan to recruit and retain a skilled workforce to carry out the work efficiently . that be what invest to save look like . it mean improve care , lower long - term cost and build a strong , healthy economy . the Conservatives choose to cut investment , which lead to high cost . our plan be to increase investment now so that we can lower cost in the future . we urge the Government not simply to patch over the damage do to our NHS . as the liberal politician William Beveridge , who be a visionary behind the formation of the NHS , say : " a revolutionary moment … be a time for revolution , not for patch . " let we be bold , and let we invest now . it will be well for the taxpayer , it will be well for patient , and it will boost our economy . it really be a pleasure to close this debate on behalf of the Government . I think there have be 33 contribution from hon . member from across the House . nowhere be it more apparent that the NHS be break than in our crumble hospital . over 14 year , the NHS be starve of capital and the capital budget be repeatedly raid to plug the hole in day - to - day spending . Lord Darzi ' s investigation into the NHS in England make it clear that we have crumble building and it , mental health patient share shower in victorian - era cell infest with vermin , and part of the NHS operating in decrepit portacabin . some 20 % of the primary care estate predate the founding of the health service in 1948 . I thank the Liberal Democrats for bring forward this debate . we broadly agree on the disgrace that the backlog of repair , the decade - long cannibalisation of capital budget and the unfunded fantasy of the new hospital programme have become . where we disagree be on the cause and the solution . as we have hear today , the Liberal Democrats be completely silent on the part they play as member of the coalition Government . they be active and enthusiastic partner in the decision to impose austerity , and our NHS be starve of funding on their watch . the practice of raid capital budget to keep thing afloat start in 2014 , on their watch . the disastrous top - down NHS reorganisation , which waste billion of pound and contribute to record - high waiting list , happen on their watch . as for the solution , the liberal Democrats be silent on how they would pay for and accelerate the new hospital programme . they be play the same cynical game that we see from the conservative party : they be dangle the prospect of a new hospital while be unable to explain where the funding would come from or how the construction industry could deliver it within the timeframe . it be indeed opportunism , as my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) say . we all remember the Rose Garden , as my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) say . the Liberal Democrats oppose the autumn 2024 Budget , which deliver record investment in our NHS . in sharp contrast , this Government be prepared to take the decision need to back up our promise with the funding need to deliver they , and we be determined to rebuild confidence and trust in politic by promise only what we can deliver . I have meet many hon . member in person and hear they in the Chamber today , and I know other be not here who would have want to contribute . as the Minister , let I say plainly that I agree with everyone ' s anger . I share that anger because , when I tour hospital up and down the country — I do so recently in Doncaster and in Oxfordshire , where I visit the Warneford hospital — I often see equipment and infrastructure that be procure 20 year ago when I be work for the NHS in Bristol . see these physical reminder of the past when I tour hospital fill I with a mixture of pride and shame . I feel pride because I be part of a generation of leader who deliver hospital fit for patient in the big hospital programme in NHS history deliver under the last Labour Government , and I feel shame because our legacy be squander and patient have pay the price . we understand the legacy , and Lord Darzi be very clear that the task for we be to take action . that be why the Chancellor take the necessary decision in her Budget to meet this challenge , and why we have put the programme on a firm financial footing . as my hon . friend the Minister for Care say , we be not just write the wrong ; we be take pressure off hospital , shift the focus of our NHS from hospital to community , recruit over 1 , 500 more gps to take the pressure off A & E and harness the power of AI to help people who depend on care to stay at home . that point be well make by my hon . friend the Members for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) . as he make I sponsor he , may I wish my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley good luck in the marathon this weekend ? the challenge before we be immense , but every member of this Government be up for the fight . member make a number of point , and I will try to get through they in the time available . I could not agree more with those who make the point that we have to break out of the vicious cycle of false economy . this Government be elect on a manifesto to end short - termism , easy answer and sticking - plaster politic . when we come into government we be saddle with a bill of almost £ 14 billion in backlog maintenance . my right hon . friend the Chancellor have give we the funding this year to back NHS system with over £ 4 billion of operational capital . a lifesave cash injection of £ 750 million for target estate safety funding be a vital first step towards fix our crumble estate . that be crucial not only for patient , but for staff morale , as my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) say . there be also £ 440 million to tackle crumble RAAC concrete , keep patient and their family safe . we be open new mental health facility , with more in construction , and that state - of - the - art provision will give the good possible care outcome . furthermore , I assure Members that , unlike the previous Government , we will never raid capital budget to plug day - to - day spending , and the Treasury have update its fiscal rule to make that impossible . my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) say that big promise with no plan be what get we into this mess , and that be echo by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , who talk about the false hope and the waste of the past . my hon . friend the Member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) echo that point and reiterate the point about trust , which be almost share by the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) . member have call on the Government to reverse course and commit to a timeline that be unfunded , unrealistic and undeliverable . that have be recognise by a National Audit Office report , which state that " some scheme publicly promise in 2020 now face substantial delay and will not be complete by 2030 … with implication for patient and clinician . " the delivery of these hospital exist only as a figment of Boris Johnson ' s imagination and this Government be do the hard yard of put the new hospital programme back on track . the NHP previously receive a red rating from the Infrastructure and Projects Authority , now know as the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority . its late review , which it carry out in January , rate the nhp as amber . that reflect the measure that we take to put the programme on a firm footing , as my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) rightly say . some member , include the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , have ask we to publish the individual score of each scheme follow the outcome of the review , but may I just take issue with the hon . Lady ' s use of the word " shady " ? the Secretary of State and the Department will continue to co - operate with her Committee , but to be clear , as part of our analysis , scheme be prioritise into upper , middle and low third , which give a delivery schedule for the programme to align with the funding envelope , and there be no final individual score for each scheme . there be no formal delineation among scheme in wave 2 , and scheme remain schedule to start construction as outline in our plan for implementation . I briefly say to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) that it be a pleasure to meet Councillors McCabe and Garrod from her constituency and to understand their passion about the loss of resource . that be echo in many low - income area , and we have to reverse that loss of resource as we go forward with our 10 - year plan . we be take a systematic approach to build the next generation of hospital , know as Hospital 2 . 0 , allow trust to benefit from economy of scale , provide excellent patient care and facility , and ensure that staff be support with technology for decent working environment . it contribute to our growth mission , put more money in people ' s pocket and support our supply chain . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) , we do abide by the Hospital 2 . 0 scheme . it be a systematic and centralised approach that will save taxpayer money , while drive innovation and lay the foundation for a new relationship between Government and industry . I be disappointed if it be official liberal Democrat policy to oppose that approach . I know the clock be against I but I want to end by say that I completely understand why colleague be so concerned about the plan , when previous government have so badly let they and their constituent down . I also hear the point make by the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) about Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland benefit from the Barnett consequential for revenue and capital . it be devolve and it can look at alternative mean . the Department will continue to work with all devolve administration across all issue , but they do have particular problem . staff and patient deserve well , so I want to offer they some reassurance about our record since July . we promise to sit down with resident doctor and end the damaging strike action — promise make , promise keep . in October , we say we would recruit more gps by April and we recruit more than we say — promise make , promise keep . we promise 2 million extra appointment in our manifesto and we smash that target seven month early — promise make , promise keep . last month , over 80 % of patient in England refer for cancer have it rule out or diagnose within 28 day , the first time that target have be meet for year , and waiting list be now consistently fall . we have grip this critical issue since July , from day one with the review . the Secretary of State and I meet mps and the NHP team before the completion of the review . I meet all colleague the day after the announcement in January and I have have individual meeting . I will keep my promise to visit , when the diary allow . I be really look forward to North Devon . I be also visit Hillingdon , where I grow up , with my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , and possibly visit some old haunt . I have commit to visit Basingstoke , with my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) . we will progress at pace on RAAC and wave 1 . I be committed to hold more meeting with wave 2 and wave 3 mps in the come week and month to keep colleague abreast of update and to provide they with the opportunity to ask question directly of the team . that be how I will work with colleague across the House to make sure the programme happen . finally , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) talk about her experience of the PFI scheme she work under and the nonsense she have to deal with . her government could have change that at any point . my experience of a PFI scheme in Bristol be wake up about a year ago after I have have my melanoma remove , in an almost brand new hospital with fantastic facility in a single , individual ward with my husband beside I . maybe it be the drug that make I feel a little bit bleary - eyed , but what I think then be how proud I be to have be part of the development team , as part of the primary care trust board , bring forward a fantastic hospital for north Bristol that serve patient so well . that would never have happen under another Administration . we rebuild the hospital under the previous Labour Government . I be proud of that record . we do it before ; we be go to do it again . that be what a Labour Government do . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Brian Mathew James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Charlie Maynard will Forster Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Steve Race Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 77 , Noes 307 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House regret the appalling state of repair of NHS hospital across the country ; note that the NHS maintenance backlog rise to £ 13 . 8 billion in 2023 - 24 ; far note the sustained pattern of cannibalise NHS capital budget to keep day - to - day service run ; condemn the previous Government ' s record of starve repair budget and explode maintenance backlog , which make sewage leak , crack wall , crumble ceiling and sink floor commonplace ; far condemn the previous Government for launch the New Hospitals Programme with no realistic plan to fund or deliver it ; also note that the Chancellor have announce new fiscal rule to ensure capital budget can no long be cannibalise , with transfer from capital to resource budget not permit ; recognise that the previous Government leave a New Hospital Programme which be unfunded , unrealistic and undeliverable ; welcome that the Government have take action to review that Programme and have publish the New Hospital Programme Plan for Implementation , to put the Programme on a sustainable footing ; support the Government ' s investment in the Plan , which will increase to up to £ 15 billion over each consecutive five - year wave , average around £ 3 billion a year from 2030 ; and far support the work be do to bring forward construction of the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete replacement scheme wherever possible , to ensure that patient and staff safety be prioritise . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , could you advise I whether it be in order that the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who open the debate for the Conservatives , be not in her place for the close of the debate ? I think that be discourteous to the House , and I would like your advice on how we rectify this matter . the point of order be most definitely on the record . it be a point of courtesy to be here for the close of a debate if you be here for the opening . no doubt , opposition Front Benchers will make that very clear to the Member . sewage I inform the House that the Speaker have select amendment ( a ) table in the name of the Prime Minister . I beg to move , that this House regret the persistent scandal of raw sewage be dump by water company into river , lake and coastal area ; note with deep concern that just 14 % of river and lake in England be in good ecological health ; condemn the previous Government for let water company boss get away with the scandal while pay themselves million of pound in bonus ; far note the potential benefit of Blue Flag status in improve responsibility and accountability from water company , through compliance check and stringent environmental standard ; and call on the Government to take urgent action to end the sewage scandal , include the introduction of a new Blue Flag status for river and chalk stream , to give they great protection against sewage dumping and ensure the public know when river be clean and safe . it be an honour to open this debate . for I , serve the people of Westmoreland also mean defend its natural beauty and purity , which be important to our national heritage , farming industry and tourism and hospitality economy . our proposal aim to highlight the scandal of the pollution of our waterway and call for practical solution that will make a difference . the Government ' s recent Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 be a step in the right direction after the failure of the last Conservative Government to take meaningful action , yet it be surely also a miss opportunity to bring in the radical transformation of regulation and ownership that be essential if we be to clean up our waterway and clean up the water industry as a whole . Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review give we hope that a second , more ambitious water Bill might be come , but there be no guarantee of that , so our job as the constructive Opposition in this place be to hold the Government to account and urge they to make the big change that Britain vote for last July . the need for radical action be make all the more clear recently when the figure for sewage spill in 2024 be release . those figure be horrific : a 106 % increase in the duration of spill in our lake , river and sea in just two short year . over Easter in Torbay , we have five sewage spill accord to the Surfers Against Sewage app . do my hon . friend agree that it be extremely disappointing to say the least that , rather than colleague just get their cossie and towel to go swim at their favourite swimming spot , they must now also check the sewage leak app ? it be outrageous . I agree with my hon . friend , who make a really good point about his own community . that be what we be try to address today by bring practical solution to prevent this outrage . that 106 % increase in the duration of sewage spill in just two year have be explain away on the record by water industry boss as the consequence of climate change , because it rain more than it use to . yes , that be absolutely true , but it do not rain 106 % more in 2024 than it do in 2022 — not even in the Lake district . the reality be that the failure of water company to invest in their infrastructure and the failure of Ofwat to force they to do so mean that the scandal be set to continue despite the Government ' s new legislation . there be 754 spill in my constituency last year alone . we do not want to see those number anywhere , but in a constituency that do not have a major waterway , that be absurdly high . do my hon . friend agree that if we want to start genuinely hold these water company to account , a great place to start would be replace Ofwat ? my hon . friend anticipate where I be go next , but yes , it take some do to have such figure in a constituency lack in water — certainly lack in it compare to my neck of the wood . I confess that I be do this job not just because my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) ask I ; I would volunteer for all this stuff , because for I and my community water be seriously personal . we be home to much of the English Lake district — windermere , Ullswater , Coniston water , Grasmere , rydal water and many more — and to a beautiful stretch of Morecambe bay and some of the most ecologically significant river in the UK , include the Kent , the Eden and the Leven . yet the datum for 2024 show that we be the third hard hit constituency in England when it come to the duration of sewage spill , with 55 , 000 - plus hour of spill and 5 , 500 individual incident . the catchment of the River Eden go through Appleby , Kirkby Stephen and many beautiful village see over 7 , 000 hour of spill on 705 occasion . the River Kent catchment see 5 , 300 hour of spill on 455 occasion . windermere alone have 38 spill over 123 hour . the " constructive Opposition " spokesperson — I do not know what that make the Conservatives — be make a powerful speech . I look forward to have an opportunity to visit his constituency , because it sound beautiful . do he agree that it be disgraceful that while this sewage be be leak , the chief executive officer of water company be still pay themselves exorbitant bonus ? the hon . Member would , of course , be enormously welcome to visit the lake and the dale . he make a key point , which I will seek to address , about the injustice of people be pay huge bonus for failure at the top of these organisation . that be also money leave the system and the industry that could have be invest in put some of this right . I have talk about my patch , but colleague across the House , from every party and from every corner of the United Kingdom , will have see the datum for their community too , and they should rightly be outraged . rise — I be sure my hon . friend be outraged . my hon . friend talk , quite correctly , about a beautiful part of England . I , too , represent a very beautiful part of the world . here be an unbelievable fact for he — I have write it on my hand : in 2023 , there be no few than 1 , 439 sewage spill in the highland . what a disgrace that none of the scottish nationalist , the govern party of Scotland , be here today . my hon . friend make an important observation from a constituency vast and rural — my constituency be the second large in England , but it be bijou and compact compare with his . he make a good point about the Administration in Scotland . as the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) allude to , sewage spill be not the only thing that have increase ; so too have the money leak out of the system . water company boss receive a total combine pay last year of £ 20 million and more , and the water company responsible for these failure pay out £ 1 . 2 billion in dividend . surfer Against Sewage , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , have lead the way on this issue for many year , since before many other be even talk about it . talk about dividend , do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be completely wrong that ten of million , if not hundred of million , also leak out on high interest on the internal shareholder loan of those who own the water company ? I will talk later about why privatisation of the water industry be such a colossal mistake , and that be one of the consequence — a predictable consequence . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point . recent research by Surfers Against Sewage cover all the water company , but I be bind to pick out United Utilities as an example . United Utilities pay out £ 320 million to investor last year , while its customer — my constituent — will pay 32 % more in bill . by the way , 11 % of every one of my constituent ' water bill be go to service that company ' s debt — debt rack up in part by borrow money in order to give huge , undeserved payday to their investor . in South Devon last year , we have an astonishing 49 , 904 hour of sewage leak , or 5 . 69 year - worth of sewage pour into the glorious Dart and Avon and into the sea around South Devon . meanwhile , my constituent write to I about bill that have go up by as much as 50 % . do my hon . friend agree that it be an outrage that the privatised water company be able to carry on increase bill , increase dividend to shareholder and pay multimillion - pound salary to ceo while this obscenity of sewage pour into our river , sea and lake continue ? my hon . Friend represent an utterly beautiful part of the country and she fight for it admirably ; her constituent be lucky to have she . she make an important point . I mention that 11 % of the bill pay by my constituent in the north - west of England go to service United Utilities ' debt , but that be one of the low level . for many other colleague on both side of the House , their local water company will be use up to 30 % of the bill charge just to service their debt . the sewage scandal be an environmental scandal , but it be also a financial one — an affront to justice and fairness , as well as to our ecology . it be also a health scandal . what water company be do by allow sewage to seep into our coastal water and river mean that many people who enjoy that environment for swimming and so on fall ill , and many of they lose day at work . as well as cover the cost to the taxpayer of clean up the environment , the water company should really be make a contribution to the Exchequer to cover sick pay and the cost to the NHS . my hon . friend make an important point on behalf of his coastal and island community in the far south - west . they be also very lucky to have he speak up for they . the Windrush Against Sewage Pollution and Save Windermere campaign work together on a recent report show that the use of fund for capital project by water company around the country be at well wasteful and negligent and at worst , dare I say it , deeply suspect . they focus on the proposal by , again , United Utilities to spend almost £ 13 million of local bill payer ' money on an extension to a sewage outfall pipe into Windermere . WASP find this to be " excessive " and say it seem unreasonable that 43 three - bedroom house could be build for the price of put a mere 150 - metre sewage pipe into a lake . the report shine a light on what WASP consider to be inflate capital spending cost at water company around the country , and it rightly ask what Ofwat be do by sign this stuff off — sign off huge bill increase when water company be not spend that money wisely . my hon . friend have outline the outrage and the scandal of sewage leak into our river , lake and sea . it be also the case that sewage be spill out on to our street , and groundwater infiltration cause much of the problem . Thames Water in my area have so far refuse to do anything about " poo Corner " in the parish of Berrick Salome . do my hon . friend agree that this be another issue we need to address ? until now , I always think " the House at Pooh Corner " be a good thing ; obviously that would not be so in this case . I have see the same thing in my own patch . in the village of Burneside we be finally , after 20 year of campaigning , get some additional new sewage infrastructure , which will hopefully prevent poop literally come up on to the pavement in light rainfall where the local kid catch the bus to go into Kendal to school , which be an absolute outrage . my hon . friend be right to campaign , as he do very well , for his community on this issue . we should already know not to take water company at their word , I be afraid , give their shoddy record on datum transparency . for example , the chief executive of United Utilities , Louise Beardmore , among other admit at the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee not very long ago that they have refuse to release spill datum until WASP appeal to the Information Commissioner . furthermore , in 2022 United Utilities be list as the good perform water company in England , for which it be allow to raise its bill as a reward . however , the BBC report whistleblower at the Environment Agency claim that United Utilities have be wrongly downgrade dozen of pollution incident . so we can surely be forgive for be a little cynical when those water company propose huge sum for project like the one I have just mention . that be why our key criticism of the Government ' s new water Act be not of anything that be in that legislation , but of what be miss from it . the situation whereby water company can be responsible for record level of sewage pollution and be show to make bad use of bill payer ' money , with inflated capital cost and inflated dividend , could not happen if they be regulate properly , but they be not . in my constituency in March , phosphate level in the River Mole surge by 50 % and nitrate double . this be pollution that can cause algal bloom and suffocate wildlife . do my hon . friend agree that we urgently need a clean water authority with real enforcement power to protect our river , before it be simply too late ? I completely agree , and my hon . friend be absolutely right to make that point , particularly give the experience she have in her constituency . she rightly fight very forcefully for her community and to clean up her waterway . she will have see , like all of we , that the principal problem be a failure of regulation . there have to be an answer to that and the liberal Democrat proposal , which I will come to in a moment , would certainly make it more likely that this would be deal with effectively — and if it solve the problem , that would be great . the water industry regulatory framework be fragment and weak . the regulator lack the resource , the power and the culture , it would appear , to make a serious difference . that be why the Liberal Democrats propose a new clean water authority so that water company stop run ring around multiple regulator and begin to act in the interest of the british people and of the waterway that we love . I represent a very beautiful part of the Yorkshire dale , in Wharfedale , and Yorkshire Water have be responsible for hundred of thousand of hour of sewage spill into the river . it be fine £ 47 million by Ofwat for its poor performance in 2023 , only for that to be repeat in 2024 . will the hon . Gentleman welcome the action that the Government have already take through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 — which be more than the previous Government ever do to tackle this disgusting problem — and also recognise that we do see the problem with regulation and the fact that we need strong regulation of the water industry to protect the environment and public health , and that be the role of the cunliffe review ? I absolutely welcome the Act , as I say at the beginning of the debate . it be a step in the right direction ; I just do not think that it be enough , and the hon . Lady make the case as to why it be not enough . her water company , Yorkshire Water , be one of four water company that between they owe Ofwat £ 164 million in fine because of their failure , and Ofwat have so far claim zero — none of that . there seem to be an awareness among water company that Ofwat be not a regulator to be fear and therefore not one to be respond to . that be among the reason why we need a new , much more powerful regulator that have the power , and use it , to refuse to sign off on spending plan that prioritise the investor over the consumer and the environment . I thank the hon . Gentleman and his party for bring the motion . it be important that we improve the quality of our river and sea . do he share my concern that in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act the Government refuse to allow local area to retain the money fine from water company to improve the environment in that area ? be they able to do that , that would lead to a real improvement in the quality of our environment . I agree , and the hon . Member can check the record and see we vote with the Conservatives in Committee . he make a good point : the community most damage by pollution should be the one that receive investment from the fine — if , indeed , Ofwat ever bother to collect they . alongside the need for regulatory reform , we propose a radical transformation of the ownership model . privatisation of the water industry have be an expensive failure — 35 year of huge debt and payout to investor , 35 year of inadequate investment in our infrastructure . the conservative promise of Britain become a shareowning democracy have turn into the predictable nightmare reality of british public utility own by billionaire and foreign power — what an absolute disgrace . the end result be the river , lake and sea in which we swim , fish , canoe , sail , work and play polluted by an industry now own by those who take but would not give . water company need new model of ownership , transition to public benefit company that be focus on environmental good , not profiteer , with fund from customer ’ bill pump back into upgrading and repair infrastructure , not drain away in dividend . we welcome the independent water commission chair by Sir Jon Cunliffe , though we remain impatient give the time it will take to publish the commission ' s finding , the further period of time it may take for the Government to do anything about they , follow by a legislative process and implementation period — we will be at the end of the Parliament before we know it . to be fair , with the commission the Government provide themselves with a second chance to bring in the ambitious change that be need , and we urge they not to miss this chance . minister will remember with deep joy the 44 amendment that the Liberal Democrats propose to the water Bill . in our submission to Sir Jon , I have seek to turn those amendment into a single set of proposal to restore our water industry to environmental and financial health , and to harness the amazing power of citizen scientist and volunteer up and down the country . it be why we call for the inclusion of water campaigner , such as WASP , Save Windermere , the Clean River Kent Campaign , Eden Rivers Trust and South Cumbria Rivers Trust , on water company board . it be why we call for the Government ' s welcome new sewage spill database to be a searchable tool , include retrospectively , so that we do not hamstre those brilliant volunteer who seek to hold the water industry and its regulator to account . ten of thousand of people be give their expertise , time and passion to clean up our waterway . let we let they off the leash , equip they and empower they . I be sad to see Conservative and Labour colleague refuse to support these measure during the passage of the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , but I hope that they will have a change of heart today . in the motion before we , we specifically urge the establishment of a new system of blue flag status for river and chalk stream as a practical way to force water company to be more accountable for the safety of the swimmer who use they and for the ongoing protection and flourishing of precious habitat and ecosystem . rise — I will give way first to the hon . gentleman — and then to several other . vote for the recent Water ( Special Measures ) Act and serve in Committee with the hon . Gentleman be one of the highlight of my first six month in this place . [ hon . member : " aw . " ] for constituent in my coastal community , it be so important that we get this right , so it be right that we take a long - term transformative approach . do he agree that it be not just the safety of resident and tourist that will benefit from the Government ' s change to clean up our water , but the selfless volunteer from organisation such as the RNLI in place like Weston - super - Mare , who deserve to do their vital lifesaving work in the clean and safe water possible ? I completely agree — and the feeling be mutual . I appreciate that I be go on a bit and that a few member wish to intervene . we will have to go by hand up . [ interruption . ] my hon . friend be make a typically good speech . do he agree that water from area where one can not swim still end up in area where one can ? the Roden and Perry river in my constituency suffer over 2 , 000 hour of sewage spill in the past year — the Perry be affect by a spill into the Common brook near Oswestry . not only do that water go past farmer ’ field , but it end up in Shrewsbury , where there be a designate swimming area . I want to swim in it . do he agree that the blue flag status would clear up the whole catchment , not just the place where people go swim ? order . before you get back to your foot , Mr Farron , I remind you that you can speak as long as you want , but the long you speak , the less likely it be that colleague will be able to contribute . I appreciate your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I will allow maybe only two more intervention . I be come towards the end of my remark . I be try to be not selfish but generous by get the balance right . I do not want to squeeze people out altogether . rise — I give my hon . friend one of the last two berth . last week , I join constituent involve in citizen science project test water quality in the River Stour . the finding be deeply concern : the very high level of phosphate and nitrate in the water be clear evidence of the ongoing damage to our waterway . will my hon . friend join I in commend the important work of volunteer in citizen science project , and do he agree that the Environment Agency must be properly resource to monitor water quality in our river , brooks , stream and sea ? I agree . the Ministers be really lucky in so many way . they be in the good the Department and — like few other in government — they have an army of volunteer to call upon who will be their arm and leg out in the community . we ask the Government to empower those volunteer even more . if there be one more intervention , I will take it . [ interruption . ] no ? then I will now plough on to the bitter end , which be not too far off , I promise . People have talk about blue flag status . that be one of the key proposal in the motion . the point of blue flag status for river , chalk stream and lake be that it be a practical way of force water company to be more accountable for the safety of swimmer and for the ongoing protection of precious habitat and ecosystem . we call on the Government to introduce a blue corridor programme for river , chalk stream and lake to ensure clean and healthy water through the creation of a new blue flag status . many river and lake have site with bathing water status , include near Coniston and Windermere in my own patch , but what will surprise many people be the fact that have bathing water status mean just that a location will be test more frequently ; it do not automatically mean that it be any clean . there be over 24 , 000 sewage spill last year into our bathing water alone , for a duration of over 179 , 000 hour . surfer Against Sewage find that the Government ' s new bathing water feasibility test lacking . it say : " this step could mean that site that be deem too polluted risk be immediately deny this designation , and therefore unable to receive the monitoring and investment need to make blue space clean and safe " . as my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) point out recently , that give water company a loophole to get away without clean up a bathing site that people use regularly because it be too polluted anyway . if it be a popular swimming site , it must be clean up . in contrast , blue flag status would be grant only at those site where the datum show that the water be clean and safe . we would give swimmer and other river user proper evidence - base confidence in the safety of the water . if evidence be need that our proposal be desperately need , Surfers Against Sewage receive 1 , 853 sickness report from contact with our waterway in 2024 alone — that be nine year of sick day . as a brief aside , because it be so important and central to what we be try to achieve , we want to provide special protection for our chalk stream . they be rare , ecologically unique habitat that be often refer to as England ' s rainforest , yet even they have come under threat from sewage dumping in recent year . blue flag status for chalk stream would drive their recovery after year of abuse . to conclude , to represent the precious lake and dale of Westmorland and Lonsdale be a massive privilege , and it be also a huge responsibility . we know in our community that it be our collective calling to steward the epic slice of creation that surround we , include the stunning water , mere and tarn of the Lake district , our coast and our river . they be not ours to keep ; they be ours to preserve for the people of these island and beyond , and for the people of this generation and the generation that we shall never meet . politic be also a great calling . in this case , it allow we to establish the structure that will enable that stewardship of our waterway to be effective , to be more than just word and to mean practical change for the well . our motion today give the House the opportunity to do practical good , and to do so now , without further dither or delay . resident in every community of our country want we to listen to they and to act to end the sewage scandal . we must not let they down . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to end and insert " recognise that the Government inherit a break water system , with record level of sewage be pump into waterway ; welcome the Government ' s rapid delivery of its promise to put water company under tough special measure through the landmark Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which have introduce new power to ban the payment of unfair bonus to water boss who fail to protect the environment and to bring tough criminal charge against they if they break the law ; support the Government ' s work to secure over £ 100 billion of private sector investment to upgrade the crumble sewage infrastructure ; and back the large review of the water sector since privatisation , aim at tackle inherit systemic issue in order to clean up UK river , lake and sea for good . " I welcome the chance to set out the action that the Government be take to end the sewage scandal in our waterway once and for all . the staggeringly high level of sewage pour into our river , lake and sea be a national disgrace . the beach in Deal that I visit just a couple of week ago be force to cancel its boxing day swim because of toxic level of sewage in the water . the world - famous boat race between the Oxford and Cambridge University boat club early this month be , yet again , overshadow by concern about water quality in the Thames , so much so that rower be tell not to throw their teammate into the river . the Secretary of State mention the boat race , but in 10 week we will be welcome the world ' s rower to the Henley Royal Regatta . do he share my concern about the amount of sewage be dump in that part of the Thames , which be blight the event ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention and I share his concern . wherever it be happen and damage people ' s ability to enjoy our river , it be a disgrace and a scandal , and we want to work across the House to put that right . parent across the country should not have to worry about let their child splash about in the river or paddle in the sea on a sunny bank holiday weekend . I recently meet campaigner at windermere , in the constituency of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , who tell I that they be sick and tired of the sewage flow into the iconic and beautiful lake on their doorstep and that , a few year ago , that sewage cause algal bloom that turn it bright green . up and down the country , the public be furious about water pollution . so be I and so be this House , so how do we get into this situation ? I be afraid to say it be the toxic result of year of failure by the previous Conservative Government . instead of fix our sewage system before a problem turn into a crisis , the Conservatives stand back and let water company divert million of pound of their customer ' money into the pocket of their boss and shareholder . over £ 25 million be pay in bonus to water company chief executive during the last Parliament alone . the Tories leave our water infrastructure to crumble into ruin . put party politic aside for a moment , I point out to the Secretary of State that Southern Water be fine a record amount of £ 90 million for dump raw sewage in 2021 . last year , it receive another fine for dump sewage in river near Southampton . this year , bill have rise by almost 50 % for resident in Fareham and Waterlooville . Southern Water now propose to recycle effluent water in Budds Farm near my constituency , to distribute drinking water to resident in Fareham and Waterlooville . will the Secretary of State do the right thing and reject Southern Water ' s proposal , which be expensive , disruptive and dubious ? I do not trust Southern Water , and my constituent do not trust it either . I hope that the right hon . and learn Lady will work with the Government and support the reform we be bring forward to improve the functioning and performance of the water sector and all the water company up and down the country , so that we can prevent the kind of concern she speak about . let we look at the record of the past Government . if somebody see a crack in the wall of their house and they leave it for 10 year , the problem get much bad and it cost much more to put it right . that be exactly what happen with our sewage system . the result be that river , lake and sea across this country be choke by record level of raw human filth , and bill be rise to repair damage that could have be repair at a much low cost if it have be do early . I be afraid that the Tories pollute our waterway and leave bill payer to pay the price for their failure . it be no wonder that they stand condemn as the sewage party . my constituency be serve by Thames Water , which be the large provider in the country . every week in my surgery , it be fair to say that I have people who have frankly give up on this issue ever be fix . will the Secretary of State provide my constituent and the rest of the country with the reassurance that this Labour Government will fix the issue leave by the Conservatives ? as my hon . friend will have see , we have already pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which give the regulator more tooth to enforce against the pollute water company . we look forward to Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review for the Independent Water Commission ; we will get the interim report next month and the final report the month after that , which will lead to further action to reset this sector once and for all . on the subject of the Act , it be wonderful to hear the Secretary of State say that he want to take criminal action against water company and water boss , but I table an amendment to do just that that be reject by the Government . now that the Act have pass , it be interesting that the Government be so keen . why do they not just accept my amendment , or a similar one ? the Act do not mention criminal charge or what they will do , as my amendment do , but it pass without that measure be put in place . the Government be now say from a point of retrospective gleefulness at the Dispatch Box that they would like to put that in . be that actually go to happen ? with the great respect , the hon . Lady ' s party have 14 year to take action , and do nothing . although I be grateful to the Liberal Democrats for call this debate , and I think there be many point of similarity between our approach , I must gently point to some of the opportunity they miss to take action when they be in government . for instance , the Environment Agency have its funding cut by more than half between 2010 and 2019 , lead to a fall in prosecution against water company and other polluter , and there be Liberal Democrats in the coalition Cabinet that start those cut . the coalition Government publish a report in 2011 that wrongly and , in my view , bizarrely conclude that water regulation " work and be not fundamentally flawed " . of course , under that coalition Government , a liberal Democrat Minister be responsible for the water sector between 2013 and 2015 , and disappointingly they keep in place the very system of regulation that the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale quite rightly just criticise . would the Secretary of State recognise that the Budget paper for 2009 and 2010 show that the then Labour Chancellor be project big capital cut in expenditure than be carry out under the coalition Government ? I do not think that decision take by the coalition Government be the fault of the previous Labour Government . I be merely gently point out that the Liberal Democrats do have a chance to reset regulation in the way that this Government be now do . where they offer their support for that work , I be grateful for it ; by work constructively right across the House , we can make sure that we now reset a water sector that have fail the public , consumer ’ investment and the environment for far too long . in my constituency , the Cut run from Binfield all the way through to the Thames . that river have 615 hour - worth of sewage pump into it last year , and my constituent Danny ' s dog have to be put down , have get so ill from swim in that water . do the Secretary of State agree that no matter how many fine we levy against Thames Water , which ultimately come back to our bill — we have to pay for they — they will do absolutely nothing to deter the shareholder and make they invest properly where need ? the hon . Gentleman make a very powerful case for why reform be so desperately need . my condolence to the owner of the dog — that be a terrible thing to happen to anybody . Bill payer in my constituency of Shipley be face an 18 % hike in their bill . by 2030 , the increase could be as high as 35 % . about 19 % of those bill already go towards service the debt of the hold company that own Yorkshire Water . be it not the case that our customer be pay the price for the failure of the Opposition party — plural — to address the problem in the water industry during their time in government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be angry about the bill rise , as she be . I be sure that member on both side of the House be angry about they , but in a very real sense , people be be force to pay the price for 14 year of conservative failure . previous government let the sewage scandal spread ; this Government will end it once and for all . that work begin as soon as we come into office . within one week of the general election , I invite the water company chief executive into my office , and I ringfence money earmark for investment in water infrastructure so that it can never again be divert for the payment of bonus or dividend . I welcome the rapid action that this Government have take to hold fail water company to account . do the Secretary of State share my view that it be simply disgraceful that water company ceo such as Yorkshire Water ' s Nicola Shaw — who pay herself a £ 371 , 000 bonus — be able to pay themselves multimillion - pound bonus while oversee record level of sewage spill ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , which be why we have give the regulator new power through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 . the conservative party could have do so at any point during its 14 year in power , but at no point do it take that common - sense action . we pass that landmark piece of legislation , which become law in February . it give the regulator tough new power to hold water company to account , ban unfair bonus when water company boss fail to meet high standard , and impose strict penalty — include up to two year in prison — if water company employee obstruct investigation by environmental regulator , as well as severe and automatic fine for wrongdoing . environmental regulator can now recover cost for successful enforcement , mean that the polluter pay and the regulator gain new resource to enforce more effectively . I suggest to the Secretary of State that the problem may be more deep - seat than we realise . he mention algal bloom in the Lake district . not only do those bloom turn the water a strange colour ; they suck the oxygen out of the water , lead to the death of wildlife in the water . furthermore , sewage contain heavy metal and other toxic substance that can kill fish or affect their ability to reproduce , so we may find ecosystem that have be damage over a much long term than we realise . I recognise the catastrophe that the hon . Member be talk about . it be not just that the water be pollute ; the water become toxic , and it be kill ecosystem and damage the wide environment . those be all reason that we need to move ahead quickly with the reform that this Government be work towards . rise — I will give way two more time and then I have well make some progress , or Madam Deputy Speaker will chastise I as she chastise the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale . the Secretary of State be right to outline the legislation he be bring forward , but on the ground there be still frustration about pollution in river , such as in Botley in my constituency . we be still see overflow — not from sewage but from development pollutant go into the river — and parish council be identify they quickly and come to I , but the accountability structure behind water company such as Southern Water will not answer to elect member like I . we be still not see the improvement that the Secretary of State be advocate at the Dispatch Box . will he agree to meet I and my parish council to hear our concern ? can he outline briefly how the sewage legislation that he have just bring forward will add to that accountability for parish council and local resident ? the hon . Member make an important point . one issue that Sir Jon Cunliffe and the water commission be look at be how we can increase accountability and responsiveness directly to customer and , indeed , to authority such as the parish council he have just talk about . I would be happy to arrange a meeting for he with the appropriate Minister . the Secretary of State refer to rare ecological river that can be damage by sewage pollution . in my constituency , we have a very rare chalk stream , the River Ver . Thames Water say that many of the sewage spill happen because the pipe be old and porous . part of the solution be to line they , but when Thames Water be line pipe , it be not prioritise pipe that be close to rare chalk stream . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss my Chalk Streams ( Sewerage Investment ) Bill , which would make water company prioritise those pipe that be close to chalk stream , because of their rare ecological status ? I know the River Ver very well ; I use to walk past it every day on my way to primary school at the Abbey primary school at the bottom of the abbey orchard . I would be happy to make sure that the hon . Lady get a meeting with the appropriate Minister to raise those point . the additional new resource that our reform will give to the regulator be underpin by mandatory monitoring of storm overflow and pollution incident . water company in England and Wales must now publish information on the frequency and duration of discharge from every single storm overflow within one hour of the discharge happen . we have extend that to emergency overflow , so that all spill will be publicly report in near real time . we expect water company to monitor 50 % of they by 2030 and the rest by 2035 . company be now require to publish their annual pollution incident reduction plan and implementation report to outline the progress they have make and show the public that they have a credible plan to end the scandal of water pollution . those measure give the water regulator new power to hold water company to account and ensure that customer and the environment always come first . we can and we will turn the water sector around . we have secure more than £ 104 billion of private sector investment in the water sector over the next five year . that be the big investment in our water sector in its history , and the second big investment in any part of the economy over the lifetime of this Parliament . it will build and upgrade water infrastructure in every single region of the country , cut sewage spill by 45 % compare with 2021 level and drastically improve the quality of water in our river , lake and sea . it will allow we to move ahead with nine new reservoir and nine large - scale water transfer scheme , and reduce leak from crumble pipe , so that we have a reliable water supply for the future . this vast investment will create ten of thousand of job up and down the country , allow we to go ahead with building 1 . 5 million new home , support 150 major infrastructure project and power new industry with high water usage , such as data centre . this be the regional economic growth that the country vote for last year ; this be the Labour party ' s plan for change in action . I think that member in all part of the House agree with much of what the Secretary of State be say . I be fortunate enough to have the beautiful River Trent in my constituency , along with the Sow and the Penk , but new housing development , which he mention , be a big issue , because the run - off from they be not properly attenuate . how could that well be deal with ? build home for the right reason sometimes have unintended consequence . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right , and I have ask Sir Jon Cunliffe to consider measure that we could implement to start to address that and , indeed , wide issue involve nutrient neutrality in our waterway . rise — I will make some progress , because I do not want to take up too much of the debate . last month the Water Minister and I tour the country to see where and how the investment will be spend — from windermere to the Wye , from Hampshire to Yorkshire , and to Suffolk , Northumbria and Somerset . in windermere , we be work with local group and organisation to eliminate all sewage discharge into the lake . that include scheme that allow owner of septic tank to connect they to the main sewer network so that they no long discharge directly into the water . on the River Wye we be run a £ 1 million joint research initiative with the Welsh Government to tackle water - quality issue across the catchment . we be work with local farmer , environmental group and citizen scientist to investigate the source of the pollution so that we can tackle they effectively . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make some progress , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind too much . the south - east of England will face severe water shortage by 2030 if we do not act urgently , so we be support new infrastructure such as the Havant Thicket reservoir , which will store nearly 9 billion litre of water when it be complete . this be just the start of our wide plan to fundamentally reset the water sector so that it be fit for the future . I be grateful to Sir Jon Cunliffe , the former Deputy Governor of the Bank of England , for undertake the big review of the water sector since privatisation . he be support by an advisory group of expert cover the environment , public health , investor , engineering , customer and economic . the failure of regulation and governance that allow our water system to decline into scandalous failure must never happen again . this summer , Sir Jon will publish his finding on how we can build the robust regulatory framework that we need to clean up our waterway , build infrastructure for a reliable water supply and restore public confidence . will the Secretary of State give way ? if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will make a little more progress , because I have already take up more than 20 minute of other member ' time . Sir Jon be look into how we can embrace a catchment - base approach to clean up our river , and our farming road map will help farmer to make the transition to more nature - positive farming method that will reduce agricultural run - off into our waterway . I hope that many member have share their view as part of the Independent Water Commission ' s call for evidence , which close at the end of today . the Government will respond and consult on the commission ' s recommendation , and we intend to legislate so that we can completely reset our water sector for the future . the Water Minister have announce reform to shake up our water bathing regulation for the first time in more than a decade , so that more people , whether they be swimmer , paddleboarder or surfer , can get outside and enjoy our water safely . our propose measure would remove the fix bathing season date from the regulation to well reflect when people actually use our water , and would allow great flexibility in monitoring . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will this time , because the hon . Gentleman have be very persistent . I thank the Secretary of State . I have just be read about his core reform , and I note that , as he have say , core reform 3 change the way in which the season for bathing be determined . however , it continue the principle that water be not test by the Environment Agency throughout the year . this be an important omission that must be rectify . during a bathing season , the water can become polluted . will the Secretary of State consider introduce all - year - round testing for our Blue Flag area ? order . before the Secretary of State respond , I would like he to consider the fact that more than 30 colleague wish to contribute . the long he speak , the less likely it be that they will all get in . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not take any more intervention . I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s point . public health be a priority in the reform that we be make . the Environment Agency must consider public safety and the environment when it assess application for bathing water , and remove the harmful automatic designation of bathing water so that we can continue to invest in and improve these site . application for new bathing water will open next month , add to the more than 450 bathing water around the country . detail of how to apply be online . the sewage scandal end with this Labour Government . our groundbreake Water ( Special Measures ) Act will give the regulator tough new power to hold water company to account . they will no long get away with pollute our waterway and reward themselves with undeserved bonus for what they have do . this be a fresh start for the water sector — a fundamental reset that will clean up our waterway , create thousand of job , grow the economy and give we a reliable water supply for decade to come . exciting progress be already be make . the Thames tideway tunnel be fully activate in February — an amazing feat of british engineering and entrepreneurial spirt that will reduce sewage spill into the Thames by around 95 % . since come into operation , the tunnel have capture enough sewage to fill Wembley stadium five time over and stop it pour into the river . I want to see innovation like that not just in London but right across the country , bring investment , drive regional economic growth and clean up our waterway for good . many of we cherish memory from childhood of summer holiday on the beach , explore rock pool or splash about in the wave . today ' s child deserve to make the same magical memory . this be our moment to give our child back the future that be their birthright , to restore pride in our river , lake and sea , to end the sewage scandal and to clean up our waterway for good . that be the prize , and this be the Government who will make it happen . rise — order . because the Front - Bench contribution have be so substantial , Back Benchers will now be on a time limit of three minute . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I respect the fact that this be the Liberal Democrats ' opposition day debate , so I have be cut part out of my speech . I therefore hope the House will forgive I if I do not take every intervention that be offer to I . I thank the Liberal Democrats for choose to debate this important issue . we all know and agree that there be fundamental problem face the water and sewerage industry . a drainage and sewerage system that be first build in the victorian era do not meet the need of the population it must now serve , or the pressure of more frequent and severe weather event . to fix the problem , we must first diagnose it and measure it . that be why the previous Government take the essential step of radically overhaul the monitoring of storm overflow . on previous occasion , the Secretary of State have dismiss the significance of that data collection and monitoring . that be unfair , because when we come into government in 2010 , the Labour Government have leave we and the Liberal Democrats in the coalition Government with a water system that be out of control ; just 7 % of storm overflow be monitor . in other word , people across the country be swim and play in water without know that it have be contaminate with raw sewage . I have the pleasure of go to school in Blackpool , and there be certain time of the summer season when local would not venture into the sea , because we know the consequence of dare to do so . the point I would make to everyone in this Chamber be that this be a long - stand set of problem . to pretend otherwise — I know some people get a little carry away with their advocacy — do not do the public , our constituent or , indeed , our waterway the justice that they deserve . we be proud of the fact that by the time we leave government we have meet our ambitious target to ensure that 100 % of storm overflow be monitor . the importance of that be emphasise — will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will just finish this point , and then I will take the intervention . the importance of that be emphasise by the intervention we have already have , because member across this House have be cite the very stark and shocking statistic on storm overflow , sewage overflow and so on in their constituency . they have rightly rely on those figure already in this debate , and I have no doubt that they will rely on they in their speech as well . in the dark day before 2010 , their predecessor would not have have that information . [ laughter . ] I see a Labour Member — the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) — laugh about that . I do not know why she be laugh at know more through data collection so that we can correct the situation . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . monitoring sewage overflow do not immediately improve the health of our environment or of the public . it be the first minimum step to be able to take meaningful action , but I be sorry to say that the previous Government fail to take meaningful action . between 2021 and 2023 , Dewsbury and Batley experience a massive number of sewage spill , total 4 , 604 incident with a total duration of a staggering 28 , 383 hour or approximately three and a quarter year . do the right hon . member agree with I and my constituent that the privatisation of the water industry have be a total and abject failure , cause significant harm to our environment , public health and wildlife , and — order . the hon . Member will know that intervention need to be brief , and should not be prepare and read out from a script . I thank the hon . Gentleman , who have in fact line up the next paragraph my speech — it be extraordinary — because this improve knowledge must lead to action . will the right hon . Lady give way ? no . I will come to the hon . gentleman in due course . I have say that this be the Liberal Democrats ' opposition day debate , and I will give they the respect that they deserve . the improved knowledge must lead to action . as I be delighted the Secretary of State acknowledge , one of the most tangible improvement in the past decade be just a few metre away under our foot — the Thames tideway tunnel . sadly , he do not have the generosity of spirit to acknowledge the role that the Conservative Government play in that . this multibillion - pound infrastructure project , announce and deliver by the Conservative Government , have already stop 500 , 000 tonne of sewage flow into the River Thames since it start operate in February . over time , the 16 mile pipe be expect to stop 95 % of sewage spill that would previously have pollute the River Thames . that meaningful action be already make a real difference to our nation ' s capital — build on the datum that some laugh at — and I ask genuinely : where be Labour ' s plan for more ? in government , we also want to clear up the water industry and our environment . it be the Environment Act 2021 , pass by the last government , that give strong power to regulator and impose strict demand for tackle pollution . we set legally bind target to improve water quality and availability , and to reduce nutrient pollution . we roll out catchment - sensitive farming to all farm in England . we step up the requirement for investment , include investment from water company , and storm overflow improvement . after 14 year in opposition , the Labour party should have come into office with a plan of what more need to be do to fix this century - old problem and , what be more , have set that plan in action last summer with energy and gusto . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State be chuntere from a sedentary position , but may I say what a delight it be to see he in the Chamber ? normally , he be run frit from farmer . instead of a plan , we have have an underwhelming trickle — a review , yet another talk shop forum that have do nothing other than have a meeting , and a Bill which , as we say during its passage , set out much of what be already happen . as with every other part of this government , Ministers have no plan , and they be now try to come up with one . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way in a moment . for example , the Secretary of State recently pledge to clean up Lake windermere so that only rainwater flow into it . it be a laudable ambition . who can disagree with that ambition ? however , he give no timeframe and no plan for deliver this vision . I have also visit the constituency of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I meet local resident and farmer — something I do not think the Secretary of State manage to do — and business owner recently . [ interruption . ] well , they do notice . they be not hold their breath for action because , rather like his no farming policy , it be all talk and no action . a significant amount of the Government ' s supposedly groundbreake water legislation , include the measure on monitoring , block bonus , and fine , be already bring in by the previous Government . sadly , they reject our amendment to maintain the important water restoration fund to protect waterway , include chalk stream , many of which be in my constituency . I genuinely hope that they will reconsider that . rise — I be very happy to give way if the hon . Lady be go to support and carry on our work — delight , in fact . I would never wish to be impolite and I will not be now , but I think the right hon . Lady will find that our argument on the water restoration fund be that it do not need primary legislation to happen . what have happen since then , Madam Deputy Speaker , be that everyone who have be successful in apply for the water restoration fund have be contact and the money have already be offer , so I think the right hon . Lady ' s information might be slightly out of date . I be delighted to hear that . I gently suggest that that be not the response the hon . Lady give when we be debate it and press she to put it in the Bill . it be precisely because we do our job of scrutinise the Bill and try to improve it that , I be delighted to hear , she have now put that into action . another example — I be happy to take another intervention from she — be that we table an amendment to limit the amount of debt that water company could accumulate , as well as an amendment to protect bill payer . sadly , both be reject . the hon . Lady be welcome to intervene . be she do that ? no intervention . well , we have not get that commitment . I be genuinely happy to give way to she , because I want to improve her legislation . the right hon . Lady be rather keen to hear from I and I be happy to offer to intervene . the water commission be look at level of debt . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , will know , because we have the conversation many time in Committee , that that be part of what the commission be look at . I gently remind the right hon . Lady that , as much as I accept that she be super keen for we to have achieve everything she fail to do in nine month , she have 14 year to do it . wow ! where be the energy ? where be the gusto ? rewrite history seem to be a theme this week for the Government , but there we go . that be a little bit delicate for Labour Back Benchers , give the discussion this week . we ban bonus for the boss of water company that have commit criminal breach and water company that illegally pollute our river can be prosecute , make it clear that polluter will pay for damage to our natural environment . I hope that in her wind - up , the Minister will answer the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) about fine be ringfence for local area , and the important point make by my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) about the amendment she table to the Water ( Special Measures ) Act . the Secretary of State , as be his nervous tic , merely fall back on whatever they say about the past , rather than set out his vision for the future . I can always tell when I be get to he , bless he . we quadruple water company inspection and set in place a plan to have 4 , 000 inspection a year by April 2025 , increase to 10 , 000 a year from April 2026 . will the Government commit to that vital work , or will the Chancellor cut the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs budget so starkly that they be cancel ? we have the stunning River Derwent run through Derby , but it be pollute by sewage 2 , 675 time in 2024 , last over 15 , 000 hour . I invite the right hon . member to take responsibility for cut the Environment Agency budget by half , leave it without the power and resource to combat this kind of sewage . it be a brave rural constituency MP who defend the activity of the Environment Agency . with some of the disappointment that local resident have have with the Environment Agency , particularly in my part of the world , there be real work to do there . rise — I be still answer the hon . Lady ' s first intervention . of course , she be rely on the datum — that be exactly the point . again , I come back to the point — I be try to be constructive and collegiate in the way I be deal with this . [ laughter . ] the public will hear the laughter ; that be what Government member do not understand . I be try to be constructive . we manage to collect that datum and we have significant infrastructure investment in the Thames tideway tunnel , as I have explain . however , as I have always say at this Dispatch Box , there be more to do , so we genuinely will support constructive effort by the Government . that be why we scrutinise their legislation so carefully and why we put forward perfectly proper amendment to the Water ( Special Measures ) Act . I be delighted that the Government have take our suggestion on the water restoration fund so seriously and have enact that . however , we must not conduct this conversation with quite the emotional distress that the Secretary of State seem to be in at the moment . of course , the liberal Democrats know the scale of the challenge , as there be a liberal Democrat Water Minister for a large part of the coalition Government . that fact seem to have be miss in their motion today — I be sure it be just an oversight . the Liberal Democrats want to see even more progress with the blue flag scheme , and we agree with they on that . since 2010 , the number of designate bathing water have increase , and we have see a significant improvement in water quality rating , with more water rate as excellent or good , and an increase in blue flag beach . as a proud coastal MP , I want to see many more blue flag beach like Mablethorpe and Sutton on Sea on our glorious Lincolnshire coastline , and I will , of course , support meaningful effort to achieve that . if I may , I will just ask for a point of clarity from the Liberal Democrats . in 2023 , they call for a ban on bank holiday sewage discharge — again , a laudable ambition . however , it be point out to the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) that this policy would result in burst water pipe and sewage back up into people ' s home . when these laudable ambition be put forward — indeed , we all want to see they — will the Liberal Democrats ensure that their own policymaking would not have unintended consequence , include , as I say , sewage flow back up into people ' s home ? I will finish on this point , Madam Deputy Speaker . I emphasise again that we all care about the quality of our waterway . as we show with the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , we will work constructively across the House to improve our waterway and the legislation put forward by the Government . I be proud to be lead the policy renewal work for farming , food , fishing , environment and water for the Conservative party with my excellent shadow ministerial team , my hon . friend the Members for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) and for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . we will be watch and scrutinise the Government ' s work on water carefully . the promise the Secretary of State be make now will be remember by our constituent , by colleague across the House and by voter , as , I be afraid , his promise be remember by our farmer . I thank the Liberal Democrats for secure this important debate . they be ask the Government today for three key commitment : to take urgent action to end the sewage scandal ; to provide great protection against sewage dumping ; and to ensure that the public know when river be clean and safe . I have some great news for the Liberal Democrats , because we have pretty much deliver all that already . this Labour Government act urgently to bring forward the Water ( Special Measures ) Act — it be one of our first piece of legislation in our first King ' s Speech and become law this February — to end the disgraceful behaviour of the water company . the legislation do exactly what it say on the tin : it put our disgraceful water company into special measure , just like a school that have fail its ofsted exam . the Government be wade in to ramp up regulation and enforcement of these company . we will ensure that their focus be back on consumer — their experience , their service level and their bill — so we have be work on additional regulation . the Liberal Democrats talk about a lack of resource , but from what we have hear today — this be also in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act — it be very clear that the polluter will pay and that water company ' fine will come back into the EA to put the much - need resourcing where it should be . we hear the shadow Secretary of State bemoan the laughter from Labour Members . I think the laughter be at the idea that people in this country should be grateful to the Conservatives for the condition in which they leave our waterway . do my hon . friend share our amusement at that ridiculous thought ? rise — order . the shadow Secretary of State will know that she can not intervene on an intervention , which , by the way , be far too long . I think we will go back to Julia Buckley . I thank my hon . friend for his amusing intervention , but more important be the measure in the 2025 Act that ban bonus when the high standard of our environmental protection be not meet . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . labour Back Benchers should know this by now . the hon . member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) fall into error — I will be kind to he — by mischaracterise the comment that I make about he and the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) laugh during the course of my speech , when I be talk about the importance of datum monitoring . it be not in any way — order . the shadow Secretary of State will know that that be not a point of order , but a point of debate . perhaps we have good return to Julia Buckley . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your excellent chairmanship . our important Bill have not just ban bonus , but introduce criminal liability , which will mean that , finally , chief executive and senior leadership figure can end up in prison for up to two year . we have also introduce mandatory electronic sensor , which monitor the overflow in real time . this be objective datum that be measure in real time , and , crucially , as this be an important question from the Liberal Democrats , that datum be available to the public . will my hon . friend give way ? forgive I , but I must make some progress . we have also force the water company to deliver on their five - year investment plan for sustainable urban drainage to rectify the inadequate infrastructure , which have not keep pace with capacity over the past 30 year . in Shropshire , which I represent , that mean an additional investment of £ 500 million to rectify our sewage drainage over the next five year . I have be an MP for only a few month , but in that short time I be proud of the Government ' s swift and decisive action to immediately curtail the excess of the privatised water industry . in my constituency of Shrewsbury , we have significant sewage outflow in the town centre , as the beautiful River Severn completely loop round the centre , with over 30 combine sewage overflow . underground , we have inadequate victorian infrastructure , which have be ignore under our cobbled street . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act could not come quickly enough for my constituent in Shrewsbury . it have already deliver all three ask of the Liberal Democrats in today ' s debate : we have take urgent action ; we have legislate to protect consumer against sewage dumping ; and we have ensure that the public have the information they need . no one can question this Government ' s commitment to clean up water . the only question be why the Liberal Democrats vote against this important Act . the pollution of river be an issue that strike close to home for many of we . just last November , Wessex Water be fine half a million pound for pump raw sewage into Clackers brook , a small river rise in Bromham and flow 5 mile through Melksham in my constituency . this incident result in the death of more than 2 , 000 fish , include all aquatic life within a 1 km radius of the leak . the system in place simply can not handle the pressure bring to bear by the increase volatility in rainfall level see in recent time . I have also be to visit the home of one of my constituent in West Lavington , where a manhole have be lift from its housing as a result of a downpour . toxic sewage then pollute a nearby chalk stream , damage its unique ecosystem that be home to a variety of specie , include trout . these kind of incident can not be allow to persist . the current antiquated piping system do not satisfy modern demand . water company must update and future - proof these system , and we need they to do so now . I be pleased to see Wessex Water — credit where it be due — invest £ 2 million in a sewage storage facility in Bradford - on - Avon to ensure that it can mitigate increase pressure on sewage pipe . however , it be clear that more must be do to protect our vital aquatic ecosystem . we must be clear that this be not just a problem for water company . development in farming practice have lead to detrimental impact on both soil quality and river health . Acreage dedicate to the production of maize treble between 1990 and 2000 , make it one of the UK ' s fast grow crop . however , maize allow for high level of surface run - off , cause soil degradation and the pollution of our river . that make it one of the most damaging crop . the rise in intensive poultry unit be another area of concern . chicken manure contain far high level of phosphate than manure from other farm animal , and it starve fish and river plant of oxygen . run - off from chicken farm or indeed field spread with chicken manure be catastrophic to our waterway . we must expect well from our water company . investment in infrastructure must rise with the demand of the modern world . in Stroud , Severn Trent have invest £ 25 million to stop overflow of sewage into the River Frome . together with natural flood management from our district council , we have make river cleaner , and as a keen swimmer I be grateful for that . would the hon . member acknowledge that some water company have be invest heavily ? as I have just say , in Bradford - on - Avon , similar investment have be make — credit where credit be due . I will come back to the important issue about farming . we should also approach the issue of river pollution in a far more holistic manner , acknowledge the various factor , include agriculture , that contribute to the fact that just 14 % of our waterway be in good health . we have have a wonderful surf around the UK ' s river , lake and sea this afternoon . every single one of we in this House will have a waterway in our constituency , and we have all have to endure the bad impact of the 14 year of negligence and failure that almost kill some of our river . the Wye and the Usk , which run through my constituency , be two fantastic example of waterway that sadly have be affect for too long . run - off from agriculture , liquid waste from industry and sewage result from inadequate investment by fail water company have all add up to increase phosphate level in our river . test in the Usk have show scarily high level of e - coli in the water , which make it unsafe for bathe and stop local people enjoy the river in the way they should be able to — splosh through stream and jump into the sea , as the Secretary of State speak about early . we should all be able to swim , kayak and canoe without fear of nasty infection . tourism have suffer , as have business like the one run by Angela Jones , whose livelihood depend on the river in Monmouthshire . I want to pay tribute to the brilliant citizen scientist and campaigner in my constituency who tirelessly work to save our local river , include friend of the River Wye , save the River Usk , and the Wye Catchment Partnership . member of our community up and down the UK be test and monitor river for pollution and be come up with innovative cross - border solution . the good news be that this Government have pay attention to people in Monmouthshire and all over England and Wales . the last Government have an unfunded , pie - in - the - sky action plan for the River Wye that only look at England . water flow across border , and I be so pleased that , as the Secretary of State so eloquently mention , the two Labour Governments in Westminster and Cardiff have make progress and put £ 1 million into the River Wye so that we can clean it up once and for all . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act have make extraordinary progress in make sure that polluter be accountable . it will strengthen Ofwat ' s power so that it can well hold water company to account and bring tough criminal charge against those who break the law . this be only the beginning . we know that there be much more to do , and the upcoming Cunliffe review will help we to do that , but I be so proud that the Labour Government have achieve more in nine month than the previous Government do in 14 year — and , notably , more than the Liberal Democrats also do in coalition . my constituency contain the source of the Thames , so I could , in theory , row from my constituency to the House . I would like to celebrate the opening of the Thames tideway tunnel , as mention by the Secretary of State . back in 2013 , I be campaign for the tunnel , which include frowning at a sewage outflow under Putney bridge , so it could be say that I have be in the excrement for quite some time . sadly , the situation have not improve in the 12 year in between . just this morning , I have Ben Thornbury , an impressive young man , in my office to commend he on his work clean up the River Avon in Malmesbury . sadly — let no good deed go unpunished — he have pick up sepsis from the pollution in the river . I be grateful to say that he make a full recovery , but , still , that be a sign of the time . perhaps surprisingly , I would like to use a word rarely hear in the context of the water industry : hope . I would like to highlight some way in which good thing be happen , largely at the grassroots level . first , there be citizen science . eighty pollution incident be report by citizen just in my constituency in Wiltshire and Gloucestershire last year . citizen science can often highlight pollution incident up to three day before official source of information . in my constituency , I be lucky to have friend of the River Frome and Frome Families for the Future who do lot of citizen science in test the river , but do my hon . friend agree that we should not be rely on such group to test the water quality and that we need to empower and resource the Environment Agency to be do that ? we can not rely on area that be lucky enough to have these group . I completely agree . although I commend those grassroots effort , that be not their job . I be delighted to hear from the Secretary of State that we will soon have real - time reporting on water pollution , and I look forward to see the visible — and smellable — result of that . it be also the Earthwatch WaterBlitz this weekend , so hon . member may still have time to get their water testing kit do their own bit of citizen science . secondly , again , I applaud local effort , and especially the Malmesbury River Valleys Trust and the Cotswold Lakes Trust , for do such exemplary work in take care of our waterway and our wetland in the South Cotswolds . I recommend to hon . member across the House that we use our power to convene to bring together people around these issue . in the South Cotswolds , we recently hold two fruitful summit — one on the Gloucestershire side and one on the Wiltshire side — bring people together on the issue of flooding . they yield a lot of enthusiasm , expertise and actionable solution . however , as my hon . friend the Member for Frome and East Somerset ( Anna Sabine ) mention , we can not leave it all to the grassroot . we have a deeply dysfunctional water industry in this country , and we need to get upstream of these problem to the source . we have be hear all about monitoring in one hour and the huge amount of discharge . we do not have any of that information in Scotland as it be not a requirement for Scottish Water to release that and the SNP Government be not take any step to do so . we have no idea about the extent of the problem , but we know that it be substantial . will my hon . friend back I in support the cause for the Scottish Government to release the same information as there be England ? I would be more than happy to back my hon . friend ' s call for an equivalent system in Scotland . finally , I thank the Government for everything they be already do to reform the water industry and look forward to see real result in our waterway . I will add that , while I welcome the Cunliffe review , I be disappointed to find out that the ownership of water company be outside its scope . I sit on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , and we be also make submission to the Cunliffe review . I do not believe ownership of water be outside the scope of the review . it will be look at how our water be own — maybe not nationalisation , but certainly other method of ownership . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . that be not what I have be lead to believe from a roundtable with Sir Jon Cunliffe , but maybe I misunderstood . the truth be that the profit motive have no place in a vital public utility such as the water industry . we be one of only two country in the entire world that have a privatised water industry , and clearly it be not work and need to be review . it be a pleasure to speak in such an important debate , particularly as I represent one of the most beautiful county , and the large constituency , in England — as the Lib Dem spokesman , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , have already hint at . river define my constituency and the county I grow up in . from the Tyne to the Coquet to the Allen Valleys and all the way to the River Rede , we can not go throughout Northumberland without come across river and the community that be name for they and depend on they . they drive tourism , wildlife , and our local economy . protect those river be not a luxury or a nice to have ; it be a fundamental duty for those of we who represent those community . I be incredibly proud to be the MP for such a vibrant and active constituency with such fantastic grassroots campaigner , include Dr Stephen Westgarth and the " Clean Tyne " campaign . conservative Members will be aware that he be at one point a Conservative county council candidate — I enjoy work cross - party with people , although probably not quite as much in the week before the local election as in the week after . I also pay tribute to a retire Green party councillor in my constituency , Dr Nick Morphet , the councillor for Humshaugh . he have do an excellent job and , despite run against I in the general election , be always good company when I meet he on the doorstep . come back to slightly hackneye party politic , I recognise quite how much the sewage issue raise hackle and confirm just what a state of stagnation and decline the country have fall into . during 2024 , my constituency be pollute 3 , 991 time , with spillage last more than 27 , 000 hour . dumping sewage be not waste management ; it be environmental destruction and environmental vandalism , and it be particularly devastating in the rural north - east , where so much tourism rely on water . when the Minister come to wind up the debate — she be not in her place , but I hope she will hear this — I hope she will dwell on those community that rely on water , particularly the really isolate community such as those in Kielder , where they deal with the practicality of live so sparsely . I often talk about Hexham have a very rural population , but when I go to Kielder , they look at I come from Hexham as if I have come from Vegas . I be at a Kielder parish council meeting — it take an hour to get there — where one of the farmer say that if she be feed her cow , she can not have a shower . that be the kind of sparsity and rurality we be deal with . I urge the Minister , when she come to her foot , to address that point . if she come to meet the " Clean Tyne " campaign to discuss the difficulty it face and the work it be do to combat some of the challenge we face on the Tyne , it would be massively appreciated in my constituency . it be wonderful to follow the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who be my parliamentary twin , as it be . our name be so similar that we often get confusing correspondence . he must love that as much as I do . the sewage in our river be of great concern to my constituent in Beaconsfield , Marlow and the South Bucks village , as well as to my parliamentary twin on the Government Benches . in my constituency , I have work closely with local action group in Little Marlow and Farnham Common to secure a planned sewage upgrade for the Little Marlow sewage treatment work , through persistent lobbying of former Conservative Ministers and current Labour Ministers . I have repeatedly call for criminal sanction against water company executive for breach of their duty , but I have always say that more need to be do ; in particular , I urge the Minister to look again at strengthen the protection for water sport . early this year , I table two amendment to the Water ( Special Measures ) bill : one to introduce criminal sanction for water company boss who fail to report discharge and another to extend protection for water sport to match those for swimming water . these be serious , meaningful change need to far strengthen our oversight of water company and our waterway . in my constituency , we be rich in water sport along the Thames . we have Marlow Rowing Club , Marlow Canoe Club and the Upper Thames Sailing Club , to name just three wonderful example , and our local school regularly use the river for water sport . my secondary school be out on the Thames on a daily basis , include row and use the river , and it would be wonderful to have to protect aquatic sport in legislation . the wonderful River Nidd run through my constituency , which similarly have paddleboarde , kayak and all sort of wonderful activity — include the Knaresborough bed race , which run through the river at one point . do the hon . Lady not feel regret that the Conservative Government do not take the step she be outline now ? I have be lobby for these change for many year , and now that I be in opposition I have be able to table my own amendment , Lib Dem style ! I be happy that the Lib Dem spokesperson speak in support of my amendment during the Bill Committee . I love that cross - party support and be learn from their wonderful example of take amendment forward when not in power ; that be fun and enjoyable for we all . I do not table as many as their 42 amendment , but I do put forward two so I be work my way there . I want to see the provision I have mention move forward in any way possible , because they be so important for aquatic sport and for the river that we all benefit from and use . I want the same protection for water sport as those propose for bathing water , and I would like discharge from emergency overflow block within a 1 - mile radius of area use for aquatic sport , particularly by secondary school and by child . my hon . friend be make a very powerful speech about water sport , but do she agree that angling be also vital for our river ? I meet member of the Farnham Angling Society on the River Wey some week ago , and they be obviously very concerned about the effect of pollution on the angle stock , which be vital for our rural life . angle be a very important sport that we should be protect , include by make sure our waterway be clean . a key way to know if our waterway be clean be that the aquatic life come back . club in my constituency would really benefit from the change and protection I have mention . I would like to see they introduce and I hope that the Secretary of State will change his mind and adopt something similar to my amendment . the Government can feel free to take credit and pretend it be their amendment or change , but I would really like to see those change bring forward . unfortunately , my two amendment be not accept , but I will continue to press for they , Lib Dem style , at any opportunity I can possibly find , because I believe that they would be good for the UK and for our waterway . I hope the Government will look seriously again at protect water sport . I would be delighted to work with they or any party to practically develop the legislative step need for that to happen . first , I should declare an interest : I have close relative work in the water sector , although in science rather than in the water industry . I rise to speak in favour of the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and other Ministers . our river have suffer from serious sewage pollution over many year and I be pleased the Government be now take action to address this terrible problem . I want to discuss the nature of the action and to raise some important constituency matter . as we have hear this afternoon , for far too long water company have ignore resident ' concern and continue to pump sewage into our river , lake and sea . reading be particularly badly affected because it be downstream of many of the pumping outlet station far up the Thames , as colleague from the Thames valley area have hint at . I strongly support the measure take in the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Act , which tackle the issue . the legislation receive Royal Assent on 24 February , and introduce tough new penalty , include imprisonment for water company executive when company fail to co - operate or when they obstruct investigation . notably , it also ban bonus for ceo and senior leader within such company unless high environmental standard be meet , consumer be protect and the company be financially resilient . the Act ensure that each emergency sewage overflow outlet be independently monitor , which be an important step forward . that will make it quick and easy for regulator to investigate and punish wrongdoing . the measure will increase transparency by require water company to publish real - time datum for all emergency overflow in England — again , a clear and important step forward . we hear early — my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) from the Select Committee mention further detail — that the Government have commission the Cunliffe review , which be another important step forward in tackle these problem . it will look in much great detail at how company be hold to account for non - compliance and at a number of other matter . I be conscious of time , but I would like to raise some local example of sewage pollution and other matter relate to waterway in the read area . I have see — as I speak about during the debate on the water Bill — some appalling incident of sewage pollution in my area , include see a tributary of the Thames turn a lurid green after a sewage incident in Hampshire , which feed into Foudry brook , which be a tributary of the Kennet , which ultimately flow into the Thames . on Friday , I will be test the water quality in Christchurch harbour because we need a conservation policy there , as suggest by the Christchurch Harbour and Marine Society . I be also concerned about the River Stour in my constituency . do my hon . friend agree that the Environment Agency could set high standard for water quality and , in so do , help to establish the datum that show where area be fall short ? I be particularly concerned about the River Stour , but I know he too will have river that he be concerned about . I would of course like to see further work carry out by all agency . my hon . friend make a good point about the river in his constituency . in my own constituency , there be a number of river , include the Thames and the Kennet . many flow through heavily populate area and place where people enjoy walk by the river , and — as the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) mention — rowing , swimming , sailing and many other activity . I have also see the way that sewage pollution can interfere with wildlife . in one case , I see the stark and appalling contrast of visible pollution in the river — foam from sewage and other nitrate pollution — next to a kingfisher . it be sad to see the way that these beautiful river be pollute by appal outflow . like I , my hon . friend will receive hundred of email and bit of correspondence on the performance of Thames Water . do he agree that that company in particular should take the Act as if they be be put on notice and that further action may follow if necessary to improve standard ? my hon . friend be right on cue and entice I to the next area I want to talk about , which be the general problem with Thames Water . those of we who represent constituency in the Thames Water area know that it be an appalling company . I do not want to criticise individual member of staff — the head office be in my constituency and many local people work hard there — but , in my experience , the company be poorly manage . I be go to mention a number of other incident , include two where water be cut off to large part of reading ' s suburb and where resident be still wait for compensation . I have have to write to Ofwat to ask it to investigate . I have have other incident , include the creation of a sinkhole due to a water leak , which have cause severe distress to resident ; I appreciate that that be not sewage , but it be part of the wide water provision network , so I hope that it be in the scope . in this case , resident be have to wait for concrete to be pump into the chalk in order for the road next to their home to be stabilise . I have see a series of wide problem with flooding and other concern about watercourse not be maintain . will my hon . friend give way ? of course . order . the time limit have be reach . the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) ought to have conclude his remark rather than take another intervention from the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) . we welcome the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , but we urge the Government to go far , particularly with regard to the protection of chalk stream . that be very personal to I and to many member across the House . I have campaign for many year to stop the dumping of raw sewage and for the well protection of our chalk stream , alongside campaign organisation , the Cam Valley Forum , and the many local river action group for the Mel , the Granta , the Shep , the Rhee , the Wilbraham , the Orwell and the Cherry Hinton brook . some progress have be make locally , with the hard - won award of a bathing water designation for the Sheep ' s Green section of the River Cam . that have secure much - need financing for clean - up action by Anglian Water of the small sewage treatment work upstream in Haslingfield . however , not all our chalk stream can have bathe water designation as a mechanism of protection , especially when they have to struggle and suffer with overwhelmed small sewage treatment work as a result of unprecedented housing growth and development in our area . that be why I bemoan the fact that the 2025 Act and the Planning and Infrastructure Bill do not get rid of the damaging automatic right to connect for developer , which mean that water company can not say whether they have the capacity to manage sewage in the area . my hon . friend talk about overwhelmed sewage work . the Markyate sewage work in my constituency have now have 3 , 000 hour of non - stop overflow , include sewage , which enter our precious chalk stream . do she agree that that be why it be so important that we have blue flag status to increase the responsibility and accountability of water company , which should not take our chalk stream for grant ? I agree . in my South Cambridgeshire constituency alone , river and stream be pollute by sewage 728 time in 2024 , last over 9 , 700 hour . that be the disgraceful legacy of the last Conservative Government . we need the protection that my hon . friend mention . we bemoan the fact that the Secretary of State and the Government get rid of the chalk stream recovery pack . that be distress to all those who care for chalk stream , and it be why we need practical measure such as the blue flag status , and for river and chalk stream in a blue flag corridor and water catchment to have the protection they need . that would give the public confidence in water quality and would enable regular water testing , biodiversity check and well community involvement , boost transparency . statistic publish last week show that Welsh Water — the supposedly not - for - profit Welsh water company — have the high number of sewage discharge across the entire UK , despite charge some of the high price for its water , in a country that have some of the low income in the UK . do my hon . friend agree that the Welsh Government must stop let Welsh Water off the hook ? it must take responsibility for its action . my hon . friend make such a compelling argument for the protection and accountability that be need in Wales . we need well protection for our chalk stream , which be unique habitat for nature . the Liberal Democrats will continue lead the fight against this sewage scandal . we will continue stand up for nature , our river and our chalk stream , so that everyone — we and generation to come — can enjoy they . the future of our river , lake and sea could not be more important , not just for we but for future generation , but after 14 year of conservative failure to act — for a time , prop up by the Liberal Democrats — their future be look lose at sea . I be proud that take action to clean up our river , lake and sea and to hold fail water boss to account through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 be one of the first action take by our new Labour Government , and I be proud to serve on the Bill Committee . I know the issue be hugely important to fellow resident across my Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency . locally , we care deeply about our litter , our environment and the future that we be forge for the next generation . walk along the River Frome or the Bradley brook should not only be safe and healthy , but enjoyable for all . our new Labour Government inherit a break water system , with record level of sewage be pump into our waterway in town , village and city across the country and along our glorious coastline . that have impact health , tourism and how we see our place — decline and unloved by the previous Government , as profit only grow . this Labour Government be take action and will continue to do so to turn the tide . I find it remarkable how little be actually do — not talk about , but do — when the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats be in government together , yet how willing they be to claim credit for the action take by this new Labour Government , while confusingly seem to say that not very much be be do . they can not have it both way . our Water ( Special Measures ) Act have introduce new power to ban the payment of unfair bonus to water boss who fail to protect our environment , and to bring tough criminal charge against they personally if they break the law . the work of our dedicated Ministers have help to open up over £ 100 billion of private sector investment to upgrade crumble sewerage infrastructure . on top of all that , I be glad to hear the Secretary of State announce last autumn an independent water commission . the Cunliffe commission be the large review of the water sector since privatisation . it be worth mention that anyone can contribute their view to the commission until 11 . 59 pm tonight , include people at home and member of the party on the Opposition Benches — include the Liberal Democrats . indeed . listen , acting and thinking of future generation : this be clearly a new government . our plan for change will build the infrastructure that Britain need to clean up our river , lake and sea for good , and I look forward to support that every step of the way . I thank the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for bring this important debate to the House . as the Secretary of State say , we be all in furious agreement that the condition of our river , lake and sea be an absolute scandal . it would be remiss of I not to point out that the problem be not just due to sewage , as the Minister know . as colleague have mention , agricultural pollution be a key factor in the condition of our river , lake and sea , and we can not fix the problem without address both sewage and agricultural pollution together . however , today ' s subject be sewage , so I will focus on that . turn to the motion before we , I be not against introduce a blue flag system for river and stream , but that be just tinker around the edge of a broken system . a shortage of flag and target be not the problem . last year , the Environment Agency give the water company a collective target of a 40 % reduction in sewage incident , but what do we have ? a 30 % increase . monitoring and target be not enough if there be no meaningful action or sanction . I understand that the water company have well over 1 , 000 criminal conviction between they — some company have over 100 conviction — but they be still get away with it . at the same time , bill be go through the roof by an average of over 20 % in a single year , and by even more for rural constituent , include mine . it be the bill payer , not the shareholder , who be pay the price . customer bill provide an average of 35 % of company revenue to pay the financial cost — the dividend to shareholder and the interest on loan — of the privatised water and sewerage company in England and Wales . in the case of Scottish Water , a publicly own company that may have other problem , those cost amount to just 8 % of revenue from consumer bill . in my constituency , raw sewage discharge increase by 75 % in 2023 , yet there be plan to raise bill by 32 % in the next five year . it be clear that the british public be be rip off . do the hon . Member agree that while well regulation and investment rule may fix some of the issue , the only way to solve the whole problem be to bring the water supply back into public ownership ? I completely agree . that be precisely the thrust of my argument . over the last three decade , shareholder have extract £ 83 billion in dividend . they have invest effectively less than nothing , because the share capital and retain earning in those company be now low than they be at the time of privatisation . the capital investment have be take out of customer bill , yet customer be still pay through the nose . a professor at the University of Greenwich — I have his report here — have show that the cost of the investment need in the water industry would be much low under public ownership than under private ownership . it be clear that , ultimately , public ownership be the only way to gain the control need to ensure that this essential public utility work for the public benefit , yet the Labour party be unfortunately not willing to consider it . the Government have the power to bring fail company into special administration via the High Court , but during the passage of the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , the Minister say : " special administration must be a last resort , as it have significant consequence for a company ' s investor . " – – [ Official Report , Water ( Special Measures ) Public Bill Committee , 14 January 2025 ; c . 96 . ] that speak volume about who the Government think our water industry be for . it be not for those so - call investor — actually extractor — who have take out so many dividend pay for by debt while neglect our infrastructure and kill our waterway with sewage . there should be significant consequence for they . the people of this country — the british people — do not want their water to be investable : they want it to be clean , reliable , affordable and in public hand . public ownership be the key element of the solution to the sewage scandal . as hard as it may be to believe , on Saturday I go surf at gwithian beach — well know to the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) — in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle . I be invite to surf with the Wave Project , which be a national programme offer child with mental health challenge the chance to use the power of the ocean to lift spirit , build their confidence and chase away some demon . it be an incredibly rewarding experience overall , even for someone whose surfing skill be last on show more than 30 year ago . it be really sad that when we arrive I be inform that the only place we could use be on the western edge of the beach ; the rest of the beach be too polluted with sewage . across the central and western area of Cornwall , 10 % of all the Wave Project ' s session have to be cancel due to sewage pollution . all along the north coast of my constituency , in Portreath , Porthtowan , Perranporth and St Agnes , which be the location of the head office of Surfers Against Sewage , we be regularly polluted . accord to the House of Commons Library , in 2024 there be 142 spill at Portreath , last more than 2 , 500 hour . in total , there be 975 spill last year in my constituency , last for an estimate 8 , 847 hour . those number be shocking to I and to my constituent , who have a right to clean bathing water and a safe natural environment . however , I be delighted that this Government be take action through new , tough penalty for water executive , a ban on bonus for senior leadership fail to meet standard , mandatory monitoring and reporting , and a model for cost recovery to well resource the Environment Agency , which have its funding slash under the Tories . although many discharge still go unpunished , we be act to clean up the Conservatives ' foul , stink mess while the Liberal Democrats carp from the sideline , make cheap but transparent pre - local election political point and state the blindingly obvious as though it be some sort of political revelation , with the indignation of a party that have never have to worry about actually make Government policy . it be under this Labour Government that the Conservatives ' sewage scandal will end . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for open this debate for the Liberal Democrats , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be an office holder in the all - party parliamentary water group . it be one day short of nine month since the first Prime Minister ' s Question Time of this Parliament . on that day , it be my privilege to pose the first question to the Prime Minister , and I ask he about the level of sewage be pump by Thames Water into the River Evenlode in my constituency . he say that " customer should not pay the price for mismanagement by water company " , and add that " it fall to this Government … to fix the mess of that failure . " — [ Official Report , 24 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 661 . ] however , since that date , Thames Water have pump sewage into the Evenlode for a further 1 , 050 hour , while hike bill for my constituent by over 30 % on 1 April . as such , I regret that I can not see that the plan put forward by the Government be yet work . I urge they to work with we Liberal Democrats to go far and fast . the problem be that pump sewage into our river and waterway be now routine — indeed , it be so routine that it happen even when there have be no excess rainwater or storm . on the River Ray , for example , there be seven and a half hour of sewage - spill on 9 April . there be no rain that day , and neither have there be any in the previous week . this so - call dry spilling show that the regulatory arrangement be a joke . my constituent be shock to learn from Lib Dem freedom of information request that Ofwat have not issue a single fine to water company for their management of sewage treatment since 2021 . in the past year , I have join local resident and campaigner to participate in citizen science project with the Evenlode Catchment Partnership and RiverWatch to look at the quality of our water . on every measure , the Rivers Evenlode , Ray and Cherwell be severely contaminate . at the same time , Thames Water be fail its domestic customer in my constituency . these include Mark Hamilton in Garden City , Kidlington , who purchase pump to try to keep sewage out of his and his elderly neighbour ' s home , but they be not enough ; Colin Fletcher in Bladon , who have sewage flood into his garden in September and still await a repair from Thames Water ; Ros Frangopoulus in Chesterton , who see sewage lap against her house wall and be leave with faece and toilet paper in her garden when the water recede ; and Martin Johnson in Yarnton , who could not use his toilet as it routinely overflow into his home with sewage and now have a tanker station next to his house , loudly pump 24 / 7 while Thames Water take month to agree a sewer repair . in short , we have a company that pollute our river and waterway and the home and garden of its customer , while all the time reward its executive handsomely and spend an increase share of billpayer ' money to service excessive debt . the Prime Minister tell I that his Government would fix this mess , but I regret that the Water ( Special Measures ) Act do not go nearly far enough . we need a powerful , effective and public - interested clean water authority to clean up the water company ' act . I thank the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for bring this debate to the House . I think it might be helpful to give some context to the debate ; it do not start with the last Conservative Government ' s 14 year of failure , which we have hear so much about . I want to talk about the 1980 , when — grip by ideological fervour rather than the national interest — the Thatcher and Major Governments set off on a sale binge of our strategic asset and infrastructure . all these year later , that have leave we almost uniquely expose among the G7 to global event . only two week ago , this Government recall Parliament to save British Steel , a vital strategic asset — not just for our economy , but for our security and defence . the Conservatives fragment British Rail , which this Government be now take back into public control piece by piece . most relevant to today ' s debate , they privatise our water , not into a market of compete firm but into private monopoly , shield from scrutiny and drive by dividend . in sell off the family silver , those government wreak havoc on our public service . to be generous to they , at least they have a vision , which be more than can be say about the last 14 year of the Conservatives . for those 14 year , the Conservatives be asleep at the wheel , and sadly for five of those year , the Lib Dems be snore away quite happily in the passenger seat . while raw sewage pour into our river , the Lib Dems and the Conservatives allow cash to pour into the pocket of the wealthy through shareholder payout and executive bonus . while the Environment Agency cry out for resource , the Conservatives and the Lib Dems cut its funding by half . that be into the River Wye , the River Etherow , the River Noe , the River Derwent and Blackbrook , and equate to a sewage spill every five hour . that be a damn indictment of the failure of successive government . as a consequence , just before the election , we in High Peak see sewage pump into our river 1 , 653 time . by contrast , this Labour Government have pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , which introduce criminal liability for company executive who obstruct investigation . we have ban their bonus , and we have give regulator the power to recover the cost of enforcement , ensure that polluter , not taxpayer , foot the bill . we have mandate real - time public reporting of sewage spill . that be only the start . we know that wide reform be need , and that be why we have launch the large review of the water sector since privatisation . we know the size of the challenge to halt the decline , and we be the only party with a serious plan to do so . in West Dorset , we be proud of our natural environment , but that pride be undermine by the relentless dumping of raw sewage into our waterway . in 2024 , there be 4 , 196 sewage spill in West Dorset . across our river and coastline , that add up to more than 48 , 000 hour of raw sewage discharge . in 2019 , just four of the 36 monitored water body in West Dorset be rate as have a good ecological status . while that all happen , water company executive pay themselves £ 51 million in pay and bonus , and it be our community who pay the price . West Dorset ' s economy rely heavily on tourism . in 2022 , tourism bring in more than £ 300 million to our local area , support more than 5 , 200 job . chichester harbour in my constituency be the large recreational boat harbour in Europe , but the damage be do to its ecosystem be stark . a recent study by the Clean Harbours Partnership find 105 pharmaceutical , pesticide and recreational drug in the water , with the amount go up 100 time directly after a sewage spill . do my hon . friend agree that tourism be incredibly important for area such as his and mine , and that therefore we must have clean water ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . as I say , those 5 , 200 job in West Dorset represent hundred of family who depend on visitor choose to come to Lyme Regis , West Bay , Burton Bradstock , Abbotsbury and any of the other numerous beautiful town and village that we have . how can those visitor do that with confidence when there be a real risk that they will arrive to find sewage warning at the beach , and when resident and tourist alike have to check an app to see whether the water be safe to swim in ? in West Dorset , we be lucky to have some of the UK ' s rare chalk stream . some have be mention already , and we have the River Piddle , the River Frome , Wraxall brook and the West Compton stream . they be home to delicate ecosystem and specie such as the Atlantic salmon , which be in worrying decline . as it stand , even when new home be build near these river , water company do not have to be formally consult . make water company statutory consultee on new housing development be basic common sense . it would mean proper planning , proper accountability and the chance to avoid even more pressure on an already fail network . the Liberal Democrats have be clear : we want strong rule and tough enforcement , and we want water company to take responsibility and reinvest in the community they have neglect . we be call for the introduction of the blue flag status for river and chalk stream , just as we have it for our good beach . that would mean clear standard of cleanliness , proper testing and consequence when company fall short . it would also help the public to understand when a river be clean and safe , and not just when it have be test . we also welcome the speed ticket fine that the Government have introduce , with automatic penalty when water company break the rule , but those fine need to be ringfence to go straight back into the community affect , such as in West Dorset , to fix the infrastructure , restore habitat and protect the public . we need action , we need proper regulation and we need a Government who will support rural community . I thank the Secretary of State for his opening remark and the speed with which our Government be implement these vital change . it be welcome to have an opportunity to speak again on an issue that matter to I and my constituent in North West Leicestershire . sewage and pollution feature in many discussion on the doorstep , and this issue be the subject of one of my personal pledge to my community . it will continue to be so until the improvement from the Water ( Special Measures ) Act be feel . in my community , I regularly check in with those who have be adversely affect by sewage outflow , and I know how much it impact on they day to day . I also know how long it have take for some of the issue to be resolve . for example , a sewage - relate case in my constituency recently end with Severn Trent offer an enforcement undertaking and give the Trent Rivers Trust £ 600 , 000 . that will support the restoration of the habitat and the natural environment , but it take two year to reach an outcome from such a significant spill — which be not really surprising , because on the watch of the coalition Government the Environment Agency ' s budget have be cut in half since 2010 , leave the agency without the necessary tool and funding to fight the skyrocket sewage discharge . my constituent be angry , and they have every right to be . I have say this before in the House , and I will say it again . in 2023 , sewage pour into our waterway in North West Leicestershire for 15 , 000 hour — a 54 % increase on the previous year . what a legacy ; and still the Liberal Democrats vote against the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , which will provide the large investment in water infrastructure in history , ban unfair bonus to pollute water boss , and help to clean up our river , lake and sea . labour be the party that be fix this mess . I be proud to serve on the Committee consider the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill and even prouder to vote for the Bill — and it be just the start . our government commission Sir Jon Cunliffe to undertake a review of the water sector , and if member be quick , they can get their response in by tonight . in a statement that he make after be ask to undertake the review , Sir Jon say that in his first job in the civil service , 45 year ago , he have work on the issue of the industrial pollution of water , at a time when the UK be generally regard as " the dirty man of Europe " . I be a neighbour of my hon . friend . she will know that Severn Trent receive an £ 18 million reward for the quality of its PR19 plan , but in its " Water Quality Report 2025 " , Surfers Against Sewage say that it fail to meet its target every year in that period . despite that , it have be award £ 93 million for its PR24 plan . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital for Severn Trent , which serve both our constituency , to be hold to account properly in the PR24 period ? as my hon . Friend say , Severn Trent serve both our community , and yes , it must do its bit to clean up our waterway . I be a child of the 1980 , although I know my hon . friend can not believe that . I grow up by the seaside , and I remember the impact that our polluted sea have on our local community . I see the change that a clean - up made , but we be back to that place again , where family can not enjoy the seaside or the waterway . sadly , after 14 year our community be devastate by the quality of their water . I be therefore proud to vote for a Bill that would enable criminal charge to be make against persistent lawbreaker and introduce severe and automatic fine for offence . I be proud to vote for the independent monitoring of every outlet , ensure that there would be an unprecedented level of transparency , so that the public could hold water company boss to account . that be the difference that a Labour Government can make , and I will support our amendment . I be pleased to be able to bring the House ' s attention to my constituent ' concern about the continue discharge of raw sewage into our local sea and other body of water . in my constituency , we see 529 such discharge in 2024 from just 14 storm overflow point . these incident continue for a combine duration of over 6 , 200 hour . that be simply not acceptable . it pose a serious threat not only to public health and the environment but to our local tourism and marine economy , on which so many of my constituent depend . we must act decisively to improve our age water infrastructure , enforce strict regulation and demand transparency from our water company , from Ofwat and from the Environment Agency . the hon . Lady have mention Ofwat . last August , it recommend penalty for four water company amount to £ 168 million , but so far it have not collect one penny . do she agree that Ofwat need to be scrap ? I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s diagnosis , but I do agree that the fine need to be collect and distribute . the other issue that have be identify in my constituency — I imagine that they be wide issue , too — be illegal misconnection and cowboy builder , which we must crack down on . without address those issue , we will not get the result that we need , and constituent need to know what be be do to stop they . since be elect , I have have constructive engagement with Southern Water and the Environment Agency ' s local team and head office . have visit Ford wastewater treatment work and do a shift with the misconnection team in Bognor Regis , I know that work be be do to upgrade the network , but this issue require a strategic , cross - agency approach — one that consider the serious impact of the Government ' s continue pursuit of house building on our floodplain on flood resilience and sewage discharge . when school in my constituency be take child to the beach and be tell that they can not swim in the sea , it be not just disappointing ; it be disgraceful . it be not the legacy that we want to leave for the next generation — we owe they well . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I be delighted to speak on the issue of how we can fix our broken water and sewerage sector , and get serious about clean up our river and lake . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for secure this debate . my constituency of Witney , in west Oxfordshire , have bear the brunt of the sewage scandal . many beautiful river flow through it , and the Thames bisect it . we have the Windrush and the Evenlode , Shell brook to the north , and the Ock to the south . they be all heavily and frequently polluted . I welcome the call from colleague to introduce a new blue flag status so that we can guarantee that a river be clean enough to swim in . that would help to restore people ' s confidence in swimming , and the bathing place in Witney would be a fantastic example . it be just north of early ' s mill , where generation of people have spend their summer swimming but no long do so . we know what a car crash our sewerage network be , thank to the many campaigner who have go to so much trouble in their own time , and often use their own money , to bring this issue to our attention . at the top of the star be WASP — Windrush Against Sewage Pollution — which be run by Professor Peter Hammond , Ash Smith , Vaughan Lewis and Geoff Tombs , who have work tirelessly for the last five year to highlight what have go wrong . I thank they and all the other citizen scientist in my constituency and beyond , who have do so much to bring this issue to national attention . we owe they all a huge debt of gratitude . I will focus on failure of regulation — specifically , Ofwat ' s failure . Ofwat be responsible for hold water company accountable against the term of their operating licence . DEFRA have oversight of Ofwat , set the policy framework and provide strategic guidance to Ofwat on key environmental and social policy . as many member have say , Ofwat be clearly fail on pollution . the Environment Agency ' s own datum show that Thames Water discharge raw sewage for almost 300 , 000 hour in 2024 — up by almost 50 % on the 196 , 000 hour in 2023 . that be well know . ofwat be also fail to enforce financial viability . just like every other water company in the country , Thames Water , which serve my constituency , have to have two investment grade credit rating , but it have not do so for nearly a year . it have be beat with limp celery , but that be about it . it have £ 19 billion of debt and be quite possibly head towards £ 23 billion of debt , and it have cash flow of just £ 1 . 2 billion . that obviously make no financial sense , yet Thames Water be allow to breach the rule with impunity . I have no doubt that other water company , and company in other sector , take note of what Thames Water have be allow to do and say , " we , too , can cross that line in water and other regulated sector . " how be that good news ? it introduce a moral hazard that do enormous damage to our country . who be ultimately pay the cost of all this debt , and the enormous interest and advisory fee that go with it ? of course , it be the bill payer . ofwat fail to provide value for money . as per the Water Industry Act 1991 , it have a statutory duty " to protect the interest of consumer " and " to promote economy and efficiency " on the part of water company . as WASP ' s recently publish note on water company ' capital project cost state , the cost that company be propose be extraordinary . in some case , they be almost an order of magnitude high than those in comparator company in country such as the USA and Denmark . why be this , and why be it be allow to happen ? why be our cost so much great ? be it because our regulatory capital value pricing model be base on asset value , and therefore give an incentive to water company to boost their asset basis ? they do this through extraordinarily long depreciation period for network asset such as pipe , which be instal 50 year ago , but somehow have depreciation period of 100 year and be leak like sieve . it also give they an incentive to pour really expensive concrete . why be it that something build over here cost eight time the price in Denmark ? why have , say , the Oxford sewage treatment work go from £ 40 million to more than £ 400 million in plan spend in the last four year ? what sort of inflation be that ? ofwat fail to provide fair pricing . water company have a requirement to demonstrate fairness , transparency and affordability to customer , which , again , Ofwat be suppose to uphold . water company have be allow to hike bill this year — in the case of Thames Water , by 31 % , although some of my constituent have come to I and say they have receive increase of 50 % , 70 % or even more than 90 % — and what be bill payer get for that ? this be not fair when more than a quarter of the bill in Thames Water ' s case be just pay the interest — not pay down the debt , but just pay the interest . again , Ofwat be continue to allow the pocket of water company creditor to be line at the expense of ordinary household . ofwat fail to be awake . it have a responsibility — bear with I on this one — for track who be the ultimate controller of the water company . that should be pretty simple ; there be not many of they . in Thames Water ' s case , it be take wilful ignorance to an extreme of utterly determined ignorance . last May , Thames Water ' s large shareholder , OMERS , write its stake in Thames Water down to zero and pull its director off the board . this have be widely report in the press — it be not secret — yet I get a letter from Ofwat last month confirm that it believe OMERS be still the ultimate controller of the company . why be Ofwat ignore this , and why do it matter ? be the ultimate controller of the company mean it have certain responsibility . those responsibility be just be ignore , and Ofwat , which be exactly what be suppose to be hold the company to account , be hide under a stone somewhere . it need to stop do this . my hon . Friend say that Ofwat have fail to regulate the water system effectively , and be fail on environmental , public health and financial interest . in my constituency , Wessex Water leak sewage for over 400 , 000 hour last year alone . do he agree that the water regulator should be replace with a clean water authority , which would bring together the environmental and financial regulation of water company ? I thank my hon . friend , and , yes , I absolutely do . ofwat be also fail to innovate . it appear to do little , if anything , to push company to do this . this be so critical because , if we be go to increase capacity in sewage treatment work , there be many well way of do so . there be a host of new technology out there from leak detection , pipeline monitoring and predictive maintenance equipment to trenchless pipe repair and pressure management technology . yet I have hear from firm in my constituency that it be easy to sell sewer technology solution in the US and Europe than in the UK . this be where the issue of the dire state of water company ' finance and the sewage scandal intersect , because company can not make basic repair , let alone properly innovate and improve , when so much of their revenue be go straight out of the door in interest payment . the previous Government have a lot to answer for . it be on their watch that dump sewage in our river and lake reach record level , as water company pile up billion in debt . all the while , boss reward themselves with generous bonus for mismanagement and failure on so many level . many people who work so hard in those company suffer under that mismanagement . there be only so much point in look backwards . what I be appal by be that the new Government , who come into power with promise to get tough with the water company and sort out the scandal , have so far show themselves to be about as tough as Ofwat . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act — by the way , I say to the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) that it be not vote on by we — be , well , just about nothing . Government Members and Conservative Members reject a whole host of basic common sense step , propose as amendment , which could have make the legislation genuinely impactful . I will give some example . order . I would just like to suggest that the hon . Gentleman bring his remark to a close rather than give we some example , because we want to hear from the Minister . he have 30 second at most . I will make that three . thank you very much , and over to you . over to she . [ laughter . ] I call the Minister . thank you so much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and can I say that you be do an incredibly awesome job in the Chair ? I would like to thank — if I can call he this — my hon . friend , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for bring forward this debate from the Liberal Democrats . I be really glad to have this opportunity to close this important debate . I pay tribute , if I may , to all environmental group , all citizen scientist , and all those involve in campaign on this important issue up and down the country . I would also like to pay tribute to and thank the people who work in the water industry ; the people who have to go out and deal with sewage overflow , work on the frontline and sometimes face appalling level of abuse for do the job they do . I welcome the engagement we have have from across the House on the Independent Water Commission . as we have hear , the sewage spill into our river , lake and sea be a national disgrace . it be the result of year of under - investment by the Conservatives . they leave we with crumble water infrastructure and a broken water system . instead of fix our water system , they let water company use customer ' money to pay out unjustified bonus to their pollute boss and shareholder . we will never let that happen . this Labour Government be turn the tide on sewage once and for all . those be not just word . in this debate , we set out exactly how we will do that . within day of come to office , we ringfence money earmark for investment in water infrastructure so it can not be divert for bonus or dividend . where the money be not spend , it will be return to customer . the Minister will remember that I recently raise with she the concern of Staffordshire Wildlife Trust regard the fine issue to Severn Trent Water in 2024 for its huge sewage leak in Strongford in my constituency . do she agree with I that the Water ( Special Measures ) Act will make water company pay for the damage they have cause , and that it be just the start of this Government ' s work to clean up our waterway ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . she be quite right : the Water ( Special Measures ) Act be a landmark piece of legislation , but it be just the start of what we want to achieve . it will give Ofwat new power to ban unfair bonus . it will introduce strict penalty , include imprisonment . it will enable the regulator to impose automatic and severe fine for wrongdoing , and it will involve cost recovery and the mandatory reporting of emergency overflow . but , Madam Deputy Speaker , we do not just want to give you that ; we be go to give you so much more — more and more . we be go to go even far with the Independent Water Commission , because , as we hear from hon . member across the House , that be not the extent of the Government ' s ambition . Sir Jon Cunliffe be currently undertake the big review of the water sector since privatisation . he will be make recommendation to deliver long - term benefit , restore water body to good health , provide a reliable and efficient supply of water in a change climate , and , ultimately , serve both customer and the environment . the independent commission will look to reset the water industry and tackle systemic issue to fundamentally transform the sector . the recommendation will form the basis of further legislation — I be already anticipate the amendment from the Liberal Democrats — to attract the long - term investment to clean up our river , lake and sea for good . in addition to such measure , Ofwat have announce £ 104 billion of private sector investment in the water sector over the next five year to build and upgrade water infrastructure in every region of the country , cut sewage spill , improve water quality and give we a reliable future water supply . it will also create ten of thousand of job around the country , help we to build our 1 . 5 million home , support major infrastructure project and power new industry . this be regional economic growth in action — the cornerstone of our plan for change . I turn now to the contribution from my hon . friend . my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , who be a champion in her community and have raise with I her concern around both flooding and water pollution , highlight the importance of the " polluter pay " principle and how that money can be return through to the Environment Agency . of course , I share her love of suds . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) for her work on the Water ( Special Measures ) Act and for the kind and persistent way she have lobby I about the River Wye — she always lobby so gently , Madam Deputy Speaker , with a smile on her face every time she see I . that be why I be so pleased that DEFRA and the Welsh Government be able to give £ 1 million for research to understand pollution and the other pressure and to develop a plan to tackle the issue in the Wye catchment . my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who be somewhere in the Chamber — [ interruption . ] there he be ! he be test my eyesight this evening . the Minister for Nature , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , will be happy to visit his constituency to look at all the work he be do up there to clean up in his area . the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) be sadly not in her place — I ' m right here ! oh , there she be . again , this be test my eyesight — it be confuse I . I hope that the hon . Lady have see and welcome the change we be introduce around bathing water and the definition of a bather , and how that definition could also people involve in water sport . that be something she might be interested in . will the Minister give way ? I will not , only because I have just three minute leave . I thank my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) again for his support of the Water ( Special Measures ) Act and the commission , and for highlight the impact that pollution have on wildlife and the importance of clean up our river . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) , too , for her support for the Act . she be right to highlight the awful inheritance we receive and the action we have take . my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) talk about the Wave Project , which provide mental health support . I be really keen to hear about that project , and I commend everyone involve for their work . it sound like a wonderful — [ hon . member : " he ' s not here ; he can ' t hear you ! " ] he will hear I by osmosis . my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) highlight that cut have consequence , and indeed they do . slash the Environment Agency ' s budget by half certainly have have a consequence . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) again for her work and support on the Water ( Special Measures ) Act and for champion those clean up our water . of course , I also love be by the seaside , which be why I have to say how delighted I be that our mayoral candidate for Hull and East Yorkshire be champion a plan to provide free bus service to coastal area during the summer holiday so that people can enjoy the countryside — vote labour . we have reset the water sector . we be stop the sewage scandal and transform the water industry from one of decline to one of opportunity . we be seize the opportunity to restore national pride in our river , lake and sea and to secure a reliable water future supply for all . we be deliver our plan for change to create a well future for our country . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Bobby Dean Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Gregor Poynton Steve Race Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 77 , Noes 302 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Gregor Poynton Steve Race Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Christian Wakeford Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean will Forster the House divide : Ayes 301 , Noes 69 . question accordingly agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House recognise that the Government inherit a break water system , with record level of sewage be pump into waterway ; welcome the Government ' s rapid delivery of its promise to put water company under tough special measure through the landmark Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which have introduce new power to ban the payment of unfair bonus to water boss who fail to protect the environment and to bring tough criminal charge against they if they break the law ; support the Government ' s work to secure over £ 100 billion of private sector investment to upgrade the crumble sewage infrastructure ; and back the large review of the water sector since privatisation , aim at tackle inherit systemic issue in order to clean up UK river , lake and sea for good . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at Prime Minister ' s question early , the Leader of the opposition say that Anas Sarwar , the Scottish Labour leader " be whip his msp to get male rapist into woman ' s prison " . that be categorically and utterly untrue . scottish Labour msp repeatedly call for the Scottish Government to ensure the safety of woman prisoner . please can you advise I how I can ensure that the Leader of the Opposition correct the record and withdraw this disgraceful slur ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . he will know that member be responsible for the accuracy of their remark in this Chamber . he have none the less raise his concern and I be sure they will have be hear on the Opposition Benches . if the Leader of the Opposition wish to correct the record , there be mechanism available for she to do so . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Fair Dealing Obligations ( Pigs ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 March , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , legal aid and advice that the draft legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 ( legal aid : Domestic Abuse ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 March , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Petition - Windsor Post Office far to my online petition , which receive 1 , 594 signature , I rise to present this paper petition on behalf of the resident of Windsor . I thank everybody who sign my petition to save Windsor post office , and in particular my constituent Sue Pendry for her help and campaign on this issue . while progress on a franchising deal be promise , it be subject to Government funding and may yet see the branch move up to a mile away . Windsor can not afford to lose this busy branch when the town centre already face jack - up parking charge , increase business taxis and , frankly , the poor state of the public realm . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the Post Office to ensure that the Peascod Street branch of the Post Office in central Windsor remain open . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Windsor , declare that the popular Peascod Street branch of the Post Office in central Windsor have be earmark for potential closure , which would take away vital mail , travel , driving , identity and money service from the town centre ; note that this be at a time when the town centre face multiple challenge , include increase car parking charge , the state of the public realm and increase business taxis ; and further note that 1 , 402 people have sign an online petition on this matter . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the Post Office to ensure that the Peascod Street branch of the Post Office in central Windsor remain open . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003063 ] Pension Funds Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) pension fund hold not just financial value but moral weight . how we treat our pensioner , and how we invest in the future of the hard - work people of this country , say everything about the kind of society we be . I want to bring to the House ' s attention one of the most concern injustice face by thousand of former HSBC employee , particularly woman : the use of an outdated , punitive policy know as pension clawback . I support the Midland Clawback Campaign , which seek justice for the 51 , 000 affect member of the Midland bank pension scheme , now administer by HSBC , who be mislead about the nature of their retirement income and be be short - change as a result . unlike most other institution , which phase out clawback in the 1980 , HSBC continue to enforce it in its most punitive form . clawback be originally introduce in 1948 to offset national insurance cost when the state pension be create . Midland bank introduce clawback to its pension scheme in 1975 as a cost - save measure . former employee be tell that they would receive a define - benefit pension at two third of their final salary , in addition to their state pension . instead , when they reach state pension age , HSBC begin deduct a portion of their occupational pension , call it a " state deduction " . I have a constituent who have work for 44 year at Midland bank and HSBC . they be promise a pension of two third of their final salary , but they now face a 16 % cut — that be over £ 1 , 700 per annum — because of the so - call state deduction . they be never tell that the scheme be integrate , and even private pension review fail to explain it . do the hon . Member agree that that lack of transparency be unacceptable and that worker like my constituent deserve answer ? I fully agree . the term itself be misleading . the money be not be take by the state ; it actually go back to HSBC . have it be label properly , as an integrated pension deduction , many people would have ask question much early . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate . Sue , a constituent of mine , be try to obtain her full hsbc pension , but because of a clawback deduction by her former employer that have no alignment with the salary she earn , she be lose out on £ 244 each month . that be unfair and have plunge many pensioner — primarily woman — into poverty . do my hon . friend agree that the Minister must seriously consider what support can be provide for people like Sue , who have be leave with significant financial difficulty ? absolutely . I will ask the Minister to take action later in my remark . my constituent Phil and Ann have contact I about the so - call clawback policy , which would see they lose about £ 2 , 000 a year from their pension when they reach state pension age . they , like many former employee , believe that this be an unfair and morally questionable approach . do the hon . Lady agree that that can not be the right approach and that it must be reconsider ? yes . the hon . Member make a good point . the lack of transparency allow this policy to persist under the radar . the formula use be regressive and unfair . for a start , the deduction be base on the full state pension rate one year before retirement , not on salary or actual state pension receive . it be then divide by 80 and multiply by year work . the result ? the long someone work and the less they earn , the more they lose . that injustice fall heavy on woman . former Midland bank and HSBC worker who have a define - benefit pension see deduction from their pension entitlement at state pension age , to take account of the payment of the state pension . those deduction have no link to salary or pension receive . lower - earn staff member , mostly woman , be particularly affect , include my constituent Angela Blockwell . do the hon . Member agree that that inequality must finally be recognise and that pension clawback must be abolish for all ? yes , the practice be a relic from the past and need to be abolish . woman have historically occupy lower - pay role at Midland bank and HSBC . they have take career break to care for child or elderly parent , or have be place on new contract with clawback attach — often without be tell the implication for their pension right . HSBC claim that there be no discrimination because the policy apply to all , but indirect discrimination be define as a policy that appear neutral but disproportionately harm a particular group . a female constituent of mine who have work for HSBC UK for over 35 year have see her pension reduce by approximately £ 850 a year because of a clawback clause that she be never properly inform about when she join the bank ' s define - benefit scheme . do the hon . Member agree that HSBC need to engage properly with the affected employee ? I thank the hon . member for that valuable point . I have a message for HSBC later in my remark . campaigner have present robust evidence , include research by the University of Exeter , show the disproportionate impact on woman and low - pay staff . one of the recommendation in the University of Exeter report be for policymaker — we — to consider the suitability of the equal pay provision that have not be available to member of the post - 1974 Midland bank pension scheme , despite evidence of the disproportionate impact on woman . when campaigner turn to the Equality and Human Rights Commission , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Government Equalities Office , they be pass from pillar to post . no one take responsibility ; no one act . equality law do not cover pension . let we not forget that HSBC ' s pension fund currently stand at £ 4 . 1 billion in surplus after liability , but the estimate cost of end clawback be just £ 450 million . HSBC have the resource ; what it lack be the will . my Wellington constituent , Mike , who be a former Midland bank employee , have see his pension go down in value by 13 % because of the failure of HSBC to honour its obligation . he tell I that the state — in other word , the taxpayer — will be make up some of his income as a result . give the level of profit that my hon . friend have reveal , be it not totally wrong that the taxpayer be bear the burden of the obligation that the corporate giant should be pay itself ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be unfair and we need to ensure that HSBC be accountable . in correspondence with mps , the bank state that because clawback be lawful , its policy be acceptable , but I say : lawful do not mean just . this Parliament have a duty to act when the law permit injustice . we need to modernise pension legislation to ensure that it reflect today ' s value of fairness , transparency and equality . after the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality — pension injustice , we must be alert to further pension scandal . I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate . the fact that there be so many hon . member in the Chamber be an indication of the interest that she have create through her Adjournment debate , so well do to she . there be an estimate 12 . 95 million state pensioner in Great Britain in 2024 - 25 . as the hon . Lady have say , the WASPI woman have be hard do by because of government decision make without consideration . there be an onus on all of we in this House to ensure that pension fund be profitable and sustainable . do the hon . Lady agree that in tandem with enforce work - base pension , we must ensure that state pension can catch up , so that there will still be such a thing as state pension for the 40 - year - old who be pay their national insurance today , believe that their state pension will be there for they when it come to the time that they need it ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important issue . absolutely , we need to ensure that the Government have a long - term outlook , so that the young work british people of today will be able to retire on a comfortable pension . we urgently need a full review of pension clawback practice . many constituent have write to I about other unfair pension scheme , include former police officer and people on occupational pension that be not protect from inflation . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate . Terry , one of my constituent , work for a large american multinational company . as a consequence of the Pensions Act 1995 , he find his pre - 1997 pension contribution decouple from inflation . because of the nature of inflation , his saving , which he now depend on , have be gradually eat away and he find himself in increase level of destitution . will the Minister look at the issue with the seriousness that it require ? it can not be right that pensioner in our country be suffer as a consequence of decision make by multinational company that remain hugely profitable . the issue have a particular geography because so many multinational company be locate in the south - east of England . I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . we need legal reform to ensure that pension in payment be finally bring under the protection of equality law . we also need great transparency and accountability from pension provider , especially those entrust with the retirement future of hard - work people . hsbc ' s clawback policy be discriminatory in its impact , mislead in its language and fundamentally unjust in its effect . I therefore urge the Minister to bring forward legislation to put an end to this outdated practice and to finally stand up for those whose voice have go unheard for far too long . clawback be just one part of a broken pension system ; we must also ask where our pension fund be invest and what future we be buy with that money . I be grateful to my hon . friend for lay out the case for change so well . she talk about the investment that pension fund be make . I work for more than a decade in the investment industry , and many of my client be big public pension fund . more recently , I serve as a trustee of one of the large public pension fund in the country . one of the thing that pensioner contact I about be where their money be go . they would ask , " be it be use to fund fossil fuel extraction ? " or " be it be use to support some unsavoury regime around the world ? " do my hon . friend agree that pensioner should have more power to have a say over what go on with their money ? I fully agree . it be really important that pension reflect ethic and morality and that the people invest in they have a voice . it be no long good enough to see pension in isolation from sustainability , ethic or morality . whether it be because of the way in which fund be claw back from low - pay pensioner or the way in which they be funnel into destructive , high - emission industry , the system be cry out for reform . as we look ahead to COP30 , billion of pound of local government pension scheme be still invest in fossil fuel and in industry that drive deforestation , biodiversity loss and wildlife extinction . if we be to build a just and sustainable future , we must build a just and sustainable pension system that protect not only people in retirement , but the planet and generation to come . everyone deserve a secure retirement . for many , their occupational pension be an essential part of that . have spend year pay into a pension scheme , it matter to all of we that they get a decent pension out . it must be decent in the sense of be adequate for their need and decent in term of provide the benefit that they be promise . I be pleased that the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) have secure this debate and speak so well during it on a topic deeply relevant to all our constituent — after all , we be all either a pensioner or planning on become one at some point . I thank she and everyone else who have speak . we have hear about a wide range of issue , relevant to different pension scheme and different pensioner . I will not comment in great detail on specific pension scheme , although I be sure that specific employer will have hear hon . member ' point this evening . I will respond in more general term to the point that the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon and other have raise . she raise the issue of integrated pension scheme , which be sometimes call clawback scheme . I appreciate that that type of scheme can be controversial , thank to the change in the private pension income involve . all of we sympathise with anyone who expect a straightforward income increase when their state pension kick in , only to find that thing be much more complicated than that . I have read and listen to representation on this issue myself . as with all define benefit scheme , integrate scheme be require to pay out the full value of the promise pension to each member , as set out in their scheme rule . that provide certainty , security and a base on which saver can build their retirement plan . integrate an occupational pension scheme with the state pension be a core design of some scheme , and that have pro and con . it use to be a common feature of final salary scheme , cover almost half of scheme , accord to one survey from the early 2000 , although it be far less common today , partly for some of the reason that the hon . Lady set out . the original aim be to provide a smooth level of pension income throughout retirement that start before the state pension age be reach , with a high amount of occupational pension pay before state pension age , follow by a reduction in the occupational pension when the member receive their state pension . the amount of the reduction be require to be set out in the pension scheme rule , and it be therefore very important that the rule be clearly communicate to those involve , as my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) make clear . while the aim of integrated pension be clear , it would , of course , be a big shock to anyone to see their occupational pension reduce upon receive the state pension if they have not expect it . it be therefore important for employee to understand the pension benefit they can get from their scheme , and the Government place great weight on the importance of that clear communication , without which no one can plan properly for the future . all scheme be require by law to provide every member with basic information about the scheme , either before they join or very shortly afterwards . that include an explanation of the contribution in the case of some of the scheme mention today , which be on the employer side only , but also how benefit be calculate — exactly the integrated clawback mechanism we be talk about this evening . if saver have not receive clear communication in the form require by law , they must have avenue of redress . they can bring a complaint to their scheme ' s internal dispute procedure , but if that do not resolve the issue , the Pensions Ombudsman be there to act . there have be some call tonight for the Government to compel the withdrawal of integration arrangement — those call have be common for some time , and I have hear they . I recognise some of the argument be make , but I owe it to this House to be clear that we can not retrospectively change the benefit scheme offer to their member . any legislative change would affect all integrated scheme , risk the future of some that be less well fund . however , I do want to engage with the question of pension fairness , which so many member from across the House have raise this evening . while the law be very clear that man and woman must be treat equally within any scheme , I understand the point that have be raise about the effect of those scheme rule , which be feel very unequally indeed . the inequality of pension more broadly be a big issue for society , particularly for woman and low earner over the year . I want to celebrate some progress that have be make , but also recognise how much more there be to do . on progress , the new state pension introduce after 2016 by the previous Government have make a significant difference in close the gap between the average amount receive weekly by man and by woman , to equalise those amount in practice . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention the importance of the state pension — it be the bedrock of all of our pension saving — so that be progress that have be make . we have also see significant progress on automatic enrolment , with 89 % of eligible woman now save into a pension . that be a big change from the 2000 , when as few as 40 % of woman be save into a pension pot . however , there be much more to do . the gender pension gap , for which the Department for Work and Pensions now publish figure the first time , be very large indeed . some of that reflect some of the historical issue we have be discuss , but it also reflect our labour market . woman have low employment rate , be much more likely to do part - time work , and be much more likely to be low earner — for example , 3 . 9 % of woman work in low - pay work as oppose to 2 . 8 % of man . those underlie structural inequality then manifest as pension inequality , which be one of the reason why it be so important that reform of the state pension have move towards a more equal treatment of woman and man . as for what the Government be do about pension inequality , we will shortly set out a timeline for phase 2 of our pension review , focus on adequacy and , in particular , address some of these very important question . although people talk about pension adequacy on average across the whole population , it be very different for different group , which be exactly why the pension review will need to reflect on the question raise . however , it also highlight the importance of some of the change be bring through in the labour market by this government , include through the Employment Rights Bill . that Bill will disproportionately benefit woman , who be more often low earner . turn to the question of indexation , some scheme do provide indexation above the legal minimum on a discretionary basis . like the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , I sympathise with those member who have understand that they would receive ongoing discretionary increase , only to be let down . we take their concern seriously ; I have now meet several group of mp on exactly this issue , and have ask the Department to work with the Pensions Regulator to understand why scheme be not make discretionary payment and to monitor trend . both trustee and employer need to think carefully about the effect of inflation on member ’ benefit — that be especially true on the back of the exceptional inflation in recent year . pension scheme trustee , after all , have a fiduciary duty to scheme member — a duty they should apply when consider discretionary increase . that be directly relevant to recently announce reform on the use of surplus in define benefit scheme , as several member have raise . those reform will make it easy for individual scheme to make decision that improve outcome for sponsor employer and member . that could include discretionary benefit increase , where trustee can consider the situation of those member who would benefit from such rise and whether the scheme have a history of make such payment . trustee will , in negotiation with the employer , be responsible for determine how member may benefit from any release of surplus . I thank member who have contribute this evening , in particular the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon . we all benefit from the opportunity to address this important topic . as the Minister for Pensions , it be my priority to ensure that people who work hard can enjoy the retirement they be owe . that be what this Government will always do . my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) ask whether pensioner might be give more control over where their pension fund be invest . that issue have also arise recently in term of whether pension fund can be invest in defence company in the UK . will the Minister comment on that ? I thank the hon . member for the reminder to respond to that point . he will know that trustee already have a responsibility to invest in the interest of their member and that the law require trustee of significant scheme — with more than 100 member — to set out a clear statement of their investment principle . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) mention some of the issue they will want to consider in that . that be how trustee provide clarity to their saver . there be also then scope for individual , particularly in large pension scheme on the define contribution side , to make choice about where they invest their fund . we see that , for example , with the National Employment Savings Trust , the government - back pension scheme , where individual make different choice on the ground of ethical issue across the board , include defence , as mention by the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) . I thank he for his intervention and for remind I to come back on that point before conclude . it be important that we offer people secure retirement . that be the job of this Government , it be my job as the Pensions Minister , and it be what our pension review be focus on do . it be what this Government will always do . question put and agree to . House adjourn .