business before Questions Fuller Inquiry Phase 2 Report Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of a report , date 15 July 2025 , entitle Independent Inquiry into the issue raise by the David Fuller case — phase 2 Report . — ( Anna Turley . ) Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — renewable energy sector : worker ' right what step he be take to support worker ’ right in the renewable energy sector . the Government be commit to strengthen collective bargaining and trade union recognition . the Employment Rights Bill and the plan to make work pay will modernise right and improve condition . the Office for Clean Energy Jobs engage union to ensure that renewable energy job support economic growth , the net zero transition and worker move from carbon - intensive sector . many of my constituent in Halesowen work in energy - intensive industry such as forge and heavy manufacturing . the Government be rightly support those industry to become more energy - efficient , but worker need new skill , as well as skill in the many new job in the renewable energy sector . as they make this transition , how be the Department support worker in the west midland to get the right skill for these new industry ? my hon . friend be right to raise that point . support worker in energy - intensive industry be essential as we transition our economy . the Government will provide over £ 1 . 2 billion per year in skill fund by 2028 - 29 , support training in renewable , low - carbon construction and advanced engineering . we be also invest over £ 100 million over three year to develop engineering skill in England and launch new technical excellence college to make sure that training stay align with employer ' need . we will also push forward on the clean energy workforce strategy this year . Green Industries : Supply chain Jobs what step he have take with Cabinet colleague to help increase the number of job in supply chain in green industry . the industrial strategy publish last month set out our plan to build clean energy supply chain in the UK , include a new £ 1 billion fund through great British Energy to partner with the private sector to create job in Britain and the new clean industry bonus , which have the potential to unleash billion of pound of private investment in offshore wind supply chain . we be determined that the clean energy future will be make in Britain . the power cable over the Tyne be a barrier to business secure work for large renewable energy structure , risk possible net GVA benefit of up to £ 1 . 2 billion . it have be propose that the removal of the cable will be complete in 2032 . will the Secretary of State help I push for it to be bring forward so that Tyneside be not hold back in the global race for green job ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on be such a brilliant champion of the port of Tyne and what it offer , and she be right to draw attention to this important issue . approval of any work to reroute the line be a matter for Ofgem , but we stand ready to engage with she and , indeed , Ofgem to try to bring this forward . I suggest that my hon . friend the Energy Minister meet she to discuss this important issue . despite the grow need for green job — obviously , we be all in favour of make sure we have green job — few than one in 10 employee receive any dedicated green skill training , accord to an OVO Energy survey . what can we do to support business , and what can the Government do to accelerate that important training programme in all business where we need green job ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . later this year , we will publish a clean energy skill plan to address precisely this question : how do we make sure we equip worker with the skill they need to take advantage of those job ? that be be lead by my right hon . friend the Education Secretary in the work she be do with Skills England , but there be a whole range of thing we can do . for the first time , the Government will publish what the skill need be for clean energy job and how we will meet they , which will be an important step forward . as people fly off for their summer holiday , the chance be that the steel in the aeroplane ' s engine come from the Stocksbridge Speciality Steels plant in my constituency . I be hopeful about the news that Liberty Steel , which own the site , have attract potential investor for this asset . the asset be essential for our national security and provide opportunity for net zero infrastructure , include wind turbine . however , uncertainty about the firm mean that pension contribution have not be pay to the skilled workforce for 10 month , cause significant worry and anxiety for 600 local steelworker . what reassurance can the Secretary of State provide to stocksbridge steelworker about how the outstanding pension contribution will be pay , include in any future ownership arrangement ? my hon . friend raise an important issue about her constituency and the steel industry , and I would say two thing . one be that what this Government have do , which I be afraid be not do previously , be set up a dedicated fund for steel so that we be able to make the green transition . we talk about this in opposition , and we be now deliver billion of pound to help the steel industry transition . the other be that I will take up the specific pension issue she raise with my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary . the worker of Grangemouth deserve far well than they get from the Labour Government . to add insult to injury , they have have to watch they pull out all the stop for Scunthorpe and Prax Lindsey . in a write answer to I , the Energy Minister refuse to confirm how much money the UK Government have spend to continue operation at Lindsey . will the Secretary of State now come clean and tell we what price they be willing to pay to save job in England , which they be not willing to pay to save Grangemouth in Scotland ? the hon . Gentleman be so wide of the mark it be unbelievable . the Grangemouth closure be foreshadow before this government come to power . we have work hand in glove with his colleague in the Scottish Government — all the way along , Gillian Martin and I have be work on it — and for he to try to make party politic out of the issue be , frankly , a disgrace . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the british oil and gas industry be a resilient sector — it have have to be , give this Government ' s action over the past year — and it take a lot to shock it , but shock it be when , on 2 July , sadly the Energy Minister claim to the Scottish Affairs Committee that there be no " material difference " between oil and gas import and production from the North sea . might the Secretary of State take this opportunity to apologise and clarify those remark , because thousand of worker in the energy industry supply chain in Aberdeen and across the UK be very worried that the Department have such scant regard for they , their work and this world - lead industry ? first of all , Mr Speaker , let I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his promotion to shadow Secretary of State . [ laughter . ] on the specific issue he raise , we will take no lecture from the Conservatives . some 70 , 000 job be lose in the North sea on their watch . and here be the difference : we be build the future . the Acorn project be talk about for year after year by the Conservatives but nothing be do . this government be deliver . I call shadow Minister Bowie . the Secretary of State will not apologise . that be absolutely fine . the industry already know that this be a Government who want nothing to do with it , and who take every opportunity to talk it down and make every effort to shut it down . in that same session last week , the Minister who be sit to the Secretary of State ' s leave also claim that " much of the gas that be extract from the North sea be export " . that be simply not true : 100 % of all the gas extract from the North sea be use in Britain . the Secretary of State know that , so why be he so determined to talk down this industry , spout falsehood and myth , drive investment out of the UK , rely more on import and , crucially , cost people ' s job and drive the skill we need out of this country ? that be exactly what he and his colleague be do . here be the difference between they and we . they would keep we hooked on fossil fuel for time immemorial . they have learn not a single lesson from the disaster they inflict on this country : family finance ruin ; business finance ruin ; public finance ruin . a year on , there be not a word of apology . Clean Power : Jobs what estimate he have make of the number of additional job that have be create in clean power industry in the north - east since July 2024 . what estimate he have make of the number of additional job that have be create in clean power industry since July 2024 . what estimate he have make of the number of additional job that have be create in clean power industry since July 2024 . what estimate he have make of the number of additional job that have be create in clean power industry since July 2024 . since come to office , the Government have show how clean power can create job across our country , with thousand of job in nuclear , through our investment in Sizewell C and small modular reactor ; in carbon capture and storage ; in offshore wind ; and in home heating through our warm home plan . this be what it mean to deliver reindustrialisation through our clean energy sprint . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . the north - east be uniquely place to be the home of the green energy revolution , with the expansion of the Energy Academy in north Tyneside provide a skill pipeline . how will the clean energy industry sector plan help to provide long - term certainty for investment and deliver good quality job for community across my Cramlington and Killingworth constituency and the north - east ? I see the north - east as an absolute powerhouse for the clean energy job we want to create . early on in this government , we do something which again have be talk about for year by the conservative party in deliver the east coast carbon capture , usage and storage cluster , which be project to create thousand of job , include benefit for my hon . friend ' s constituency . it be not just the direct job that will be create , but job in the supply chain . we have an opportunity — the north - east will be at the heart of this — to lead in the clean energy job of the future . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on critical mineral . build local supply chain in Cornwall be one of the primary mean by which local people can benefit , if we be to dig nearly £ 1 billion - worth of stuff out of the ground every year or pump 95 GW of offshore wind power onshore . therefore , what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that supply chain business , particularly those of the size we have in Cornwall , and their workforce get the support they need , so that worker and local community may share in the spoil of that investment ? let I first say how much I love Cornwall . I love Cornwall for many reason , but one reason I love it be the opportunity it offer to drive the job of the future . I know from my visit that , whether it be through critical mineral , geothermal or offshore wind , there be huge opportunity in Cornwall . that be what the industrial strategy be design to superpower . that be what the huge investment my right hon . friend the Chancellor make in the spending review will provide . as part of our clean energy workforce strategy later on this year , Cornwall will be at the heart of it . I know that the Secretary of State love Harlow as well . do he agree that the historic investment in clean energy secure at the spending review will mean thousand of job opportunity for young people , include in Harlow , in renewable energy , nuclear , energy efficiency and so much more ? I love Harlow , Mr Speaker , and I love Harlow college . the visit I have make to the college have be incredibly inspiring ; I have see with my own eye the enthusiastic young people there and speak to they about green skill and the job of the future . when I think about what this Government intend to deliver , it be absolutely about my hon . friend ' s constituent in Harlow . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate TK Murray Ltd — no relation , honest — an energy - save contractor base in Kilsyth , on have already cross - train more than half its workforce to become fully fledge installer of air source heat pump technology from gas boiler ? this have be facilitate by Warmworks , which have develop a supply chain of more than 30 small and medium - sized enterprise to make more than 750 green job a reality . I love Cumbernauld , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend raise the important opportunity in heat pump technology . the growth in heat pump that we be see be not just about a well deal for consumer , but about the manufacturing that we can see . my hon . friend have give a great example of that . if the Secretary of State love Shropshire , and I be sure he do , I hope he will not bulldoze over all our green belt — but that be another story for another day . the Secretary of State talk about green job . I be sure he do not want our fire service to be deploy more and more , but with solar energy feeding into battery energy storage system , there be real concern at Shropshire fire service and across the country that there will be fire that be very difficult for our fire service to control . do the Secretary of State agree that our fire service should be a statutory consultee on future planning application for battery storage ? this be an important issue that we need to take seriously . at the moment , it come under the health and safety regime , but we be consult on the good arrangement to ensure that we have the high standard of safety . there be high safety standard in place , but as we see the growth of battery , we will endeavour to ensure that those standard be maintain . it go without say that I love Burgess Hill . one brilliant business there be Steve Willis Training , which be this week celebrate 25 year in business , train the region ' s future electricity , plumbing and heating engineer . do the Secretary of State agree that such business be vital in deliver the skill of the future , and will he join I in congratulate Steve Willis Training on be a brilliant family business that provide key skill to the south - east ? I warmly congratulate Steve Willis Training on its 25 year in operation and on the work it be do . the hon . Lady make an important point : we can help to create job in the private sector , but the question then be whether people will have the skill to fill they . organisation and company like Steve Willis Training be fundamental to that . sometimes it require lot of training ; sometimes it require short amount of training to retrain people in new technology like heat pump . it be vital that that training happen . People across Basildon and Billericay , and indeed across the country , want to see more job in energy production and to see cheap energy . what they do not understand be why the Government be back some but not all form of energy . why be the Government insist on ship job in oil and gas abroad , rather than keep they here while invest in green energy at the same time ? the answer be that we be not . as the right hon . Gentleman know , the reality be that the North sea have be a basin in decline and that 70 , 000 job be lose under the previous Government . the question be : do we create the job of the future as well as maintain exist field for their lifetime ? this Government be commit to do so . if he want to see those job , he should support our plan . tempt as I be to wax lyrical about the beauty of Aberdeenshire , I will instead ask the Secretary of State a very simple question . by this time next year , how many job will GB Energy have create in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire ? GB Energy will create thousand of job across the country , include in Aberdeen . here be why GB Energy really matter : we have choose to put its headquarters in Aberdeen , as we recognise that Aberdeen be the clean energy capital of our country — not just for oil and gas , which be important , but for the future . SNP Members be chuntere on the Front Bench , but they never do anything to create that future for people in Aberdeen . Electricity Grid Capacity what step he be take to increase electricity grid capacity . we be work with Ofgem and the National Energy System Operator to accelerate network infrastructure through reform to planning , supply chain and other area , deliver the capacity need to achieve clean power by 2030 and to drive economic growth . in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock , the local plan anticipate significant new employment site to create job and growth . Tritax Big Box tell I that it want to put solar panel on 100 % of usable roof area on the building that it intend to create . local planning policy would support that , yet I be shocked to learn that Tritax expect to install solar panel on only 25 % of usable roof space . it can not get a permit to generate electricity or consent to export to the grid . will the Minister or his official meet I to discuss how we can turn this into a win - win opportunity for rooftop green solar ? that sound like a fantastic opportunity . our ambition be to see solar panel on as many rooftop across the country as possible . it be a win - win opportunity , as the hon . Gentleman rightly put it . he and I have speak about a number of these issue previously , and I be happy to discuss this one with he . if he could write to I with the specific , we will certainly look at the matter . in the meantime , we be look at reform all those process to make sure that we can get as much power as possible . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . the challenge of increase electricity grid capacity include the ability to get plan consent and to achieve grid connection , as the Minister know . in the report that the Select Committee publish last week , we refer to the problem of inconsistency in some of the guidance and energy plan over which come first — the grid connection or the planning consent . will the Minister please address that and ensure that the Government clear up that inconsistency , so that we can move forward with increase electricity generation and grid capacity ? I thank my hon . friend for the question and for the work that he and the whole Committee have be do on this matter . his report have be my bedtime read every night this week as it be an important piece of work . he be right about two thing . first , where process be not as well align as they should be , we absolutely need to look at what we can do to make sure that they work much more coherently . the second point his report make , which we be also look at , be how we bring together thing such as the strategic spatial energy plan , the holistic network design and the land use framework to make sure that we have coherent plan across the country , so that we can plan properly our energy system . energy cost : business what step he be take to help support business to reduce their energy cost . we know that the cost of energy be a huge challenge to business across the country . that be why our mission to deliver clean power by 2030 be so important : that be how we will get bill down for good . while we try to get there , we be take action to support business , include through the new british industrial competitiveness scheme , which will reduce electricity cost by around 20 % to 25 % for more than 7 , 000 business . when the Government help business reduce energy cost , include by aid their transition , business such as the pub and caf é s in Dawley , Madeley and Oakengates and manufacturer on Stafford Park and Halesfield can then protect and create job and pass on saving to customer . will the Government back those business and ask the energy giant , which continue to make ten of billion of pound of profit , to pay for it ? my hon . friend be completely right to stress the challenge face by business . the Government be commit to back business . we be work with the regulator to make sure that the system be fair for everyone and , as be set out in our industrial strategy , from 2027 the new british industrial competitiveness scheme will reduce electricity cost by up to £ 40 per megawatt - hour , which will benefit thousand of electricity - intensive industry , include the one in his constituency . we be very clear that we be back business , and we will do everything we can to support they in drive down bill . energy cost be an issue that the Prax oil refinery have bring to my attention over the year as a problem it have be face . I appreciate the call I have have with the Minister for Energy about this . I be able to visit the plant on Friday , and there be clearly grow concern , with hundred of job at risk . what assurance can the Minister offer my constituent who be affect by this situation ? the hon . member be right to raise this situation ; we know that it be very difficult , and we have be engage on it . there have be long - stand issue with how the plant be run . we be try , across the piece , to support business to make the transition — and support they within the transition — so that we can protect job across the country . I call the shadow Minister . when the price cap fall last month , the Labour party boast , " £ 129 off your bill , deliver by Labour " . the Minister know that energy bill fall as wholesale gas price fall , and she know that her policy be to take the country off gas and keep increase policy cost on bill . that be why she refuse to repeat the claim . will she take this opportunity to apologise for her party say something that she know be untrue ? every time the hon . member stand up to speak , I hold my head in absolute frustration . he be gamble with fossil fuel , and quite frankly the Conservatives should hang their head in shame . energy bill rocket under their watch and they do nothing about it — they be happy with that . that be not a legacy that we be willing to contend with , which be why we be take action in the short term to drive down bill through our sprint to clean power . their legacy be one they should be ashamed of , so they should not be lecture we . New Nuclear what assessment he have make of the role of new nuclear in support a clean energy transition . what assessment he have make of the role of new nuclear in support a clean energy transition . the clean power 2030 action plan make it clear that nuclear will play an important role in our future energy system , provide low - carbon baseload power to the grid . we be deliver the big new nuclear building programme in a generation , have commit almost £ 17 billion at the recent spending review . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for show his love for Hemel Hempstead when he come to launch a new scheme on solar panel the other month . on the question of new nuclear and clean job , could the Minister outline how community like mine in Hemel Hempstead will benefit from these new job ? well , my right hon . friend the Energy Secretary say that we love Hemel Hempstead ; I think we agree on that . the nuclear sector be poise for significant growth . that will help deliver on our energy need in the future , and it be how we will deliver thousand of skilled job across the country . the nuclear skill plan be a collaborative effort between Government , industry and academia , set out the target work we need to address the skill gap and bring forward the thousand of apprentice we will need to deliver this work in the future . the regional skill hub we have establish will help to deliver training support locally to ensure that every community in the country benefit . Rolls - Royce in Derby have recently be announce as the preferred bidder for the delivery of small modular reactor , which mean that many of my Erewash constituent will become the beat heart of the workforce that deliver the reactor . can the Minister explain how derbyshire ' s fine smr will help to end our reliance on foreign oil and gas ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the Government be commit to deliver a new golden age of nuclear , secure an abundance of clean power after 14 year of dither and delay from the Conservatives , and with that will come investment across the country . on 10 June , follow a robust two - year process , great British Energy Nuclear select Rolls - Royce SMR as its preferred bidder to deliver the UK ' s first small modular reactor , subject to final Government approval and contract signature . the Government be make available £ 2 . 5 billion across the spending review to enable this to be one of Europe ' s first SMR programme . I have always be a supporter of nuclear power . unfortunately , we do not have access to nuclear power in Northern Ireland , but I know from discussion with the Minister that he be very keen to ensure that modular nuclear power opportunity be available in Northern Ireland . business that I have speak to want access to these opportunity , as do the Northern Ireland Assembly . I know that the Minister be always commit to try to make thing well , so have he have an opportunity to talk to the relevant Minister in the Northern Ireland Assembly about ensure that access to modular nuclear power be available to we in Northern Ireland ? I regularly engage with Ministers in the Northern Irish Executive , include in the Department for the Economy , which have responsibility for energy policy in Northern Ireland , and we discuss a range of issue . we be happy to support the Northern Irish Executive in any way we can , either with technology or through roll out the regulatory framework . we be really excited about the opportunity pose by smr and be happy to discuss that in Northern Ireland as well . Industrial Electricity Prices what step his Department be take to help reduce industrial electricity price . what step his Department be take to help reduce industrial electricity price . we understand that high energy bill be a challenge for business , and particularly energy - intensive company . we be clear that , in the long term , our mission to deliver clean power be the only way to bear down on that cost . but while we get there , we be provide the support need through the british industrial competitiveness scheme and the supercharger scheme , protect over 7 , 000 business . the UK ' s industrial electricity price be among the high in Europe , and it be quite clear that the Government ' s current policy be fail manufacture business in constituency such as mine . will the Minister commit to introduce support that genuinely reduce electricity cost for manufacturer , include by tackle high wholesale energy price , rather than prolong the uncertainty , which sadly put local job at risk ? I gently remind the right hon . member that industrial energy price rocket on the Conservatives ' watch . gas price for non - domestic company go up by 170 % , which be catastrophic for UK plc . we be take action to support business through our sprint to clean power and , critically , the measure we be provide through the british industrial competitiveness scheme . those measure have be support by Make UK , the British Chambers of Commerce , UK Steel and the Chemical Industries Association . the Conservatives dither , delay and do nothing to support business ; we be crack on and get on with the job . on Friday , I visit C & M Precision Ltd , a small manufacture company in my constituency . electricity represent easily its big cost . what be the Minister do to listen to small and medium - sized enterprise like C & M who feel that their voice be simply not be hear ? we be listen to business , particularly small and medium - sized business . we have hear company complain , for example , about be lock into expensive fix - term contract . that be why Ofgem be work to deliver blend - and - extend contract so that business can benefit from low price . we have hear their frustration at the lack of a redress system , which be why last December we expand the ombudsman service to 99 % of business so that they can get redress and financial award of up to £ 20 , 000 . we have also hear their frustration about energy broker , which be why we have consult on introduce regulation of third - party intermediary . we will respond in due course . last week , the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee hear from make UK and representative from the chemical , petrochemical , steel and ceramics industry that close alignment and collaboration with the EU on energy pricing be critical to reduce bill . that be also recognise in the Government ' s industrial strategy . what more be the Department do to bring that forward quickly ? my hon . friend make a good point . industry voice have be call for that close alignment , particularly on the emission trading scheme — we have hear that from UK Steel , the CBI , make UK and the Energy Intensive Users Group — and we believe that those strong linkage be the right thing to do to cut red tape at the border , to protect consumer from high cost and , critically , to boost trade and growth , which the Government be absolutely committed to do . one way to drive down energy cost , include for energy - intensive industry , could be to help cut curtailment cost by encourage the co - location of new energy - intensive industry sector with some of the renewable sector that we be currently have to pay to switch off . as we start to roll out more datum centre across the country , what conversation have Ministers have about how such centre could be optimally locate to help reduce our energy bill at the same time ? my hon . friend make a good point , as always . we in the Department be work across Government — as part of the AI Council as well as with colleague in the Department for Business and Trade — to ensure that we have the co - ordination and collaboration to support business on the ground . clean Energy : supply what step he be take to help increase the supply of clean energy . we will continue to support new renewable through the contract for difference scheme in conjunction with initiative such as the warm home plan , the future home standard and the boiler upgrade scheme . great British Energy and great British Energy Nuclear will together invest more than £ 8 . 3 billion over this Parliament in home - grow clean power . I welcome the Government ' s mission to achieve clean power by 2030 . I know that the Minister will agree that it be vital that we make the transition to net zero as quickly as possible , not only to fight climate change but to low energy bill . do he agree that whereas previous government have fail to deliver for the british people , our plan be the single good way to bring down energy bill for family , include in my Battersea constituency , and to provide they with much - need energy security ? I completely agree . my hon . friend make the point that this be not just about action on the climate — as important as that be — and create thousand of new job , but about bring down bill and , crucially , deliver on that energy security point . the truth be that even though our clean power mission be about do all four of those thing at the same time , the conservative party oppose all of that action , would leave we much more vulnerable to the volatility of the fossil fuel market , and would turn its face against the economic opportunity of the 21st century . the Minister will recognise that one way to increase the supply of clean energy be to enable community energy project to supply local energy market . when minister be ask about that , as he know they have be many time , they generally say that there be no technical obstacle to it happen , but will the Minister recognise that there be world of difference between , on the one hand , something be technically possible and , on the other , that same thing be facilitate and encourage so it really happen ? will he focus on the latter as the Government develop their energy market reform ? I completely agree . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be absolutely right : there be no technical barrier to do it , but that do not mean that it be a straightforward process . to be honest , thing that I think would have be much more straightforward , like how we define " community " , be more difficult to get right , but we be absolutely determined to do it . he be right to make the point about deliver clean power that benefit local community , so that they can buy it locally and really see the benefit of host it . that be exactly what we be determined to do and we will continue to work to make it happen . Warm Home Discount what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount to all household in receipt of means - test benefit on people receive those benefit . we know that household be under huge pressure with the cost of living , and energy cost be a big part of that . the expansion of the warm home discount scheme will mean that nearly 3 million more family will receive vital support with their energy bill this winter . this will provide much - need help at a time when people desperately need it . will the Minister confirm how many resident in my North Durham constituency will benefit from the extension of the warm home discount to all household in receipt of means - test benefit ? sadly , we do not have datum at constituency level , but I can tell my hon . friend , who be a brilliant champion for his constituency , that around 100 , 000 extra household in the north - east will benefit from the expansion — an increase of around 50 % . the Minister will be aware that many home , particularly in rural area , be old property that be difficult to insulate . do she agree that we all need to concentrate on those old type of property , many of which be the home of elderly people who can not afford expensive energy ? we need to concentrate on ensure that those home be properly insulate and that the warm home discount scheme be extend to such property . the hon . Member make an important point . we be very clear that we need to make sure that we have the right solution for every household , include those in rural community . I have meet representative from rural community , council , member and some of the company that be try to do work in rural community . we be absolutely committed to get this right as part of the warm home plan . renewable energy : private Sector Investment what assessment he have make of the adequacy of mechanism to encourage private sector investment in renewable energy source . since the election last year , we have secure over £ 50 billion of investment into the UK ' s clean energy industry . last year ' s renewable auction for allocation round 6 be the most successful in our history , and we will shortly open the AR7 auction . this be the way to deliver energy security , low bill and good job for our community . private sector investment via community energy scheme be a popular way of engage people to get behind renewable energy project in their area . a great example be Meadow Blue Community Energy in my constituency of Chichester , which put money back into the community with a grant scheme and be now fund solar panel on local school roof . do the Secretary of State agree that community energy project would attract more private sector investment if grid access cost be reduce and the delivery of local supply be make easy ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue , which be also raise by the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . she be right about the virtue of community energy . great British Energy be go to partner with local community to deliver community energy up and down the country , because sometimes public capital — it could be loan , it could be grant — can help lever in the private capital that we need . she be also right about some of the barrier , as the Energy Minister mention . I want to assure she that we be go through the different barrier in granular , nerdy detail to see how we can break they down . I must declare an interest as a crofte tenant of Knock and Swordale common grazing , as good a definition of a community as you can ever get , but Knock and Swordale , along with several other community power scheme in my constituency , can not get grid connection except through active network management connection , which basically mean that the community can supply power to the grid only when the big boy — the commercial company — be not do so . these connection offer be next to useless , and the National Energy System Operator , Ofgem and the transmission company have to be tell from this Dispatch Box that they can not be agnostic about what kind of grid connection they offer and to whom . they must put community first if community be go to support this transition . my hon . friend , who I have talk to on a number of occasion about these wide issue , raise a really important point . I be just talk to the Energy Minister about it . let I take away my hon . friend ' s point about access . we be commit to drive forward community energy , and we will talk to NESO and Ofgem to get it right and make sure it happen . net Zero Policies what step he be take to ensure scientific evidence be use to support his net zero policy . yesterday , the Secretary of State make an incredibly important statement to this House outline the crisis we face when it come to climate change and the decline of nature . tackle this start with be honest about the science and what the expert be tell we . we know that we can only have climate security for future generation by act at scale today . I thank the Minister for her answer . energy security be important not just to help bring bill down now . do the Minister agree that it be also vital for the future and for protect future generation , include in my constituency of eminently lovable Watford , because those young people be the one who will face the climate change consequence in the year to come ? as someone who grow up in Luton , I be not sure I be allow to say that I love Watford , because there be an age - old rivalry there — but yes , we know that act now with our clean energy superpower mission , scale up renewable , reinforce the grid and reduce our reliance on volatile fossil fuel market will mean a clean , more secure future for generation to come . that be why , unlike the Conservatives , we be follow the science and show the leadership that be need at home and abroad . around Beverley , there be proposal for five solar farm , total 465 MW . can the Minister assure my constituent that the scientific evidence that will be use to assess this will include the cumulative impact of these project on the area around Beverley ? yes , of course we look at the cumulative impact of these development . have be in the Department , the right hon . Gentleman will know that we have an excellent team of scientist lead by Professor Paul Monks , who I want to pay tribute to because he be stand down later this year . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman would want to do so too . I call the shadow Secretary of State — and congratulation on your marriage ! thank you , Mr Speaker . the Secretary of State try to argue yesterday that he be a climate change believer and everybody else who disagree with he be a deni , because he do not want to engage with any legitimate criticism of his policy . he be offshore british industry — in other word , replace british good with dirty import with high emission . can the Minister confirm what the scientific evidence be that do so will help to tackle climate change ? perhaps if the right hon . Member have be here yesterday , she would have be able to engage with the Secretary of State on this . the science be absolutely clear : every avoid fraction of a degree of warming make a difference to the severity of climate impact . that be why the Prime Minister go to the global leader summit at COP29 last year to announce a new 1 . 5 ° c - align nationally determine contribution , and we will continue to show international leadership . Radio Teleswitch Service what step he be take to manage the radio teleswitch service switch - off . the Government have step in to ensure a more control and carefully manage phase - out of the radio teleswitch service . I have be engage directly on this and meet Energy UK and Ofgem fortnightly to discuss progress and the supplier ' phase - out plan . my focus and priority be absolutely clear : to ensure that there be no impact on consumer and that we minimise any consumer detriment . I welcome the Government ' s change in course , because the previous hard deadline would have leave many people , include people in my constituency of Edinburgh West , vulnerable and , indeed , unaware that there be any need to change their meter , but there be still a big problem in Scotland , as 100 , 000 people be still wait on meter , and may be unaware of this issue . on engage with the community , will the Minister please tell we what she be do in Scotland to ensure that rural community be approach about this , and vulnerable people get protection ? we have be work closely with the Scottish Government and engage with scottish mps . we know that about 97 , 000 meter need to be replace in Scotland . all those household have be contact multiple time . in addition , because we know that there be particular challenge in some rural community , we have do a sprint , in which supplier be work in collaboration with the local authority to bring down the number of replacement need . I can reassure the hon . member that no area will be switch off without we contact consumer to inform they , without we allow they to book in emergency appointment , and , critically , without we inform mp and local authority , so that we do this in the good possible way . Climate Change Committee Report what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the Climate Change Committee ' s report entitle " progress in reduce emission " , publish on 25 June 2025 . the Climate Change Committee report make clear the progress we have make in the past 12 month on overturn the terrible legacy of the Conservatives , who turn their back on climate action . we know that clean power be the route to energy security , low bill and good job . it be a shame that the Tories and Reform be still stick in the past . the Climate Change Committee say that the UK should be proud of its approach to consistent and sustain decarbonisation , but there be much more to do . this week , Bracknell Forest Community Climate Action be host a summit to discuss what can be do locally to address climate change and support nature . do the Minister agree that local initiative like this demonstrate the strong public support for action on climate change ? we know that there be strong public support , and we be keen to engage more at a local level with group like Bracknell Forest Community Climate Action . that be why we have set up the local net zero delivery group to work with council and mayor , and why we will produce a public participation strategy later this year . I very much hope that my hon . friend ' s constituent will get involve in that . will the Minister join I in congratulate the fantastic Lib Dem - run Winchester city council on be rate the green council in the UK by Climate Action UK ? that be a lot of work by politician , and it show what politician who dearly believe in this issue can achieve if they crack on and deal with it , rather than weaponise it in some kind of culture war . I be happy to join the hon . member in congratulate his local council . I visit the Local Government Association the week before last , I think , with the local net zero delivery group , on which we have representation from all area of local government . I be keen to learn from the good and translate that into action for other who need a bit more encouragement . renewable Energy what step he be take to increase the use of renewable energy . our clean power 2030 action plan set out our pathway to deliver clean power . to support that plan , we recently launch the solar road map , which confirm plan to increase domestic solar installation through the future home standard and warm home plan . over 50 % of our food and £ 2 . 7 billion in lifesave medicine depend on the cold chain , but operator face soar energy cost and grow grid instability . in Epsom and Ewell , Sunswap be pioneer battery and solar - power refrigeration , which cut emission while protect vital supply chain . will the Minister commit to target support for renewable energy innovator like Sunswap , whose technology can strengthen both sustainability and national resilience ? the hon . Lady be right that we have an enormous amount of innovation in this space and real potential to meet our future need , not just as a result of the pathway that we have outline , but through innovative solution like the one she mention , which provide specific support to target industry . I be happy to look far into her proposal , and at the funding available for innovation . if she want to write to I with any detail , I will happily follow up . a business in the village of Fradley in my constituency have a plan to put million of watt of solar on the roof of its business . unfortunately , it can not proceed with that application , because there be not sufficient export capacity on the site . it would never export a watt of that electricity , which would meet only a fraction of its energy need . will the Minister meet I , so that we can discuss how we can make regulatory change to support project like this one ? my hon . friend make a point that other have raise . we be look in granular detail at how the system work to ensure that the regulatory landscape allow such opportunity to be take . I be very happy to meet he to discuss this far . we be take a detailed look at every single aspect of the system , so that community , business and other can benefit from be able to export power to the grid . that will help the country with its energy need and deliver a benefit for local community . household Energy Bills what step he be take to help reduce household energy bill . what step he be take to help support low income family in the context of trend in the level of energy price . what step he be take to help reduce household energy bill . we believe that the good way to protect household permanently be through our mission to deliver clean power by 2030 . combine with our warm home plan to upgrade million of home across the country so that they be warm and cheap to run , that will drive down energy bill and make cold home a thing of the past . we know that we need to support people while we make that transition , which be why we be extend the warm home discount . almost 10 % of people in my North East Hampshire constituency live in fuel poverty . I agree with the Minister that invest in renewable energy would help to tackle that , so how be she work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to empower local authority to develop renewable energy generation locally — by follow Europe ' s lead in put solar over car park , for example — in order to make energy cheap and more sustainable ? the hon . member be right : there be a big push to work with local and regional authority to ensure not only that we generate renewable that can impact on bill , but that we upgrade home . through local energy action plan , local authority be , for the first time , work with the National Energy System Operator and other system operator to drive that . local and regional authority have a crucial role to play in upgrade million of home across the country . my Heywood and Middleton North constituent live in a state of profound uncertainty as to how the unpredictability of global energy market will affect their family . do the Minister agree that if we want to protect those family from volatility , we must end our reliance on global fossil fuel market , and introduce target intervention to bring bill down , particularly for those on the low income ? my hon . friend be right . it beggar belief that the conservative party be so stuck in its ideological opposition to move towards clean power . we be clear that we must break our dependence on global fossil fuel market , which lead to record energy bill during the energy crisis . we be make that sprint , but it be critical that we support the most vulnerable household while we make that transition , which be why I be so proud that this government extend the warm home discount so that an extra 2 . 7 million household — one in five — will benefit this winter . I congratulate Ministers again on embrace the principle of the sunshine Bill campaign , run by I and many other to ensure that solar panel be include on the roof of all new house . in the heat of recent week , people in my constituency have be swelter in beautiful old regency building , which pose a particular challenge in this respect . do Ministers agree that if we line up heat pump technology and solar panel , we can lower our energy bill and keep cool at the same time ? the hon . member be right . we believe in a solar panel revolution . that be one of the key thing that great British Energy will bring about across the country . on overheat , it will be critical to ensure that as we upgrade home , we make they fit for purpose in the context of climate change . we be include air - to - air heat pump in the boiler upgrade scheme , and we will consider other measure to keep home cool . the Government have take long - overdue step to secure rooftop solar on new build , but there be even great untapped potential on exist commercial and domestic rooftop . will minister consider introduce a scheme , similar to those in other country , offer free installation of rooftop solar for business and resident ? the cost could be pay back through a long - term power - purchase agreement . that would simultaneously increase the supply of clean energy and cut bill . my hon . friend be right to talk about the potential of solar on our commercial building . we know that solar can reduce energy bill by about £ 600 . we be look at all the option , because we be absolutely serious about a solar rooftop revolution , whether on our home or commercial building . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome the joint agreement sign in May between the UK and the EU , in which small step be take to address the impact of the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal on energy cost and bill . what further step will the Secretary of State take to forge energy co - operation through a recoupling of the UK and EU electricity market and the UK ' s participation in the EU ' s internal electricity market , to boost trade , bring down renewable energy cost and reduce energy bill ? we have be listen to industry voice , and they be very clear about the opportunity for strong alignment . we will continue to engage with they , and with our partner in the EU on the opportunity as we make the sprint to clean power . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last oral question time for the Department , the spending review announce the large investment in clean energy in our country ' s history — investment in new nuclear ; in carbon , capture and storage ; and in hydrogen transport and storage . we be invest £ 8 . 3 billion through great British Energy and £ 13 . 2 billion in our warm home plan for energy security , low bill and good job . evidence from the National Grid , Ofgem and Imperial College London show that locational or zonal pricing would save billion of pound a year , low bill and reduce the need for expensive and often unpopular grid infrastructure . why have the Secretary of State rule it out ? I make a comprehensive statement to the House on this last Thursday , and the ground for the decision be these : first , there be the question of fairness , and secondly , there be the question of the cost of the transition and what would happen in the meantime . we need investment in our clean energy infrastructure , and we need investment in growth . I believe that our way — reform national pricing — be the right way forward . in the fight for energy security , every area of our country must play its part , but that mean energy infrastructure project should be distribute evenly . what be the Department do to ensure that no community will be ask to do more than its fair share ? my hon . friend make an important point . that be why the strategic spatial energy plan will set out where we need our energy infrastructure , so that we can have a plan system that match power need and infrastructure at least cost to bill payer and taxpayer . I call the shadow Secretary of State . yesterday , the Secretary of State say I be hide when I be , in fact , with my six - month - old baby , who I know he be aware of . on behalf of all young mum who face those kind of comment in their first few week back at work , may I gently suggest he reflect on those remark ? I want to ask the Secretary of State a very simple question : be £ 82 high or low than £ 72 ? on the first point , I completely respect the right hon . Lady ' s decision to be with her young baby , and there be no offence intend . I think it be very important that we understand the need of new parent and , indeed , parent across the country . on the question she ask , I do not know what she be get at , frankly . I do not know whether the Secretary of State do not know or do not want to say , but £ 72 a megawatt - hour be what electricity cost last year , and £ 82 be the price he have pay for offshore wind , and he be set to do the same this year — and that be before the extra cost for the grid for wasted wind and back - up , which be go through the roof , thank to his policy . yesterday , he commit to radical honesty . in that spirit , will he admit either that he can not add up , or that his policy can not bring down bill ? I be go to be radically honest and tell the right hon . Lady the truth : she be gamble on fossil fuel — the same thing she do that lead we to the bad cost of live crisis in our country ' s history , with family finance , business ' finance and public finance wreck . the only way to bring down bill for good be through cheap , home - grow power that we control . we have an energy security plan . the Conservatives have an energy surrender plan . what ambition do the Department have for sector and technology that GB Energy will prioritise , since the chief operating officer have say that he want to evolve it into a major energy company , and what might that mean for job creation , include in constituency like mine ? GB Energy will prioritise a whole range of project , and that be a matter for GB Energy , as a publicly own energy company at arm ' s length from Government , but there be huge opportunity right across our country , whether in float wind , tidal , hydrogen or offshore wind and supply chain . GB Energy be own by the public and will benefit people right across Britain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . across Europe , we have already see 2 , 300 heatwave - relate death — avoidable death — and the Met Office report say that thing will just get bad . the Lib Dems and I have a really cool idea . will the Secretary of State work with local authority to open up public space with air conditioning , such as leisure centre and library , so that they can provide relief from extreme heat for the elderly and vulnerable ? there be no monopoly on good idea , and the hon . Lady raise the important issue of how we adapt as a country to the climate crisis . we know we have a lot more to do , and we will listen to all good idea . in my constituency I be proud that we have the first example in the country of a high - energy use craft that have transition fully to renewable , have work with a UK manufacturer to create a super - efficient electric furnace . will the Secretary of State come to stourbridge and visit Allister Malcolm Glass at the Stourbridge Glass Museum with I , to highlight it as an example for other to follow , and protect high - energy use heritage craft across the country ? my hon . friend raise a great example , and I will take a risk and say yes , I will come to Stourbridge . I love Stourbridge , and I look forward to see that project . the Government ' s new Scope 3 guidance for offshore project be hugely welcome . we be already battle deadly heatwave and overshoot climate limit , so it be critical that we stop extract new oil and gas . give that there be no scenario in which Rosebank , or indeed any new oil and gas well be compatible with limit global temperature increase to 1 . 5 ° C , why be the Government try to delay recognition of that climate reality by say that application will be consider on a case - by - case basis ? will the Minister give we a conclusive science - back answer now , and confirm that Rosebank will not be go ahead ? of course the Government follow the regulation that we have put in place quickly , and application must be consider on a case - by - case basis — that be the way anyone would expect they to be deal with . I will not say on the Floor of the House any more about those application , as they be live decision that will be make in due course by the Department . what reassurance can the Minister offer the nearly 1 , 000 worker at Prax that the Government be 100 % focused on find a new owner for the Lindsey oil refinery ? I will repeat what I have say before : we be obviously hugely disappoint by the way that the owner have deal with the company . I repeat the ask that I have make in the House a number of time , and in write to the chief executive , that he should put his hand in his pocket and do the right thing by the workforce . we be do everything we can as part of the insolvency process safely to manage the refinery , and to look at whether there be buyer interested in take it on . the late central estimate from the Office for Budget Responsibility put the cost of achieve net zero by 2050 at £ 803 billion , with half that cost attribute to lose fuel duty . do the Secretary of State accept that the Government will need to increase duty elsewhere , include on renewable , which could push bill up far ? the most significant thing about the OBR report be that it say there be an 8 % threat to our gdp by 2070 in a 3 ° c world , and a 56 % rise in the debt to GDP ratio if we do not act on climate change . that be the most important thing from that report , which I recommend all hon . member read over the summer . I have receive numerous email from my constituent in Broxtowe , raise concern about the loss of or threat to meadow . meadow be critical to our environment and have be part of our natural heritage for century . they provide a wealth of benefit such as a unique wildlife habitat , flood alleviation and the promotion of clean air . without well protection , remain historic meadow and their ecological value risk vanish beneath our foot . will the Minister commit to include the protection of meadow in the list of irreplaceable habitat ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s concern . this be a matter for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , but I be happy to talk to colleague as they bring forward their land use framework . nature - base solution to climate change be important , so we very much engage with our colleague in DEFRA on these issue . solar developer be not play by the rule when it come to access the land of people on Ynys M ô n . government guidance state that developer must act reasonably when try to obtain permission to access the land , but my constituent have receive threatening email and there have even be case of developer trespass on land . do the Minister condone such behaviour , and do he believe that current guidance be strong enough to protect constituent such as mine ? I do not know the specific of the case that the hon . Lady raise — if she want to send any detail to I , I will certainly look at they . we clearly want to see and expect in every single case a partnership between developer deliver project that we think be important , the planning system responsible for put the process in place and the community who should have their local area protect and be able to access it . I be happy to follow up with she if she want to raise specific with I . the Vyrnwy Frankton project , which aim to connect onshore wind to the grid , would cut across my constituency and affect local community and cherish countryside , pose a threat to business and tourism . will the Minister assure I that the impact of the project and its associated lifetime cost will be minimise by undergrounde the cable along the route , except where geology make that impossible ? that be not the position of the Government , because report after report and the evidence point to the fact that undergrounde cable be significantly more expensive than put they above ground . individual application will clearly look at the individual circumstance and make a decision on that . we have say as a government that communitie that host network infrastructure should benefit through community benefit and direct money off bill , and that be what we will deliver . it be recently announce that the surplus Ministry of Defence land at RAF Wyton in my constituency have be designate as an MOD trailblazer site . the Housing Minister confirm to I last week that no assessment have yet be make of the energy infrastructure currently in place . the Prime Minister recently confirm to I here in the Chamber that my proposal to develop a defence technology cluster on the site would be support . to that end , be the Minister prepare to look into the available energy infrastructure and substation connectivity at the site and write to I with his assessment ? the hon . Gentleman be assiduous in raise these sort of question with I . I be very happy to look at the possibility . he be right to outline the potential of site such as that , and we will look at it . Nova Innovation in my constituency be pioneer float solar , which be generate clean energy . will my right hon . friend outline what step the Government be take to support the development of float solar ? that sound incredibly exciting , and I look forward to find out more . we have be use float solar technology in this country since 2016 . last month , the French start the large plant in Europe , produce 74 . 3 MW . the Chinese have single plant that produce 350 MW . give the scale of its use across the world , bar Britain , why do the Secretary of State refer to float solar as a nascent technology ? what be nascent about it ? it sound like I be be educate about float solar . I be happy to share the hon . Gentleman ' s enthusiasm for it ; if he have proposal about how we can take it forward , I be all ear . in France , Germany , Croatia and elsewhere on mainland Europe , geothermal energy be be take very seriously . I be disappoint that geothermal energy get little mention in the industrial strategy , particularly as there be estimate to be 30 GW of energy in the cornish granite batholith . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we clear the barrier to unleash the potential of the cornish granite batholith ? my hon . friend always raise the huge potential of Cornwall in this House and in the energy space . he be right to talk about the potential for geothermal ; we be hugely excited about the opportunity that it present . I be very happy to meet he and other to discuss far how we can take it forward . I be already be contact by constituent who be worried about afford their energy bill this winter , but do not feel that the service they get from the energy company be properly support they . what step be the Government take to ensure that energy company provide the support that they need ? we be very clear that energy company have strict obligation to follow . we be work with Ofgem to ensure that it adhere to those obligation , and we be do the job of review Ofgem to ensure that it be a proper consumer champion , with the mandate and power to work on behalf of consumer and reform this market so that it work in the interest of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . More than 100 INEOS chemical employee be to lose their job at Grangemouth because the refinery have close . the £ 200 million commitment to Project Willow do not help they in the here and now , and it be frankly an insult to the worker who be about to lose their livelihood to talk about training opportunity at Forth Valley college that be not be afford to they . what have the Government actually do and what will they do for those worker who do not have the same redundancy or training package as the refinery worker ? we be look in the round at how we can deliver job and opportunity on the Grangemouth site . the National Wealth Fund make an unprecedented commitment of £ 200 million , and I have be meet company that be potentially interested in develop project , to make sure we get they over the line . we have deliver on the training guarantee and deliver support beyond that provide by the Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal . we be do everything we can to support the workforce there , and we will continue to do so . Afghanistan with permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement on a significant datum protection breach from February 2022 relate to the afghan relocation and assistance policy . it lead to the High Court grant an unprecedented super - injunction and the previous Government establish a secret afghan resettlement route . today I be announce to the House a change in Government policy . I be close that resettlement route , disclose the data loss , and confirm that the Court order be lift at 12 noon today . member of this House — include you , Mr Speaker , and I — have be subject to the super - injunction . it be unprecedented . to be clear , the Court have always recognise the parliamentary privilege of proceeding in this House , and Ministers decide not to tell parliamentarian about the data incident at an early stage , as the widespread publicity would increase the risk of the Taliban obtain the dataset . however , as parliamentarian and as Ministers , it have be deeply uncomfortable to be constrain from report to this House . I be grateful to be able to disclose the detail to Parliament today . I trust that you , Mr Speaker , and member will bear with I if I take the time to ensure that the House now have the full information possible , as I discuss with you yesterday . the fact be as follow . in February 2022 , 10 month after the then Defence Secretary , Ben Wallace , introduce the afghan relocation and assistance policy and six month after the fall of Kabul , a Defence official email an ARAP case working file outside authorise Government system . as the House know , ARAP be the resettlement scheme that this country establish for afghan citizen who work for , or with , our UK armed force over the combat year in Afghanistan . both in opposition and in government , Labour have back that scheme , and ARAP have have full support from across this House . the official mistakenly believe that they be send the name of 150 applicant . however , the spreadsheet in fact contain personal information associate with 18 , 714 Afghans who have apply to either the ex gratia scheme or the ARAP scheme on , or before , 7 January 2022 . it contain name and contact detail of applicant and , in some instance , information relate to applicant ' family member . in a small number of case , the name of member of Parliament , senior military officer and Government official be note as support the application . this be a serious departmental error . it be in clear breach of strict data protection protocol , and be one of many datum loss relate to the ARAP scheme during this period . minister in the previous Government first become aware of the data loss in mid - August 2023 , 18 month after the incident , when personal detail of nine individual from the dataset appear online . action be take to ensure they be swiftly remove , an internal investigation be conduct , and the incident be report to both the Metropolitan police and the Information Commissioner . the Met deem that no criminal investigation be necessary , and the Information Commissioner have continue to work with the Department throughout . however , journalist be almost immediately aware of the breach , and the previous Administration apply to the High Court for an injunction to prevent the data loss become public . the judge deem that the risk warrant go far and , on 1 September 2023 , grant a super - injunction , which prevent disclosure of the very existence of the injunction . that super - injunction have be in place for nearly two year , during which time eight medium organisation and their journalist be serve to prohibit any reporting . no Government wish to withhold information from the british public , parliamentarian or the press in this manner . in autumn 2023 , previous Ministers start work on establish a new resettlement scheme specifically design for people in the compromise dataset who be not eligible for ARAP but who be nevertheless judge to be at the high risk of reprisal by the Taliban . it be know as the Afghanistan response route , or ARR . it be cover by the super - injunction . the then Government initially establish the ARR to resettle a target cohort of around 200 principal , but in early 2024 a combination of Ministers ' decision on the scheme ' s policy design and the court ' s view have broaden that category to nearly 3 , 000 principal . I want to provide assurance to the House and the british public that all individual relocate under the Afghanistan response route , ARAP or the Home Office ' s afghan citizen resettlement scheme undergo strict national security check before be able to enter our country . the full number of afghan arrival under all scheme have be report in the regular Home Office statistic , mean that they be already count in exist migration figure . as shadow Defence Secretary , I be initially brief on the ARR by James Heappey , the former Armed Forces Minister , on 12 December 2023 , and issue with the super - injunction at the start of that meeting . other member of the present Cabinet be only informed of the evidence of the data breach , the operation of the ARR , and the existence of the super - injunction on take office after the general election . by that time , the ARR scheme be fully establish and in operation , and it be nearly two and a half year since the data loss . I have feel deeply concerned about the lack of transparency to Parliament and to the public . I feel it only right to reassess the decision - make criterion for the ARR . we begin , straightaway , to take a hard look at the policy complexity , cost , risk , court hearing and the range of afghan relocation scheme be run by the previous Government . Cabinet colleague endorse the need for new insight in the autumn of last year , while the scheme keep run . in December 2024 , I announce the streamlining of the range of government scheme that we inherit into the afghan resettlement programme to establish well value for money , a single set of time - limit entitlement and support to get afghan family resettle . on behalf of the House , I sincerely thank our colleague in local government , without whom this unified resettlement programme would simply not have be possible . at the beginning of this year , I commission Paul Rimmer , a former senior civil servant and ex - deputy chief of Defence Intelligence , to conduct an independent review . the review be conclude and report to Ministers last month . today I be release a public version of Rimmer ' s review , and I be place a copy of it in the Library of the House . I be very grateful to he for his work . despite brutal human right abuse in Afghanistan , the Rimmer review note the passage of time — it be nearly four year since the fall of Kabul — and conclude : " there be little evidence of intent by the Taleban to conduct a campaign of retribution against " former official . it also conclude that those who pose a challenge to the Taliban rule now be at great risk of a reaction from the regime , and that " the wealth of datum inherit from the former government " by the Taliban " would already enable they " to target individual if they wish to do so , which mean that it be " highly unlikely " that merely be on the spreadsheet " would be the … piece of information enable or prompt the Taleban to act . " Rimmer be clear : he stress the uncertainty in any judgment and do not rule out any risk . yet he conclude that , give this update context , the current policy that we inherit " appear an extremely significant intervention … to address the potentially limited net additional risk the incident likely present . " the Rimmer review be a very significant element , but not the sole element , in the Government ' s decision to change policy , to close the ARR and to ensure that the court order be lift today . policy concern about proportionality , public accountability , cost and fairness be also important factor for the Government . this be not a decision take lightly ; it follow a lengthy process , include the Rimmer review , detailed ministerial discussion and repeat consultation with legal adviser . just as I have change Government policy in the light of the review , the High Court today , in the light of the review , rule that there be no tenable basis for the continuation of the super - injunction . to date , 900 ARR principal be in Britain or in transit , together with 3 , 600 family member , at a cost of about £ 400 million . from today , there will be no new ARR offer of relocation to Britain . from today , the route be closed . however , we will honour the 600 invitation already make to any name person still in Afghanistan and their immediate family . when this nation make a promise , we should keep it . today I be also restore full accountability for the Government ' s afghan relocation scheme to Parliament , and I would expect our Select Committees now to hold we to account through in - depth inquiry . let I turn to the practical action that we have take as a result of this policy change and in preparation for the lifting of the court ' s super - injunction . my first concern have be to notify as many people as possible who be affect by the data incident and to provide they with further advice . the Ministry of Defence have do that this morning , although it have not be possible to contact every individual on the dataset , owe to its incomplete and out - of - date information . anyone who may be concern can head to our new dedicated gov . uk website , where they will find more information about the data loss ; further security advice ; a self - checker tool , which will inform they whether their application have be affect ; and contact step for the detailed information service centre that the MOD have establish . this serious datum incident should never have happen . it may have occur three year ago , under the previous Government , but to all those whose information be compromise I offer a sincere apology today on behalf of the British Government , and I trust that the shadow Defence Secretary , as a former Defence Minister , will join I in that . to date , 36 , 000 Afghans have be accept by Britain through the range of relocation scheme . Britain have honour the duty we owe to those who work and fight alongside our troop in Afghanistan . the british people have welcome they to our country , and in turn , this be their chance to rebuild their life , their chance to contribute to and share in the prosperity of our great country . however , none of these relocation scheme can carry on in perpetuity , nor be they conceive to do so . that be why we announce on 1 July that we would no long accept new applicant to ARAP . however , I reiterate the commitment that we make then to process every outstanding ARAP application and relocate those who might prove eligible , and we will complete our commitment to continue the review of the Triples . I recognise that my statement will prompt many question . I would have like to settle these matter soon , because full accountability to Parliament and freedom of the press matter deeply to I — they be fundamental to our british way of life . however , life may have be at stake , and I have spend many hour think about this decision ; think about the safety and the life of people I will never meet , in a far - off land in which 457 of our servicemen and woman lose their life . so this weigh heavily on I , and it be why no Government could take such decision lightly , without sound ground and hard deliberation . during the last year we have conduct and now complete this work . I commend my statement to the House . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement and for receipt early this morning of a hard copy of the Rimmer review . I also thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the Armed Forces for brief I yesterday and other parliamentary colleague today . furthermore , give the nature of the super - injunction and the fact that the timing and nature of the statement relate entirely to the court ' s lifting of that super - injunction , I recognise that it be entirely right for the Secretary of State to update the House at the early opportunity , and I welcome the opportunity that colleague now have to scrutinise these matter . let I begin by declare an interest . I be a Defence Minister in August 2023 , when the Department first become aware of the breach , my main role be to chair one meeting on the matter in August 2023 because I be the duty Minister . thereafter , however , as Minister for Defence Procurement and with this sit outside my portfolio , I have relatively minimal direct involvement . that say , the Secretary of State have issue an apology on behalf of the Government and I join he in that , and in recognise that this data leak should never have happen and be an unacceptable breach of all relevant data protocol . I also agree that it be right for an apology to be issue specifically to those whose datum be compromise . it be nevertheless a fact that can not be ignore that when this breach come to light , the immediate priority of the then Government be to avoid a very specific and terrible scenario : namely , an error on the part of an official of the british state lead to the torture , or even murder , of person in the dataset at the hand of what remain a brutal Taliban regime . as the Rimmer review confirm , that scenario , thankfully , appear to have be avoid . of course , we understand that the review be set up in January and report to the Secretary of State in June . I want to be clear that it be entirely appropriate that the Secretary of State have seek to update the Department ' s understanding of the threat on the ground in Afghanistan that exist today , particularly for those person in the dataset who have previously be consider to be at the great risk of reprisal . however , the House will appreciate that when Ministers become aware of the data breach in August 2023 , we do not have the luxury of six month in which to assess the situation . as Rimmer say in paragraph 53 : " the review note that the passage of time be particularly relevant . " I know that my former ministerial colleague — the former Minister for the Armed Forces , James Heappey , who lead the response to the leak — will have be focus entirely on what he see as his duty of care to those at risk of reprisal , base on the threat assessment that pertain at the time . however , any threat picture be constantly evolve , and as I say , I support the Secretary of State ' s decision to review the MOD ' s understanding of the threat . give the late situation , as report by Rimmer , we support his conclusion that the Afghanistan response route can now be close . turn to the super - injunction , I entirely understand why this would be a subject of considerable interest , particularly to the newspaper and medium outlet concern . we have an independent judiciary , and it be not for I to comment either on the decision to grant the injunction in the first place or to lift it today , but it be surely tell that paragraph 56 of the Rimmer review state that plan at the time that the Government become aware of the breach in the summer of 2023 be base on a " risk judgement that be the Taleban to secure access to the dataset , the consequence for affected individual may be serious . " have that not be the case , no doubt the Court would have be less likely to grant the injunction , and certainly not a super - injunction . on the leak , can the Secretary of State confirm that it be by a civil servant , and that Ministers at the time take step to change the casework procedure by not use spreadsheet send by email , but move to a more secure system fully within the entirely secure network ? can he confirm that , although the dataset be of about 18 , 000 , only a relatively small portion be identify as at high risk of reprisal , and only a small number have be settle here , which be why , as he state , the cost be about £ 400 million , not the £ 7 billion report elsewhere ? now that these matter be rightly in the public domain and give the reassessment of the threat in the Rimmer review , I agree that it would be wholly appropriate for the Defence Committee and other to look far into these matter . can the Secretary of State comment on one specific item be report , which be that someone — I refer not to the person who make the leak , but another apparent third party who obtain some of the datum — be engage in blackmail ? do the original Metropolitan police investigation look at that , and if not , will he consider reopen it so that the police can look at that specific point , which have serious implication ? although we must recognise the huge role play by afghan national in support of our armed force , any policy in this area must always be balance against our own national interest . we support the Government in close the ARR scheme , as we do with their decision to close the full ARAP programme . I welcome the tone in which the shadow Defence Secretary have respond , and I welcome his join I in the apology on behalf of the British Government to those whose datum have be compromise . I also welcome his acceptance that , as he put it , it be " entirely appropriate " for the Defence Secretary , as part of a new Government , to look to update the Department ' s assessment of the threat . I be very pleased that , as the House will have note , he support Rimmer ' s conclusion and my policy judgment that the Government have announce today . the shadow Defence Secretary be right that , in simple term , Rimmer give we a revise , up - to - date assessment of the risk — in particular , the risk to those individual whose datum may be on that spreadsheet . he do confirm that it be highly unlikely that their name be on the dataset increase the risk of their be target . the shadow Defence Secretary ask I three or four specific question . he ask about the official — it be a defence official . I can not account for the improvement in datum handle that previous Ministers may have make , but when I do his job in opposition , this data leak be just one of many from the afghan scheme . I can also say that , in the past year since the election , the Government have appoint a new chief information officer , instal new software to securely share datum and complete a comprehensive review of the legacy afghan datum on the casework system . on the £ 7 billion figure , which I think the shadow Defence Secretary may have pick up from court paper , that be a previous estimate . it be relate not simply to the afghan response route but an estimate of the total cost of all Government afghan scheme for the entire period in which they may operate . on the significance of today ' s announcement and the policy decision that we have take compare with simply continue the policy and scheme that we inherit , the taxpayer will pay £ 1 . 2 billion less over the period , about 9 , 500 few Afghans will come to this country and , above all , proper accountability in this House and proper freedom of the medium be restore . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . although I welcome it and his intent to inject parliamentary transparency and scrutiny , this whole datum breach be a mess and wholly unacceptable . as I mention to the Minister for the Armed Forces during our recent secret briefing , I be minded to recommend to my Defence Committee colleague that we thoroughly investigate it to ascertain what have transpire , give the serious ramification on so many level . as thing stand , notwithstanding the content of the Rimmer review , how confident be my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary that the Afghans affect , many of whom bravely support our service personnel , will not be at risk of recrimination and reprisal ? I can only recommend that my hon . friend read in full the public version of the Rimmer report , which I have publish today . Rimmer set out conclusion and an update risk assessment , take an up - to - date view , recognise that the situation in Afghanistan be nearly four year on from the point at which the Taliban take control and that the present regime see those who may threaten the regime itself as a great threat to their operation than any former Government official or serve official . I recommend that my hon . friend read that report , and I expect that he , as the Defence Committee Chair , will want to take full advantage of this restore parliamentary accountability . I have always believe that our Select Committee system in this House be perfectly capable of , and well suit to , many of the in - depth inquiry that often get punt into public inquiry or call for such inquiry . I hope he will have note the fact that the shadow Defence Secretary also endorse that view . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for the Armed Forces for his briefing on this issue this morning . I be pleased this House now have the opportunity to scrutinise this alarming datum breach . it be right that the then Government move to introduce a new scheme to try to minimise the risk to the afghan soldier and their family catch up in this breach involve 18 , 714 individual in total . it be the very least we owe they give the sacrifice they make to support our campaign in Afghanistan , and I welcome the apology from both side of the House as a result of this data breach . there be , however , serious question raise about how this data breach be allow to happen under the Conservatives ' watch , and the heighten level of risk it have create for the Afghans involve . what step have be take to address the root cause of the breach and ensure that it can not happen again ? report by the Financial Times this afternoon suggest that an original relocation scheme consider for all 25 , 000 afghan personnel could cost up to £ 7 billion . will he confirm what assessment his Department have make of that figure , and why that be keep hide from the public ? the immediate priority must be to ensure the safety of all those individual catch up in this breach , so what assurance can the Secretary of State provide that lift the super - injunction do not heighten danger for the individual concern ? what step be he take to ensure that the individual whose datum be leak be aware of the incident ? what additional support be be provide to they directly now that the case be in the public domain ? in the light of these development , can he outline when the casework and final relocation under this and the ARAP scheme will be complete ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s response . I provide the answer to two or three of her question directly to the shadow Defence Secretary . on the step we have take to ensure the reduce risk of datum loss and data breach in future , one can never say never but I be more confident that I be 12 month ago . I have also give a response on the £ 7 billion figure . the estimate full cost of all afghan scheme that will run to their completion , from start to finish , because of the saving that will derive from the policy decision we have take today , will be between £ 5 . 5 billion and £ 6 billion . the cost of the ARR scheme to date — the cost and the sum commit to bring the 900 principal and their immediate family who be in Britain or in transit — be about £ 400 million . on those still to come , I expect the cost to be a similar sum . I think I say in my statement to the House that Rimmer recognise the uncertainty and the brutal nature of the Afghan Taliban regime . there can never be no risk in such judgment and decision , and that be one reason that I and the Government have take this decision with hard deliberation and serious intent . I hope the House will back it this afternoon . I be grateful to the ministerial team for my early briefing , which give I an opportunity to read a Foreign Affairs Committee report that come out — it be begin in September 2021 — in 2022 under the chairmanship of the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) . it be call " miss in action : UK leadership and the withdrawal from Afghanistan " and it be excoriate : " the manner of the withdrawal of international force from Afghanistan be a disaster , a betrayal of our ally , and weaken the trust that help to keep british people safe . " it say : " the Government should keep well record — securely hold — on locally - employ staff " — we have hear that this be one of the many datum loss from ARAP — " to ensure that any evacuation can be carry out more effectively . it should devise a policy , base on clear and fair principle , about the assistance that will be offer to local partner in the event of a security deterioration , and report to we when it have do so . " I hope that such a policy have be develop , that more lesson have be learn and that Ministers will report to my Foreign Affairs Committee about where we be now . I be sure Ministers will report to my right hon . friend ' s Committee if she invite we to do so . she be right to make the big argument that anyone provide datum to the British Government have a right to expect that personal datum to be store securely , handle safely and not subject to the sort of loss or breach that we see too often in the early day of the afghan relocation scheme . I call the Father of the House . I commend the Secretary of State for his honesty and I agree with everything he say in his statement . what an appalling mess , but part of the original sin be our intervene militarily and then scuttle out . on a wide point , may I take it that we have learn our lesson and have get over the liberal imperial itch of the Cameron and Blair era to intervene militarily in ungovernable country such as Iraq , Afghanistan , Syria and Libya ? let we now move on , but I support what the Secretary of State say . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his remark . I be certainly grateful for his support for my statement this afternoon . although he have not say it , he be a big champion of press freedom and I expect that he also recognise that an important part of our decision have be the period in which we have see no public knowledge , no media reporting and no parliamentary accountability . we set that right today . as a veteran of the war in Afghanistan , I be appal to watch the chaotic mismanagement follow the fall of Kabul that leave Afghans who serve alongside our troop and who work so hard for a well Afghanistan , dangerously expose . this be a situation that I fear would happen and could see come even when I serve in Afghanistan in 2017 . the fact be that the previous Government have plenty of warning that that situation could happen and fail to plan properly for it . this data breach join a litany of other data breach , delay and failure of our ally . do the Secretary of State agree that we must give our full support to those Afghans , so they can rebuild a new life in the UK ? I do indeed . I know from afghan family who be relocate in the early day to my own constituency in South Yorkshire that it be the voice of member on both side of the House , speak up in exactly the same term as my hon . friend just have and recognise the debt this country owe to many of those who work alongside or serve with our armed force and who make possible in the first place the very difficult job that our force undertake in Afghanistan , that provide a warm welcome , and they continue to do so . to those Afghans , we be offer a new home and a chance to rebuild their life and contribute to our country . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the tone of voice with which he deliver it . I command the Scots Guards in 2010 in Afghanistan , at the high watermark of violence . I be very well serve by Naz and Mukhtar , and I will always be grateful both to the Ministry of Defence for get they to Britain and to the community in this country who have welcome they to their new life here . I want to focus on a particular phrase the Secretary of State use . the shadow Secretary of State ask whether it be a civil servant who carry out the leak . the Secretary of State say it be a " defence official " and the Times be report that it be a soldier . I think it be worth clarify exactly whether it be a civil servant , a spad or a soldier , because conflate the term " defence official " to cover member of the armed force be something that might come back to bite the Secretary of State if he continue to do it . this be a data breach that take place three and a half year ago under the decision and leadership of the previous Government and previous Defence Ministers . the challenge this government face be far big than the action of one official that long ago . my full focus since the election in July last year have be to get to grip with the cost , the proportionality — or disproportionality — of the scheme in place , and the lack of accountability to Parliament , freedom of the press and public knowledge . it be that set of factor that have take up my time and my attention . I note that the shadow Secretary of State make great play of the change and the extra safeguard that Ministers of the previous Government put in place follow the breach . I also note that the Secretary of State say he have have to make more change and introduce new software . that suggest to I that the change put in place by the previous Government be not good enough . can I ask he this clearly ? who have knowledge of this incident in the 18 month after the data breach have take place before it reach Ministers ? how be there no check on anyone in the Department who have access to that sort of datum to ensure they be use it properly ? my hon . friend pose question to I in the House this afternoon that I simply can not answer . the event date from a period well before I take office . as he above all will appreciate , new Ministers have no access to the policy advice , the legal assessment , any of the paper or even the threat assessment that previous Government Ministers may have commission . I think that that subject be , if I may say so , proper material for the Defence Committee , on which he serve in such a distinguished way , to perhaps take a deep look at and to call witness on who may be in a well position to answer those question than I be this afternoon . finally , my hon . Friend ask about software . I be afraid I be one of the last people to be able to give an authoritative view on the question of cyber - security and up - to - date software , but the nature of this work mean that there be a constant requirement for new software and for update . the fact that we have take the step in the past 12 month that our expert and I have regard as necessary do not necessarily mean that the step take by previous Ministers be inadequate . what I can say , however , be that when I be the shadow Defence Secretary , we be aware of and expose in opposition the building backlog in casework , the regular data breach and the broken promise that sadly too often characterise the afghan relocation scheme , particularly in the early year . I , too , welcome the statement give by the Secretary of State today . as a member of the Defence Committee , I look forward to give this matter the scrutiny it deserve . I will not go into the detail of the report , but I think it be important to clarify , if the Secretary of State be able to do so , whether the data breach in question have in the past put or be now put any serve member of the UK armed force at risk ? I look forward to be call to give evidence to the hon . Gentleman ' s Committee if it do launch such an inquiry . to the good of my knowledge and belief , no serve member of our armed force be put at risk by the data loss . it be staggering to hear of yet another serious datum breach under the previous Conservative Government . do the Secretary of State — [ interruption . ] conservative Members can bicker from their Benches , but it be clearly a mistake make when they be in power . do the Secretary of State agree that we have inherit a chaotic and poorly manage system , and can he tell we what system have be put in place to correct that ? we must not see more system with official email an Excel spreadsheet — it absolutely beggar belief . can he confirm that this will never happen again ? my hon . friend be absolutely right in the criticism she level . I would just say , however , that I do not think any Minister could stand here and guarantee that there will never be another data breach , datum loss or data error in that way , in the same way that no chief executive of any organisation could say so . I can say that we have take step to reduce the risk of that happen and that we no long do any casework on spreadsheet , which be the technology that be available in the early day of this scheme . that be part of the problem , I think , in the inadvertent mistake make by the Defence official . what worry I more than the lifting of this super - injunction be the fact that we have close down all the afghan scheme at the very time that undocumente Afghans who feel it necessary to flee to Iran and Pakistan be be round up for forcible repatriation to an Afghanistan lead by the Taliban . I understand that the investigation into our obligation to the Triples — the special force that our force train — will continue , and I welcome that . will the Secretary of State confirm that despite the closure of the scheme , anybody who be find to have work closely with our armed force and be in imminent danger can still be rescue and admit to this country ? it be more than four year since the previous Defence Secretary , Ben Wallace , launch on behalf of this country the afghan relocation and assistance policy with the full support of this House . there have be ample time for anyone who could conceivably believe they might qualify to make their application . none of those scheme , include ARAP , be ever conceive or design to last in perpetuity , which be why we close they at the beginning of this month to any new applicant , and why I have take the decision , base on Rimmer and the other factor I have identify , to end the ARR scheme today . on the ARAP applicant — the sort of Afghans whom the right hon . Gentleman be concerned about — we will complete any remain application that be in our system wait to be process . on the Triples , we will complete the second phase of the review that we have give a commitment to they and to this House to undertake . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s support for parliamentary transparency and for the work of the Committee corridor in this House . I have no doubt that my excellent colleague who chair the various Committees that be responsible will do a thorough job of examine this matter , and I hope that the Secretary of State will facilitate the sharing of any information that may need to be handle in a sensitive manner . when Labour be last in government , there be a number of breach of this nature ; a predecessor of his ask to be notify of every one , and most be due to human error . it be great that we be update the IT system and deal with the security , but could the Secretary of State touch on the measure that will be put in place to guard against the human error that will inevitably creep in ? for function and role like this , have sound , secure caseworker software , good training and proper protocol — all of which be now in place — greatly minimise the risk that anything like this data breach , which we now find out take place in February 2022 , be likely to happen again . most importantly , I think it will help to provide the reassurance that anyone provide datum to the British Government or state should have that that datum will be hold and handle securely . if the Defence Secretary will forgive I , I detect some wriggling . the fact be that he be justify this super - injunction and not tell Parliament , the press , the public and , unbelievably , the Afghans who be potentially in harm ' s way . be it not the case that his argument be actually very thin ? even the MOD admit that Taliban - align individual already have access to the database , so not tell those Afghans that they be in harm ' s way be , quite frankly , unbelievable . the precedent of a super - injunction be very concern for this place . how do we know that there be not another super - junction about another leak ? of course , the Secretary of State could not tell we , could he ? well , I can say to the right hon . Gentleman that if there be another super - injunction , I have not be read in . in his characteristic way , he make an important point about how unprecedented , uncomfortable and , in many way , unconscionable it be to have a super - injunction like this in place . in the light of that , I hope he will accept that it be a difficult decision to review the risk , the cost and detail of the scheme , and the legal hearing that have take place . those have all be component of the important policy decision that I have be able to announce to the House today , and I hope he will back it . my husband serve in Afghanistan and have always feel keenly the debt that our country owe to those who work alongside and support our force , and I know that many of my constituent who serve there feel the same . if we fail to honour our debt , why should people in future conflict trust we and support our troop ? do the Defence Secretary share that concern ? do he also agree that it be right that we offer a warm welcome to the Afghans who come to our country seek sanctuary ? I agree 100 % , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend speak so plainly , so forcefully and so passionately . when we first debate the obligation to put in place the ARAP scheme four or five year ago , when I be shadow Secretary of State for Defence , one of the thing that strike I most be that those who feel fierce be , understandably , those who have serve — those in this House who have be part of the 140 , 000 british man and woman who have serve in Afghanistan over 20 year — because they recognise just what a debt this country and they owe to people like those whom my hon . friend ' s husband speak about . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s pledge to restore full accountability to the Government ' s relocation scheme , but I be sadden that this be the first opportunity that we have have to talk about the closure of ACRS and ARAP on the Floor of the House , give that they be announce by write statement at very short notice only two week ago . may I ask a couple of specific question ? on the ARR , which we have only find out about today , the Secretary of State mention 600 invitation that will be honour . for those who be not accept and be part of the breach , be they aware of that ? ARAP have be close to new application , but , again — I have ask the Minister of State for the Armed Forces about this before — what be the communication strategy for update they ? the ACRS be never open to vulnerable woman and the civil right defender it aim to protect . again , what communication will the Government have with those individual who be in hiding either in Afghanistan or in third country ? we make a statement about the closure of the Home Office - run ARAP and acr on 1 July , and the hon . Lady will have have opportunity since then to raise those matter in the House . on the information to those who may be affect , we will honour the invitation that have be issue to 600 ARR individual . to everyone else in the dataset , we have communicate the late position this morning . we be offer access to further advice through the designated area of the gov . uk website , and that include step that individual can take , if they wish , to get in touch with our information service centre , which have be set up by the MOD to deal with question and concern that people may have . it be a very shocking story that the Secretary of State have tell we today , and I pay tribute to he for his commitment to be transparent about it . sadly , this come as no surprise to many of we here and to those in our office who , over that period of time , have to deal with hundred of desperately distraught people ring in to find out what might happen to their relative . I have to be honest with the Secretary of State : this matter be not closed . I join the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) in be desperately concerned that we still have people who would have qualify under these scheme , but who , because of failure like this , flee Afghanistan or try to go to other country . we try to raise this issue with Ministers , but could not get meeting with they , and now we discover that there be secret scheme . the Secretary of State will understand that , right now , mps ' office across this country will be hear this and be worried that , again , they will get those phone call and have those query . he be right to say that there must be parliamentary scrutiny . can he assure we that there will be additional resource to help we support our constituent who come forward and that he will keep an open mind that , even four year later , there will still be case that be relevant to this scheme that should be hear — people who should be give sanctuary here — if we be to honour our debt to those people who keep our force safe ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have be one of the most active and most assiduous member of this House in champion the cause of her constituent and other who may be try to get access to the scheme . it have be over four year since the ARAP scheme be first establish , and there be still 22 , 000 ARAP applicant whose application will be process . where eligibility be establish , they will be offer the relocation that this country have undertake to give they . those applicant need not have apply from Afghanistan , but many do so . from the outset , one of the most important feature of the ARAP scheme — give that the Taliban have take over in Afghanistan — be that it apply to female Afghans who formerly work alongside our own force and even serve in the afghan force alongside our own , who have potentially be at great risk . for they , the offer to relocate to this country , and to rebuild and re - establish a life here , have be very important . I commend the Secretary of State for the calm and sensible way in which he have announce the change in Government policy today . I can already announce to the House that , since the briefing early today , I have make preliminary arrangement for MOD official to address the Public Accounts Committee to examine the cost implication . some £ 400 million have be spend so far , and I think the Secretary of State say in parenthesis that another £ 400 million will be spend on the 600 people currently base in Afghanistan who have receive invitation under the scheme . can he give I and the House an assurance that if those 600 people , who must be in some danger , do need assistance , it will be rapidly provide ? the hon . Gentleman be very fast off the mark , and I be glad that he have already issue his invitation to his Committee . he be ask for figure as Chair of the PAC . the cost of what have be spend and commit in order to get in transit to Britain the 900 principal eligible under ARR , plus their immediate family member , be around £ 400 million . for the remain member of the ARR and their immediate family who have be issue invitation , we expect something similar again . but because of the policy decision that we have be able to announce and the change that we have be able to make to the programme we inherit — he may want to probe this with his Committee — it mean that the taxpayer should be pay £ 1 . 2 billion less over the next few year , and that around 9 , 500 few Afghans will come to this country . I welcome the Government ' s decision to support the lifting of the super - injunction today and bring this awful matter properly into the public domain . do the Secretary of State agree that it be right and proper that this issue be now fully scrutinise by Parliament ? I do , indeed . one important feature for I in be able to make this statement and to set out the detail before the House this afternoon have be that we be now restore the proper parliamentary accountability of Ministers to this House for the decision that we take , the scheme that we run and the spending that we commit on behalf of the taxpayer . I look forward to member in this Chamber — and , I hope , in the appropriate Committees — undertake their proper constitutional role in a way they have not be able to do over the past two year without be constrain . this have be a difficult statement for the Secretary of State — make no mistake . he say in his statement that this be a breach of very strict data protection protocol . well , on the basis of this breach and the other breach around afghan resettlement , those protocol be clearly not strict enough . he have decline to say whether it be a contractor , a civil servant or a member of service personnel . I do not think that anyone in this House want to know who it be , but I would like to know how senior that person be . if it be a junior member of MOD staff , the delinquency be both systemic and personal , but if it be a senior member of MOD staff , the delinquency be purely personal on the basis of their knowledge and seniority . this instance relate to brave Afghans , but what reassurance can the Secretary of State give we that the brave personnel of the UK force would not be compromise by a level of delinquency similar to this in the MOD — and why the synchronicity between the lifting of the super - injunction and the ending of the scheme ? should we not walk a mile in the shoe of the people who have flee the afghan regime , and do should we maybe think whether we need an ARR - plus wash - up to get these people out of danger if it become a reality ? I want this House to hear the policy decision that I have make and I want this House to hear they first . the judge , aware of the decision that the Government have take and the announcement that I be plan to make today , take his decision to lift the super - injunction and to deliver his court judgment at noon . on the question of the individual responsible for the original data loss , that be not something I be prepared to pursue in this House . clearly the overarching responsibility be with the Ministers at the time . my full focus have be to get to grip with what we inherit , take a fresh look at the policy that be in place , and be in a position — with the proper degree of deliberation , and with sound ground — to come to the House and announce the change I have this afternoon . as I be sure many member do , I feel a sense of anger that once again the afghan people have be betray . I thank the Secretary of State for his candour and his response , and for lift the super - injunction , which will allow proper parliamentary scrutiny , but will he assure I that the follow three question will be answer ? first , how be a year allow to pass between the initial leak and it be uncover ? secondly , how be an email with a spreadsheet attach consider a serious way to send around what effectively amount to a kill list of Afghans for the Taliban ? thirdly , the role of James Heappey in oversee this have be mention . what role , if any , be hold by the two Secretaries of State for Defence over that time , one who serve until August 2023 and one who serve from August 2023 — to my mind , either side of the information come to light ? if we do not get to the bottom of those question , we will do an immense disservice to the british people and , bad , to Afghans , who have be let down once again . my hon . friend signal some of the area that the necessary parliamentary scrutiny will consider . I have to say , it be 18 month , not one year , between the original data loss and when it be first discover and bring to Ministers ' attention in August 2023 . to his second question about the spreadsheet , this be a period in which official and the Department be work at breakneck speed to put in place novel scheme that be urgently need . clearly that sort of spreadsheet software be inappropriate for this casework system , and it be no long use in that way . finally , on the role of my predecessor , Grant Shapps be the Defence Secretary who oversee the design , extension and establishment of the ARR scheme . as well as risk life , this extraordinary error have cost taxpayer huge sum . the Secretary of State say that it will now cost £ 1 . 2 billion less , but what will be the total cost of all these scheme after that ? first , give the extraordinary lack of transparency that this Parliament have be subject to — and voter too — will the Secretary of State agree to publish the legal advice that lead to the expansion of the ARR and other scheme so that we can properly discuss it ? secondly , the Secretary of State do not mention any official resign or be sack over this extraordinary episode . I think my constituent will find that quite surprising . will he name the number of people who have resign or be sack over this extraordinary error , and if nobody have be , do he agree that that be wrong ? I be not in a position to make a decision about publish the legal advice that lead the previous Government and Defence Secretary to extend the scheme . it be not legal advice that I have have access to or see . on the question of cost , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , will do the job . I can confirm that the total cost of all afghan relocation scheme to date , for those 36 , 000 Afghans who have be bring to this country , be around £ 2 . 7 billion . the expect cost over the entire lifetime of those scheme , to bring in anyone who may subsequently prove eligible , be between £ 5 . 5 billion and £ 6 billion . that be at least £ 1 . 2 billion less because of the policy decision I have take this afternoon . I thank the Secretary of State for his openness and transparency , and for his apology , and I thank Portsmouth city council for its involvement in afghan resettlement scheme , which have help many of those who serve alongside my Portsmouth North constituent . I welcome today ' s decision . the Government rightly take time to consider all the option and examine the complexity , include through the Rimmer review . they consider the cost to taxpayer and the safety of those affect , alongside the need for transparency and openness in this House and to the press and the public . do the Secretary of State agree that we must , as a Government , reaffirm our commitment to public transparency ? I do agree , and this House be do so this afternoon in response to my statement . the role that my hon . friend ' s local council in Portsmouth and council across the country be play in make sure that there be a warm welcome and a unified afghan resettlement programme in place for those Afghans and their family who we be welcome into this country be remarkable . we thank they for that . Central Government and this House could not see these scheme operate effectively without our local council . I commend the Secretary of State ' s statement . I will not dwell on the past , because I be sure that the Defence Committee and other Select Committees will have a look at that . I want to ask he about where this go in future . all these scheme be close , but there be still people out there who do not recognise the statement in the report that there be no long a widespread campaign of target individual . I have one case in my mind . the Minister for the Armed Forces know exactly who I be refer to : Sami Atayee , who have flee and be in hiding in Pakistan , and whose brother have be arrest during the pursuit . he be not directly employ by the British Government — he could not have be , for security reason — but the testament of General Olly Brown and other all say that he save life for british serviceman and servicewoman . we surely owe people like that a debt of honour and gratitude for their work , so I simply ask the Secretary of State to look at what might replace the scheme that he have get rid of , which be inflexible , very narrow and often leave out those who really do this Government a service . I would be grateful if he come up with some flexible idea that allow some of these people to seek succour here in the United Kingdom . I hesitate to be too blunt with the right hon . Gentleman , because I have a great deal of respect for he . if any applicant be not eligible under the criterion of the scheme that this House have approve and the Government have in place and operate , that can really only lead to one decision . he encourage I to look in a creative way at other option . my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces be very familiar with the case that the right hon . Gentleman raise . we will look at it again , but I do not want to raise false hope for he , or for the man whom he describe so vividly , and with such concern . I be proud that Bracknell Forest be involve in the afghan resettlement programme , and be offer transitional support to the brave Afghans who risk their life to support our troop . any such scheme depend on public trust , so it be concern to hear that under the Conservative Government , we instead have secrecy , security breach and a super - injunction . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to reaffirm two commitment : first , that this Government will continue to honour the moral obligation we owe to the Afghans who fight alongside our troop , and , secondly , that we will do so in a way that reaffirm this Government ' s commitment to public transparency ? I will indeed reaffirm our continue commitment to honour the obligation and duty that we owe to those who serve or work alongside our force . through the ARAP scheme , we will complete the processing of any outstanding application , and any who prove eligible will get full relocation and resettlement support . I be glad to be able to restore a degree of that parliamentary scrutiny and transparency that our system in Britain depend on . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . he say : " when this nation make a promise , we should keep it . " I agree . in the chaos of withdrawal , my constituent who leave under ARAP be make a promise by british official that his pregnant wife could follow he . two year later , we have still not keep that promise . my constituent ' s wife and child continue to move around in Afghanistan to evade the Taliban , and my constituent be so desperate that he be talk about return to Afghanistan — despite the risk to he — to be reunite with they . the Minister for the Armed Forces , who know the case , have tell I that the Ministry of Defence will not consider it , and that this be now a matter for the Home Office . in the light of that , will the Secretary of State repeat his commitment that our nation should keep its promise to my constituent ? will he undertake to discuss with the Home Secretary how her Department will ensure that such case be afford proper treatment in the light of our commitment to the afghan people ? I will take a look at the case and , if require , I will speak to my right hon . friend and colleague , the Home Secretary . I pay tribute to all the diplomat and armed force involve in what be clearly an extraordinary operation . it be a stark reminder that our asylum system — despite the demagoguery we sometimes hear in this place — often represent a sacred duty to those who put their life at risk for we and our ally . will the Secretary of State confirm that while the ARR be now close , we will continue to process case of those in the ARAP scheme since 1 July , include the one that I have raise with official ? my hon . friend speak powerfully . where there be outstanding ARAP application , they will be process . where there be outstanding Triples case that fall into the second phase of the review , that review will be complete , and where eligibility for ARAP entitlement be establish , that will be honour . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement , but I think it ask a lot more question than it answer . will he outline exactly how the dataset come to be accidentally email ? will he confirm that it be indeed an accident ? what be the security classification of that dataset ? who be the dataset email to , give that it be now fear to be in the hand of the Taliban ? I appreciate that he might not be able to answer some of those question , but give that this happen three year ago , what level of investigation have take place ? can that be publish ? I think that I report early to the House that the incident under previous Ministers be report to the Metropolitan police . it be also report to the Information Commissioner . the Met police deem no criminal investigation or further action to be require . the Information Commissioner still have the case — we be work closely with they — and I would expect some conclusion and judgment from the Information Commissioner ' s Office before too long , but I simply can not say when . I run an aid agency when the Taliban come to power in 2021 and vividly recall try to get the then government to help with the evacuation of brave afghan colleague , aid worker and human right defender — people who have serve humanity — under huge threat . I remember the confusion that reign in the UK Government . to hear that the life of ten of thousand of afghan civilian be far put at risk by this data breach be deeply shocking . the Defence Secretary will know that under the Taliban , afghan woman and girl be endure the world ' s most severe woman ' s right crisis . do he agree that the UK must do all it can to support the woman and girl of Afghanistan in realise their right to equality ? I do . where female Afghans be eligible for the scheme , it have be important that they have be able to apply , and we have be able to offer they the same relocation and resettlement as other . my hon . friend speak with great authority and passion about that period in Afghanistan four year ago , when the Taliban be take over as Kabul fall . I be sad to say that her characterisation of policy confusion and programme failure be exactly what be go on in the british Government at that time . the Secretary of State will know that community in Wales , as across the UK , have be proud to welcome those Afghans and their family who serve alongside UK personnel . many colleague have raise concern about the Afghans who might remain in Afghanistan or in adjacent country and may still be in danger for their service render . how confident can we be that all those in severe and imminent danger of reprisal will receive invitation for resettlement ? those who have receive invitation will have those honour . on the concern that the hon . Member may have about the assessment of risk in Afghanistan , I recommend that he read Paul Rimmer ' s report , which be comprehensive and up to date . it inevitably contain some uncertainty , and it identify the risk that be inevitably there in any policy judgment that Government Ministers like I must make . I will also reinforce the point that the hon . Member make about the welcome and the pride with which the Welsh people embrace those Afghans who come to rebuild their life in our country . my constituent have an active application to bring member of his family , who be currently in a third country , to safety in the UK . the MOD have advise he to assume that their datum have be compromise , which be deeply concern give the nature of the work he use to undertake . he have be tell that this third country can not be support , even though his family might not be safe in Afghanistan . will the Secretary of State help to ensure that his case be accelerate , give the further danger that the data leak may have put his family in ? if my hon . friend write to I with the detail of that case , I will certainly take a hard look at it . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his well - choose , careful , contrite word , which be say in a tone that the House appreciate . as an MP who have often decry the abandonment of those Afghans who help to secure safety for our troop , and whose job put they in the firing line , I must agree with the principle of do the right thing , and be a nation that be see globally as support those who support we . the issue of secrecy to the House be critical ; the Secretary of State have outline that . do he agree that government must always totally protect those who be put in harm ' s way , under the principle of do what it be always right to do ? I think of my constituent who serve along with our force in Afghanistan , and whose afghan friend be in hiding in Pakistan with his wife and three child . I think of he and the fear he be in . if I send the Secretary of State the detail of that gentleman and his family , will he ensure that he get the help we should give he ? that be what my constituent want , what I want as his MP , and what that person want . I appreciate the way in which the hon . Gentleman raise his concern about that case . if he write to I with the detail , I will take a hard look at it . I serve twice in Afghanistan alongside some of the brave soldier , judge and woman ' s right defender I have meet . after the fall of Kabul , I be base in Pakistan with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , where I be involve in the evacuation from Afghanistan . at that time , despite the excellent work of people who serve in Op Pitting , we see many mistake make by the last government , include dog be prioritise ahead of people . this data breach , which be hold secret for year , be just the late embarrassment from that evacuation . will the Secretary of State consider a Select Committee inquiry into not just the breach in this case , but the entire afghan relocation system , which have fail so many time ? one of the great joy of this House be the depth and breadth of experience that member on all side bring to debate . I applaud my hon . friend and the insight he bring from his experience in Afghanistan and Pakistan . it be certainly not for Ministers to define the term of any inquiry that a Select Committee of this House may choose to undertake . that will be a matter , quite properly , for those Committees . if minister be summon and require to account and give evidence , we certainly will . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . over the weekend a member of staff in the Commons , Muhbeen Hussain MBE , be publicly defame online by several conservative mp , include member of the shadow Front Bench . follow threat of legal action , the defamatory post be delete by some , but the damage be already do . this behaviour not only do reputational damage , but give the current discourse , bring serious harm and , potentially , risk to life . what advice do the Speaker ' s Office have for member in this House and in the other place who abuse the power dynamic of their elect office to defame openly a young staffer who also work in this House , while quietly delete their tweet without an apology ? do that fall short of the standard expect of those who serve in this House and would it be proper for they to apologise ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Chair be not responsible for Members ' comment on social medium , but I be sure the Table Office will be able to advise on how to pursue the matter far . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday in Westminster Hall the debate on the Northern Ireland veteran petition take place . give that this be an exceptionally sensitive and emotive issue , Westminster Hall be at full capacity , and many veteran be in attendance and many more be watch online , do you feel that it be appropriate conduct for the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) to shout across the floor that I , a military veteran discuss emotive and exceptionally challenging veteran issue , should " show some courage " , in a way that be clearly audible for all to hear ? give the nature and importance of the issue we be attempt to debate , that the remark be shout from a sedentary position , that the hon . Member be the shadow Secretary of State for Defence and that I and many colleague find it to be wholly inappropriate and insulting to infer that I lack courage , do you feel that that be acceptable parliamentary language ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order and , I believe , for confirm that he notify the hon . member for South Suffolk . the remark he refer to be not record in Hansard . none the less , I remind all hon . member that good temper and moderation be the characteristic of parliamentary language and that heckle from a sedentary position from either side of the House do nothing to enhance the quality of debate . Bill present Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary David Lammy , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary John Healey , Stephen Doughty , and Luke Pollard present a Bill to give effect to , and make provision in connection with , an agreement between the government of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Mauritius concern the Chagos Archipelago . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 285 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 285 - EN ) . Human Fertilisation and Embryology ( Regulation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the regulation of online provider of fertility and certain ancillary service by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority ; and for connected purpose . have a child be variously view as one of the most life - change , exhausting , expensive , thankless , frustrating and ultimately magical and rewarding thing we ever do in our life . my two son sometimes drive I round the bend , but I quite literally love they more than anything in the world . for many people , have a child require a form of fertility treatment ; in fact , one in six couple in Britain be affect by infertility problem . More than 52 , 000 people access fertility treatment in 2023 — the most recent year for which statistic be available . for perspective , that be up from 6 , 000 in 1991 . in the past 25 year , the proportion of child be bear by in vitro fertilisation have double . the regulator for the fertility industry , the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority , report that there be now enough child bear by IVF for there to be one in every classroom around the UK . that be for a number of reason . it be worth celebrate that since 1991 social attitude towards woman get into and stay in work have progress even far ; there be now 10 % more woman in employment . sometimes , however , build a successful career can make it hard to build a family . one in 10 fertility treatment be undertake by single woman , and the average age of those woman be slightly old , at 36 . although the proportion of young adult in the UK who identify as lesbian , gay or bisexual have double in the last five year , the Government amend the law that regulate fertility access to remove the barrier for female same - sex couple for the first and only time in 2008 , and that be what we be here today to discuss : apart from that one change , regulation have remain static while industry , attitude and lifestyle have race ahead . the Human Fertility and Embryology Act 1990 regulate fertility clinic , and despite the fertility landscape constantly modernise and move with the time , that piece of legislation have remain largely unchanged since it be pass 35 year ago . the failure of the regulatory regime to oversee adequately the uniquely high - stake world of modern fertility treatment be throw into sharp relief recently with the unexpected closure of Apricity Fertility . act as a hub that connect parent to the very complex web of fertility service , it be effectively a digital concierge service , link woman with partner clinic and offer advice and support , yet not provide any of the medical service itself . just day before Christmas , on 20 December , Apricity Fertility notify customer that it would cease all operation from 1 January . while family across the country be open their Christmas present , hundred of Apricity customer , include woman who be just about to start their IVF injection , be open email that would ruin their Christmas and leave they in limbo at a very crucial point in their fertility treatment . patient scramble to seek confirmation from clinic that they could continue with their treatment , because as we know , even a month ' s delay can massively affect the chance of a successful cycle . in many case , have already spend every single penny that they have in the world in the pursuit of have a baby , some be tell by their insurer that they would have to pay thousand more up front to continue their treatment . we know that IVF be a physically demanding and incredibly emotionally fraught process . IVF cycle be more likely to be unsuccessful than successful , but Apricity boast an above - average success rate of 46 % . as IVF . net state , therefore , for hundred of couple , Apricity ' s closure be " more than a logistical hurdle — it be a devastating emotional blow . " even bad , family who have sign up Apricity be not offer the peace of mind that a regulator provide , because it be not regulate ; it be an unlicensed online clinic . that mean that the health and advice on offer could have be complete rubbish and could have be back by no expert knowledge at all — and such online service be expand in scope and number . the HFEA have warn : " for some time a range of activity market as fertility treatment have take place outside of HFEA license clinic in a variety of setting , include ' wellness ' clinic . more recently , the fertility market have start to move online , in setting which be outside of the regulated scheme " . More people be access the fertility market and treatment than ever before , and particularly in that way . though the HFEA can not put an exact number on that , precisely because such service fall outside its regulatory scope , give that 73 % of IVF cycle be fund privately , it be likely to be a very large proportion . in recognition of the change landscape , and with patient trust and safety in mind , the HFEA recommend in 2023 that the 1990 HFE Act " should be revise to accommodate development in the way fertility service be provide . " I know that Health Ministers have meet the chair of the HFEA to discuss update the regulatory regime around fertility treatment , but such change will require primary legislation . I have have no firm commitment that the Government be seek a change in the law , but the case of Apricity have underscore the urgent need to safeguard patient ' right to their datum , their egg and their sperm . this be a classic case of regulation just not keep pace with modern life . it be criminal that organisation that be in the business of make dream come true can just disappear , along with people ' s money and their hope of start a family . the Chancellor have make it clear that she be no fan of regulator , but in the field of medical treatment and specifically the process of IVF , a strong regulatory regime be absolutely vital to ensure confidence and security , so I urge Ministers and Members across the House to support my Bill , to bring in the recommendation of the HFEA and to support woman and family at one of the most important stage of their life . question put and agree to . order , that Dame Caroline Dinenage , Katie Lam , Liz Jarvis , Aphra Brandreth , Sir Ashley Fox , Joe Robertson , Christine Jardine , Jim Shannon , Sarah Champion , Florence Eshalomi , Samantha Niblett and Wendy Morton present the Bill . dame Caroline Dinenage accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 284 ) . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at today ' s sit , business in the name of the Leader of the opposition shall be treat as be take on an allotted day provide under paragraph ( 2 ) of Standing Order no . 14 ( arrangement of public business ) ; such business may be enter upon at any hour and may be proceed with , though oppose , for up to six hour after the start of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; proceeding shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) opposition Day - [ 9th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Welfare Spending I inform the House that Mr Speaker have not select any amendment . I call the shadow Secretary of State to move the motion . I beg to move , that this House believe the two - child benefit cap should remain in place and that household with a third or subsequent child bear from 6 April 2017 claim Universal Credit or Child Tax Credit should not receive additional funding , because those who receive benefit should make the same decision about have child as those who do not ; far believe that lift the cap would exacerbate a benefit culture which be unfair on the taxpayer who pay for it and unfair on those who become trapped on benefit , because those who can work , should work ; and generally support further change to reduce welfare spending and ensure that benefit be there only for those who need they . all of we have to make difficult choice in life about what we can afford . many of we here be fortunate , but one of those choice will have be the number of child we have . we may wish that such an important decision be not taint by something as unromantic as money , but that be the hard fact of the matter . child be wonderful — I say that as the mum of three teenager — but bring they up be an expensive business . as conservative we believe in the importance of family , in personal responsibility , in fairness , and as family and as a society , in live within our mean . that be why today we be call on all member to affirm our commitment to a policy that reflect those principle . let I take a step back for a moment and reflect on the situation we be in as a country . we have 28 million people in Britain who be now work to pay the wage , benefit and pension of 28 million other . More than half of all household receive more in benefit and benefit in kind than they have pay in taxis . to spell that out , more people be net recipient than net contributor . that be happen right now , and with every day that pass , spend on benefit be go up and up . health and disability benefit alone be set to hit £ 100 billion by the end of the decade . that be more than we spend on defence , on education and on police . while it might seem kind to spend more on welfare , it be not . it be not kind to those trap in the welfare system and write off to a lifetime on benefit . as we embark on a doom loop of uncontrolled spending , high taxis , struggle business , entrepreneurial exodus , rise unemployment and then more people out of work and on benefit , it be not kind to those who lose their job and their income in that cycle of misery . if the moment come when we can not afford to provide welfare even to those in desperate need , it most definitely will not be kind to they , the very people our welfare safety net be mean to be there for . the shadow Minister talk about kindness . do she agree , therefore , with the Children ' s Commissioner for England , who have say that child in England be now live in " dickensian level " of poverty ? a principal element of that be the two - child cap . what element of kindness do the shadow Minister see present in that unfairness ? I do not agree with the hon . member . I be go to talk about poverty in a moment , so if he will just hold on , he will hear my view on that point . this be a tick time bomb . if we do not solve this problem , our economy will collapse , yet opposite I sit member of this Labour Government who have just show we , with the welfare chaos over the past couple of week , that they will not , and indeed can not , fix this . in fact , they be just make it bad . if hon . member cast their mind back to early 2020 , they will remember that Labour be in the midst of a leadership election . the now Prime Minister make a clear and unequivocal commitment to " scrap … punitive sanction , two - child limit and benefit cap . " then , once he have secure the leadership of the Labour party and the election near , he change that tune . he say Labour be not go to abolish the two - child limit . he acknowledge the need to take tough decision and not to make unfunded spending promise , and on this we can agree . but say that he would take tough decision be not the same as actually take they . take for example the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , now just call the Universal Credit Bill , which Labour vote through last week . it be mean to save £ 5 billion . the first u - turn bring that down to £ 2 billion , and the next u - turn then bring it down to — well , the Minister on the Front Bench at the time could not tell we , but the consensus be that it will now cost the taxpayer around £ 100 million . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do she agree that , as a result of that Bill , one of the thing that be most shocking be that in due course it will actually pay someone more to be on welfare than to work full time on the minimum wage ? my hon . friend make an important point about the problem of a welfare trap , where people would well be well off on benefit than work full time on the minimum wage . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will first make a little progress , but then I will be happy to give way to the hon . Lady . last week ' s welfare fiasco see a Bill that be mean to save money become a Bill that will cost money . we have also see the fiasco of the winter fuel payment cut , with the Government have to row back on their tough talk because take money from low - income pensioner be not , in fact , the way to make saving . and now we be debate the future of the two - child limit , which Cabinet Ministers , include the Prime Minister , have indicate be the next tough choice that they be not go to make . my hon . friend talk about tough choice . do she agree that family that be in work make tough choice every single day , about what they can afford and how they spend their money , and that those who receive benefit should really have to make the same tough choice ? my hon . friend make an important and thoughtful point . many family , whether they be live off benefit or in work , would like to have more child but have to make these difficult choice about what they can afford . this be a point about fairness . I know that many Labour Members passionately believe that the limit should go , and they will make argument today about child poverty as if they be the only one who care about it — [ interruption . ] for the avoidance of doubt , that be not true . our difference of opinion be about what to do about it . I think all of we be at a loss to know what the Prime Minister believe in . by contrast , we know what we believe in and we know why we be here . that be why we have bring forward this debate on the two - child limit , because somebody have to make the case for fiscal responsibility , for live within our mean , for fairness , for ensure that work pay and for keep the two - child cap . I want to be clear that all of we — include those of we on the Opposition Benches — want child to have the good possible start in life . let we also be clear about what the two - child limit actually be , because I note that some member from other party be confused . the two - child limit restrict the amount of additional universal credit that family receive for have child to the first two child only , with some sensible exception , such as for twin or non - consensual conception . the cap do not apply to child benefit , which be available to all family with income of up to £ 80 , 000 for every child , regardless of the number of child in a family . I be proud to be a member of the party of Wilberforce , Shaftesbury and Disraeli , who all understand that it be essential to free people from need , and that in that effort the state can be a force for good . but in free people from need we should not limit they to a life of dependency . it be entirely possible to believe that although welfare can be a force for good , so too can personal responsibility , and responsibility mean make the kind of choice that my hon . friend have set out . I could not put it well than my right hon . friend . we know that bring up child be expensive and important . when working couple have to make tough decision about whether they can afford to start a family in the first place , they should not be make to pay more in taxis to fund their neighbour to have a third , fourth or fifth child . someone in a job do not get pay more just because they have another child . if we be worried about people get catch in a benefit trap where it pay more to be on welfare than in work , how much bad would it be with neither the two - child benefit nor the benefit cap ? it would mean benefit increase by thousand . when I say thousand , the House of Commons Library have tell I that a family with five child would get more than £ 10 , 000 extra a year and a family with eight child would get more than £ 20 , 000 extra a year . that be more than the after - tax income of someone work full time on the minimum wage . do the hon . member seriously believe that any family anywhere in the country will take seriously the conservative party lecture they on personal and fiscal responsibility , when this be the party that not only bring the economy to its knee through the uncosted promise of Liz Truss ' s Government , but partie in the back garden of no . 10 when the rest of we be under covid restriction ? if I could take the hon . Lady back a bit , she might remember when we come into office in 2010 , and we have to bring down the deficit year after year to get the country ' s finance under control . give child the good start in life be not as simple as hand out more money . it be about give parent the community support they need as they encounter the challenge of bring up a child , which be why we launch the family hub . it be about education , but school teacher around the country be be let go . it be about grow up in a household with someone in work , but across the country people be be make redundant because of the Chancellor ' s job tax . I know that I will not win over everyone here with my argument . for instance , I do not expect to convince the four remain reform mp , because their leader have say that he would remove the two - child limit — the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) believe that be the right thing to do and say that he be not finish yet on benefit giveaway . but ask the taxpayer for ever more in taxis to pay for their neighbour ' s benefit be not the right thing to do . the country , taxpayer and future generation can not afford this . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and Cabinet Ministers have be unable to rule out more tax rise this autumn . business , work people , pensioner , saver , homeowner — whose pocket will be pick next ? last week , the Office for Budget Responsibility warn that the UK ' s finance be in a very " vulnerable position " . now more than ever we need the Government to take the tough decision — but will they ? I know Labour Back Benchers be itch to vote to scrap the limit , but where be the Government on this ? will they take the position of the Prime Minister in 2020 , in 2024 or now , or will they have to abstain because the Government just do not know ? soon we will see . only the Conservatives understand the importance of personal responsibility , fairness and live within our mean . labour , the Lib Dems , the SNP , the Greens and Reform all vote last week for more welfare spending . will they do the same today , or will they vote with we to back the people get up every morning , go out to work , do the hard yard , make the hard choice and work hard to build our country ? well , there we have it — as ever , all politic and no economic . the Conservatives come to this House to talk not about the people of this country , but about themselves . in March , we find out the truth of the Tory record on child poverty , which be highly relevant to their motion today . from 2010 to 2024 , the number of poor child skyrocket by nearly 1 million . after 14 year in office , the Conservatives leave we with 4 . 5 million of our child grow up without the ability to make end meet . that be what Tory government do , just as they do from 1979 to 1997 , when child poverty more than double , leave 4 . 2 million child in relative poverty . the Conservatives can come to this House to defend the failure of the last government as many time as they like , as their motion do today . every single time , we will remind they of their record . will the Minister give way ? I will give way if the hon . gentleman apologise to the 4 . 5 million child in this country grow up in poverty . the Minister and Labour Members be in absolute denial about the state of the country . the Government come in with growth as their no . 1 mission , and what have they do ? they have bring growth to an absolute , shudder halt . they have do what every Labour Government do , which be to increase unemployment . who do that hurt the most ? it be the poor . from an age point of view , who do that hurt the most ? it be the young . an increase in youth unemployment of 45 % be a scar on this country that the last Labour Government leave . it be the Conservative Government that outgrow Germany , France , Japan and Italy over the 14 year we be in power . she should be ashamed of her record , even though it be only 12 month old . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that lengthy intervention . I deeply regret that he do not feel the need to look his own record in the face and , more than anything , that he have nothing to say to the 4 . 5 million child in this country without the mean to make end meet . emergency food parcel distribute by Trussell Trust food bank have increase by 164 % over the past 10 year , and 1 . 1 million child be live in household that have go to a food bank over the past 12 month . in this country we now have more food bank than police station . be the Conservatives proud of that record ? I hope not . nobody in this country should be beg — no child should face that indignity . the consequence be serious . over 80 % of parent say they struggle to get basic support , such as a GP appointment , or to see a health visitor . school be in an attendance crisis , with one in five kid now miss a day a fortnight or more , and it be bad for poor kid . that be the Conservatives ' record . these failure for our child will echo down the year and will turn up in our nation ' s life expectancy , the benefit bill they say they care about and , bad of all , in the sense of hopelessness that far too many people in this country now have . do the Conservative Opposition have a response on their record ? as we have hear , no , they do not . have they apologise to family in the UK ? as we have hear , no , they have not . have they reflect on their record ? as we have hear , no , they have not . they bring a motion to this House to do none of the above , but to agree with the Tory party policy from 10 year ago . they be the same conservative party that create the mess we be in now , and they have no regret . their motion talk of a benefit trap , and the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) just repeat that . they will be awfully cross when they find out who spend £ 3 billion on the universal credit system that they now say trap people in poverty . they promise that universal credit would get people into work ; instead , it push people into incapacity benefit . I gently say to the Minister that she and her back - Bench colleague do not have a monopoly on talk about poverty . if she really care about poverty , she would not have allow a policy to be bring before this House last week that , before it be change , would have put 150 , 000 extra child into poverty . if she genuinely believe in tackle poverty , why be she still stand at the Dispatch Box as a Minister , because she should have resign for put more child into poverty under her proposal ? I do not believe for a moment that it be just people in the Labour party who care about poverty in this country . former conservative Members of this House who be discharge from their duty by previous Prime Ministers , and many other member of different party over many year , have care about poverty . we should deal with fact in this place , and I be merely repeat , for the benefit of the House , the Conservative Government ' s record on poverty . I will cover the detail of the child poverty taskforce in my speech . if the hon . Gentleman wish at any point to make representation to the taskforce of Ministers deal with child poverty in this country , I will happily receive they . on the question of fact , will the Minister give way ? let I make a little progress , if I may . the official Opposition ' s motion speak of a " benefit culture " . I simply ask they this : who make that culture happen ? who be in charge for the past decade and a half ? either the last Tory Government be powerless to stop that culture be create , or they be responsible for it — which be it ? until they can see the consequence of their own time in office and accept the damage that they do , which they clearly can not , no one will hear a single word that they say . there be , however , people in this country who deserve a hearing : those who have experience childhood under the last Tory Government . as the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) mention , we hear last week from the Children ' s Commissioner — who , I point out , be appoint under the Conservatives — on her work capture the opinion of child who have grow up in poverty because of the policy espouse by Conservative Members . the Minister be make an important speech with which many Labour Members will agree . she will be aware that 59 % of family with more than two child and which be on universal credit be in work . that be far from the feckless parent caricature that we have hear from the Conservatives . more importantly , do she agree that the child should come first , so we should urgently scrap the two - child cap as quickly as possible ? as my hon . friend rightly point out , in the speech by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , we hear yet again from a Tory party that want only to ignore the fact in favour of divide people in this country , as it do for the many year it be in government . that be not what people want . People want this country to move forward together . rise — rise — I will mention a few contribution by the Children ' s Commissioner for England , and then I will give way far . we hear from the commissioner that child think that free breakfast club and school meal be important . that be why we have begin the roll - out of free breakfast club in all primary school and last month announce the expansion of free school meal to all on universal credit , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty by the end of this Parliament . young people tell the commissioner about how they absorb their parent ' money worry . one 16 - year - old girl say : " I worry about money quite a lot . I see myself as quite approachable to my mum so my mum will tell I absolutely everything . " child need to grow up without that stress , so we have introduce the fair repayment rate for universal credit household , so that a debt to the Government do not keep family poor , which will help 700 , 000 household with child . I be mindful of two of her predecessor in Birkenhead . the first be F . E . Smith , the great Tory , who talk about " all must have prize " . sometimes , in our modern Britain , it feel that all must have state support . the second be the late Frank Field , who be much regard and revere in this House for his honesty about welfare reform . the Minister be right that successive government have fail to grasp this nettle . the truth be that the relationship between the state and the individual have change over time . we need a welfare system that focus support on those in the great need . she surely believe that , and that require bold welfare reform . be she up for that or not ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and for remind I of two of my predecessor . I can not claim to have know the former , but I do know Frank Field very well . Frank and I talk many time , particularly with regard to Birkenhead , about his belief in the value of work . he want to see our shipyard thrive and young people in Birkenhead grow up with the pride of employment . I like to think that when the Prime Minister come to Cammell Laird shipyard recently to talk about the value of good work in Birkenhead , Frank would have feel very proud . will the Minister give way ? I will continue for just a moment . all the young people who speak to the commissioner could not have be clear about the challenge of learn in overcrowded bedroom . they be clear and direct about the shame of not always be able to keep clean because of a lack of hot water . I be deeply proud that we have commit funding for social housing to get child out of temporary accommodation , and expand the warm home discount for all those on universal credit who be eligible . to ensure that the next generation of family experience a friendly face and have a place to play , we have expand Best Start family hub to every local authority . as I say early , those be just some of the change be bring about thank to the child poverty taskforce chair by my right hon . friend the Secretaries of State for Work and Pensions and for Education . the family hub be a great thing . the Minister say that they have go to every local authority , but , if I have read the datum correctly , none have go to South Shropshire . will she look into that and see whether we can get they there ? I will ask the Minister with responsibility for family hub to write directly to the hon . Gentleman and work with he on that suggestion . from the word go on take office , the Prime Minister waste no time in set up the taskforce of Ministers to analyse the situation for our child in poverty . if I recall correctly , from the get - go , the Labour party suspend seven member of its parliamentary party for vote to scrap the two - child cap . the Minister ' s colleague , the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , ask she very clearly whether she believe that the two - child cap should be scrap , but she do not answer . perhaps now she will . do she believe that the cap should be scrap — yes or no ? I will come to the two - child limit in a moment , but let I correct the right hon . gentleman : the issue then be member vote to amend the King ' s Speech . from the word go on take office , the Prime Minister waste no time in set up the taskforce of Ministers to analyse the situation for our child in poverty and to identify the most cost - effective way of help they to experience well childhood . our child poverty strategy will be publish later this year , but , as I have say , we have already take step that we believe will help to mitigate the bad effect of 14 Tory year . just yesterday , the Chancellor announce the well future fund , the world ' s large social outcome fund , which will be back by £ 500 million of Government fund over 10 year to support vulnerable child , young people and their family . rise — I have give way a lot , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be worried that you will be quite cross with I if I keep give way , so I will make progress . rise — I do say that I would give way to the hon . Gentleman , so let I do so before I finish my speech . the Minister be extraordinarily gracious . she have rightly talk about universal credit , and what she say be very interesting indeed . I have constituent on legacy benefit who be — I think this be the right word — " migrate " to universal credit . the trouble be that they have to wait five week until they get their first cash . how will they make end meet ? what about the direct debit ? I worry about that . perhaps the wonderful group of Ministers consider these matter could look at that situation , because people be really catch in a trap . the hon . Gentleman be not the only person who worry about it , and I will receive his intervention as a submission to the child poverty taskforce . the child poverty taskforce be look at all the lever we can pull — across income , cost , debt and local support — to prevent poverty , include social security reform . our universal credit review be consider way that the system can improve in order to stabilise family finance and provide root into good work . on the two - child limit specifically , the consequence of the conservative choice make over the past decade and a half be clear for all to see . we have rightly say many time that we will not commit to any policy without know how we will pay for it . taxpayer in this country — who include many parent , grandparent and those who care deeply about the fortune of the next generation — have the right to know that they have a Government who will help grow our country and our economy . poverty create stony ground for that growth . it rob people of the dignity of be able to look after themselves and the choice about how to live their own life . it rob child of what should be a worry - free time and make they less able to take risk and try new thing as they grow up . this make bad beginning for a country that need its next generation to be innovator , to be inventor and to build our future . I say this as one of three in a family with hard - work parent where money be tight . we know every day in those year when I be grow up that the Tory Government at the helm do not give a stuff about people like we — we know that every single day . family in this country who be struggle should know that this Labour Government think about they every day . we have take action to improve life for our kid , and we will keep fight for that every single day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . child be 20 % of our population in the United Kingdom but 100 % of our future , and it be shocking that almost a third of those child be grow up in poverty . that be why the Liberal Democrats believe the two - child limit should be lift , as well as the benefit cap . there be 4 . 5 million child live in poverty in the United Kingdom . that be almost a million and a half more than the population of Wales , which be shocking in the 21st century . some 44 % of child live in a family where someone have a disability , which relate back to the conversation we have have about universal credit and PIP in recent week . the figure I have be slightly different from that of the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) : 72 % of child live in poverty live in a family where an individual be in work — people be in work , and yet their child be in poverty . I reflect on a visit I make to a primary school in Paignton in the winter , where the headteacher say , " we have child who be come into school cold , hungry and tired . " the impact of this on child be shocking . I represent the most deprived constituency that have a Liberal Democrat MP . the fact of the matter be that child do not choose to be bear into large family , so have a benefit system that punish those child be perverse in the extreme . this have be exacerbate by the cost of living crisis . whether it be skyrocket rent or utility bill , those be all significant challenge that have an impact on these youngster . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , say that people have choice . what about a couple who choose to have three or four child , and everything be go well , but suddenly one of they be in an accident or contract a significant disease that debilitate they , and their partner have to give up work to look after they and the rest of the family ? that be not a choice ; it be a sad circumstance for that family . we as a society need to make sure that the safety net be there to support they . the Liberal Democrats have make a manifesto commitment to lift the two - child limit and the benefit cap , and it be not just we who believe this be the right way forward . the big four child ' s charity believe this be the good , most cost - effective way to tackle child poverty . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation — a much love organisation of mine — also believe this be the good way to tackle child poverty . childhood be a very short period of our life . it be sad that the child poverty strategy have be delay , but I hope it will emerge in the autumn . when I be the leader of Torbay council , we turn round child ' s service from fail to good within two year . part of that be ensure that we use the whole of our orchestra of Torbay to support child : the Government ' s big instrument be lift the two - child limit and the benefit cap , because we desperately need to lift these child out of poverty . tackle the cause of child poverty be the reason I come into this place . as a teacher and then cabinet member for education , I know only too well about the child poverty that have grow for over a decade — I could see it happen before my eye . in Wales , much have already be put in place to mitigate the impact , include in my own work : long - establish free breakfast club , work to lower the cost of the school day and universal free school meal in every primary school . there be also the incredible work that my local school do , with family support space , bank of winter coat and food bank — yes , food bank — in school , to make sure that child go home to a proper meal . the necessity of these in 21st - century Britain be a stain on our country , so when I hear Conservative member talk about benefit culture , blame people for their financial struggle and tell they to live within their mean , I be frankly stagger , because it be their inaction and shoulder - shrugging that have lead we to where we be today . do the hon . Lady recognise that there be 800 , 000 few people — include 300 , 000 child — in absolute poverty and 4 million more people in work in the UK when the Conservatives leave power in 2024 than there be in 2010 ? labour government take we in the opposite direction : they put people in the dole queue and make the whole country poorer . that be why the conservative party can be proud of its role in poverty reduction , include for child . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention , but to be frank , I do not recognise any of it . the Tories sit on their hand and allow low - pay work to grow , access to work to dwindle , welfare dependency to deepen and daily living cost to soar . will the hon . Lady give way ? I have just give way , so I will make some progress . I come to this place because I do not want to mitigate the impact of child poverty any more — I want to do something about it . that be exactly what this Labour Government be do , by boost the minimum wage , take other on the pay scale up with it ; by invest in get people trap outside the labour market into work — the sure route out of poverty in the long term for they and the generation that follow ; by negotiate trade deal to bring food cost down ; by expand the warm home discount , so that almost 1 million more family can afford to pay their bill , and invest in our own clean energy to bring those bill down for good ; by increase the standard rate of universal credit above inflation for the first time ever ; and by establish a fair payment rate for those who find themselves immediately in arrear with universal credit , which be a recognise driver for food bank use — an early action towards our manifesto promise to end mass food bank dependence for good . that be what action look like — not indifference , not inertia , and not blame those who be in need of support . I know only too well that the driver of child poverty be complex and multifaceted , but we must not shy away from that complexity . that be why I be proud that one of this Government ' s first action be to begin work on a child poverty strategy where , importantly , everything be on the table to drive down poverty and drive up opportunity . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? I be just about to finish , if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I . I look forward to the finding of the child poverty taskforce in the autumn . More than that , I look forward to get to work to make child poverty a thing of the past , so that we can continue to act , rather than to blame as the motion do today . we must put child poverty into the dustbin of history , where it belong . rise — order . we have two Opposition day debate that be both heavily subscribe , so we will start with a speak limit of four minute . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in this debate , which at its heart be about fairness and what work , rather than what sound good . I believe that support family and help parent require a balanced system that provide support for those who need it , but that also ensure a sense of fairness to the taxpayer and the many work family who do not see their income rise automatically when they have more child . the previous benefit structure , which adjust automatically for family size , be unfair on taxpayer , who pay for the extra benefit be receive . indeed , under the previous Labour Government , 1 . 4 million people spend year trap in out - of - work benefit , with 50 , 000 household allow to claim benefit worth over £ 500 a week , or over £ 26 , 000 a year , which be high than the average wage at that time . taxpaye family who be not in receipt of benefit often have to make tough decision when choose how many child to have , and many will have make the decision not to have more simply because they could not afford it . as other have point out , for demographic reason we may wish that that be not the case , but it be , and it simply be not fair to ask family who be make those difficult decision to pay for the benefit of other who be not make those choice . my hon . friend make an excellent point . this be about fairness ; it be about hard - work family who be try to take care of their two child , while watch someone who be on benefit have multiple child . it be about fairness , equity and welfare state dependency . I agree . I find it hard to believe that Labour Members would allow and support a system where someone could have five , six , seven , eight , or nine child — all be pay for by somebody else — and think that that be fair . I speak early about F . E . Smith , who speak about all have prize who have " stout heart and sharp sword " . the stout heart drive we to do the good for those in the great need , but our sharp sword should make we brave enough to recognise that there be those who be absorb welfare expenditure that should be spend on those needy people . that be what the Government ought to do , but I hear none of that from the Minister . it be the inability to have difficult conversation and make difficult point that put Labour member on the wrong side of these issue and on the wrong side of british taxpayer , who understand the complexity of these thing . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? not right now . I recognise , of course , that some people be not able to make the same choice about the number of child in their family — include , for example , child who be care for under kinship arrangement , or adopt ; there be many exception to the policy to make it fair . the welfare system be already grow unsustainably , with spending on health and disability benefit alone set to hit £ 100 billion by the end of the decade , yet Labour , Reform and the liberal Democrats all back high welfare spending , include scrap the two - child limit , which will keep taxis high . the Resolution Foundation estimate that scrap the two - child benefit limit will cost £ 3 . 5 billion a year by 2029 - 30 . be this really an appropriate time to put more pressure on the public finance ? the focus of the motion today be the two - child benefit limit , yet we hear not a single word from the Minister about it . that show just how listless and drift the Government be , when those on the Front Bench can not tell the truth to this House or to those on the Back Benches . the truth be that the Labour party be rive in two , and those on the Front Bench no long have any power of propulsion . as other have point out , the Government put forward welfare reform that be suppose to save money but end up cost money , and this be yet another attempt to placate their Back Benchers in a way that we can not afford . we must be clear about our record : we bring down absolute child poverty when we be in government . Labour member be happy to quote figure on relative poverty and take they at face value , but when we quote figure on absolute poverty from the same dataset , they do not want to hear it . I be clear that I care more about absolute poverty , and how much someone actually have to spend on thing that they need , than I do about relative poverty . do the hon . Gentleman also care about deep poverty ? that increase to a point where four in 10 child who be in poverty under the Conservatives be in deep poverty . will he apologise for that ? I think we need to look at the absolute poverty figure and at what difference we can make to they — and what make a long - term difference to the number of people in poverty of any kind be employment . we reverse the decline in employment , but we be now see it get high every day under this Government ' s policy . that be what be bring even more people into poverty — their record on the economy and on employment . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I want to finish my speech . poverty be , of course , a matter for Government . it be about policy and about income , but there be another important side to child poverty in this country that people be too uncomfortable to talk about : child maintenance and the absence of payment make in single - parent family . research by the single - parent advocacy organisation Gingerbread find that 43 % of child in single - parent family in the UK be live in poverty , compare with 26 % in couple family . we know that poverty have many cause and there be no single solution , but there be clear evidence that when child maintenance be pay in full , it have a significant impact in lift child out of poverty . research show that where it be receive , child maintenance cut the child poverty rate by 25 % . Gingerbread ' s " fix the CMS " report find that 57 % of parent who care for a child and have a child maintenance arrangement in place report that they do not receive the full amount . the amount involve be significant . at the end of September 2024 , total cumulative arrear of payment that be formally expect stand at £ 682 . 1 million , and that figure be due to reach £ 1 billion by the end of the decade . that be just a fraction of the story , because those figure be base only on the sometimes quite pitiful amount that non - custodial parent have to pay , either because they earn little or because they hide what they earn . those figure also do not include parent who be not pursue for money by the custodial parent . absent parent be deny child much high amount of money than the official figure suggest , and there be a deep unfairness to that . if a custodial parent simply choose not to provide any more resource to the child they care for , they would face criminal sanction for neglect . a non - custodial parent who do not give money for the upkeep of their child face no similar ramification . I have no idea why we do not place an expectation on a non - custodial parent to make the same effort to find work and earn money as we do with out - of - work people on benefit , as they be also create a burden on the taxpayer . as the Minister may know , there be legislation that allow step to be take to place non - pay parent in home detention . I urge she and the Government to look closely at that . if people can not be bother to go out , work and pay for their child when they do not live with they , they should not be allow out on a Saturday night to drink beer with their mate . that would help to drive down the huge amount of money that be owe to child by parent who be simply not pay for they — order . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the policy outline by the Minister . I wish to discuss the crisis in the system , the situation in my constituency , and some of the important initiative under way to get people back into work . it be worth review the scale of the crisis that the current Government inherit just a year ago . after 14 year of the previous Government , 4 . 5 million child be live in poverty , 2 . 8 million people be on long - term sickness and disability benefit , and the cost of those benefit be up by £ 20 billion since the pandemic . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , I be afraid . I need to make some progress . in addition , one in eight young people be out of work due to long - term sickness and be on sickness and disability benefit . in short , the system that the Government inherit this time last year be in crisis and , moreover , trap people in poverty . we be lucky to have a grow local economy in my constituency . we have a town that attract many new business , and we grow our own business . however , that wealth be not spread evenly . despite the impressive array of new building in the town centre , there be a stark contrast between the wealth in those business and some of the wonderful science park on the edge of the town , and the poverty in which some of our resident live . I want to see that issue address . the Government be take important step forward in tackle that issue . I certainly see the problem when I be a councillor in Reading . they can include family struggle to get by in an area where the cost of living be particularly high and the cost of housing be high ; that be a crucial part of the issue . create more good job be very important , and that be not just my opinion . those job need to be spread across the country , and I believe the Government be make real progress on that , and on grow the economy . indeed , I will correct a point that be make early : the UK economy have grow more in the first quarter of this year than any other comparable G7 economy , and that be in a difficult economic context around the world . as well as a need for economic growth , there be a need to improve access to good job . that be one of the point I want to cover . do my hon . friend agree that disabled people have be write off by the Conservatives for too long ? they have not be give opportunity to access work and good job , and they have be blame by the Conservatives , for the sake of cheap headline . do he also agree that the Labour Government ' s propose transformation of jobcentre , which be already under way and will involve retrain dedicated work coach , will help people to access the good job that he talk about ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and make an excellent point . will the hon . Gentleman take an intervention from a Member on the Opposition Benches ? I will make a little more progress . I have discuss some of the challenge in my constituency , which be very pertinent to the wide debate . even in area of the UK where economic growth be at quite a reasonable level , we face real challenge access some of that wealth . the Minister outline the 17 initiative aim at encourage people to return to work , build their confidence and grow their ability to access work . that be so important . I would like to see more of that , and I hope that the Minister will say more about that later . many of my constituent who be not able to benefit from the great opportunity in our town be struggle with a series of challenge in their life . that be not through their own lack of initiative , but often because of pressure on childcare and many other issue . I agree with the point that the hon . Gentleman make about child poverty . in Northern Ireland , child poverty have grow by between 35 % and 40 % in total , so many people in Northern Ireland have experience child poverty in the last five year who would not have experience it for a long time before that . the Government have indicate that have a strategy may work . do he feel , as I do , that we need a strategy not just for Westminster , but for the whole United Kingdom , so that we can collectively address this issue ? the hon . Gentleman make a very important point . this must be a strategy for the whole United Kingdom . I be obviously reflect on the issue in my community , where we be lucky to have relatively high economic growth , but that growth be not spread or share evenly . I want more detail from the Minister about the 17 very exciting pilot , which have focus on offer help and support . I appreciate that time be press , but let I briefly focus on some of the very important first step that the Government have take in this area . some of these policy be not solely within the remit of the Department for Work and Pensions , but be cross - government . it be important to see the context . we have have the big investment in employment support for many year , with £ 3 . 5 billion be invest in that important field . there have also be an increase in the minimum wage to £ 12 . 21 per hour , and the initiative to build more home during this Parliament . that be vital . as I say , one of the big challenge for family in my area be the very high cost of housing , so it be very important that we build home to buy and to rent across the country , and that family can access those . great supply will obviously drive down the cost . it be also important that family be support with childcare . that be a very important aspect of help parent return to work , particularly when they have young child . I be delighted to hear the best start announcement , and there will be a best Start project in Reading . other initiative have provide similar support ; the free breakfast club , for example , be also very important . I want a quick roll - out of those programme . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid that I really be press for time . we need to see the wide context of the very difficult inheritance the Government have . hard work be under way , but it will obviously take time to shift some of these very persistent problem . the focus on help people to return to work be so important , and I hope that the Minister will say more about these important trailblazer ; they seem extremely well - design . thank you for my time today , Madam Deputy Speaker . the UK ' s benefit system be design to act as a financial safety net . it exist so that people in hardship through no fault of their own can be support . support family and help parent into work require a balanced and fair system . it must provide meaningful support for those who need it most , while maintain a sense of fairness for taxpayer . that be why the Conservatives introduce the two - child limit and believe it should be retain — so that people on benefit face the same choice as those in work . the welfare system be grow unsustainably , with spending on health and disability benefit alone set to hit £ 100 billion by the end of the decade . do my hon . friend acknowledge the word of Richard Hughes of the OBR , who say in a report last week : " the UK can not afford the array of promise that it have make to the public " ? he also say that debt be on a trajectory that the UK " can ' t sustain " . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for make that point . it be essential that we put Britain ' s finance on a sustainable path . all benefit be fund by taxpayer or borrowing , so every time the cost of benefit rise , so do the burden on taxpayer , or the debt we place on future generation . my hon . friend be right about the cost of benefit , but he be also right to suggest that they need to be direct to those in the great need — the most deserving . that be what we all want across this House . sadly , because of family breakdown and the fragmentation of community , the state have step in to do what be once do , in my early life , by family , individual and community . it be really important that this welfare reform be see in that broad context , and that we direct the money to those with the great need . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for make that point . I know that he , like all conservative , believe in personal responsibility , live within our mean and fairness to the taxpayer . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not take any more intervention . many thousand of couple think every year about whether to have child . they make that choice base on several factor , but one of the most important be whether they can afford to bring up that child as they would like to . under the previous system , pre - 2017 , there be a fundamental element of unfairness in the system . a family in receipt of benefit see those increase automatically every time they have another child . that be not true for a family not in receipt of benefit . why be it that someone on benefit should not have to make the same choice and sacrifice as someone in work ? why should a taxpayer who be unable to afford to have more child subsidise the third , fourth or fifth child of someone not in work ? the welfare bill in this country be increase at an unsustainable rate . unemployment be rise , thank to the action of the Government , and more people than ever be receive disability benefit , but this Government seem completely powerless to do anything to reverse that trend . the Prime Minister say that his welfare reform strike the " right balance " , but the truth be that he be force into a humiliating u - turn by his own Back Benchers and have have to totally gut his plan . scrap the Government ' s PIP reform mean that the welfare Bill will make no saving at all — indeed , the total package will end up cost the taxpayer about an extra £ 100 million a year . what a fiasco ! the Government set out to save £ 4 . 5 billion , and have end up spend more taxpayer ' money to buy off Labour rebel . no thought be give to the burden on the taxpayer , or to the extra debt that the Government would incur and the interest that will have to be pay on it by our child . the fact that so many Labour member want to remove the two - child benefit cap be testament to the irresponsibility with which they treat the public finance . their solution be always to spend more money — preferably belong to someone else . now , we have the spectacle of the leader of Reform UK , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , say that he also support scrap the two - child cap , despite have be an outspoken supporter of it when it be introduce . reform supporter in my constituency be rather puzzle by his decision . it suggest that the hon . member be not guide by any political principle , but be chase vote in the red wall , where he hope to win seat from the Labour party . in my view , that confirm that he be wholly unserious about govern this country . there be only one party in this House that be serious about sound money , and that be the conservative party . we be the only party that be serious about stop the creep reliance on welfare , and that care about taxpayer keep more of the money they earn . today , we have see lot of colleague take intervention from each other . when I stand up to speak , particularly about poverty , I take intervention from another source — my mum . she will be sit at home , watch the tv , and she will text I , because she know that I be go to talk about my upbringing — about grow up in poverty , care for she and my father , who be disabled and be force out of work because the NHS and the social security system be nowhere to be see when my mum and dad need they . she be go to text I , as she always do , to say , " I ' m sorry . I do my good . " she do not always realise that poverty be systemic — that it be about society and the structure we build . she internalise the shame and the guilt , and feel like she do not do enough . give what have be say today , I also fear that my mum will ask I a further question : " why be some of those mps suggest , or say , that I be a scrounger , as a person dependent on the welfare system ? " I do not think that Members of Parliament intend to create that impression , but they should know that what they say perpetuate the shame and stigma of poverty , which be impossible to eradicate in one lifetime , and be pass on from one generation to the next . that be why I stand for Parliament . I be in this place to try to tackle child poverty , so that the people of Bournemouth East — the constituency I represent — do not have the same kind of childhood I have , live without very much , and rely on the love of a mum and dad who will sacrifice everything to get you to where they think you need to be , when they should be able to depend on a wide social security system . I ask member speak in today ' s debate to reflect on the language they use , because the outside world be watch . do my hon . friend agree that his mum and dad do a brilliant job bring he up ; that mum and dad in all sort of circumstance do their level well , bring up their kid ; that they be proud — as my hon . friend ' s parent no doubt be of he — of the job they have do , and the contribution that their child make ; and that a person ' s circumstance of birth do not define who they be go to become ? I always agree with my hon . friend , especially when she say that I should agree with my mum . I thank she for her intervention , and I agree that nobody ' s background should shape their future . we be in this place to create a well social security system , a well nhs and well public service , so that child today in all our constituency can access the support that they need , in the form that they need , enable they to truly thrive . it deeply sadden I that in my constituency of Bournemouth East , child be grow up in poverty . some 27 % of child in my constituency be grow up in relative poverty ; in the ward of Boscombe West , that figure be 43 % , and in the ward of Springbourne , it be 36 % . that be unacceptable in 2025 in modern Britain , and we should not put up with it . look beyond my constituency , a near - record 2 . 8 million people be out of work due to long - term sickness — throw on the scrapheap . some 300 , 000 people fall out of work every year because of their health , and part of the reason for that be the underfunding of our public service ; that leave people on waiting list , and waiting list kill . we know that 4 . 5 million child be in relative poverty after housing cost , a figure that have rise by 900 , 000 since 2010 . we also know that the Tories preside over the bad Parliament ever record for economic inactivity ; it rise by over 800 , 000 to 9 . 4 million people . we hear from Opposition Members about the connection between work and welfare , but when they preside over such economic inactivity , such poor productivity and such sluggish growth , be it any wonder — will the hon . member give way ? I will not be take an intervention . be it any wonder that , as a consequence , we have people who be in significant difficulty , particularly when the social security and public service that they rely on have be chop back ? as such , I welcome the launch of the child poverty taskforce as an early priority of this Government . I be pleased to meet the Minister just last week to talk about my priority , which include try to make sure that play be not squeeze out of childhood and that we have a social security system to meet the need of child , particularly in the disadvantaged area of my constituency . I thank my hon . friend and colleague from Dorset for give way . he have talk about the issue outside his constituency of Bournemouth East , and he do not have to look far to see some of the inequality that be in play — only to West Dorset . he will know from our beautiful part of the countryside that deliver service , include access to affordable healthcare , be even more difficult in rural Britain due to the sparsity of the population . that make it even more important to support those most vulnerable member of our community . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . he invite I to champion his work . I do not think I will do that , but I will acknowledge his hard work and commitment , and I be pleased that he be a colleague . the child poverty taskforce be go to be critical . the report that it will release , base on feedback from all member of this House and all our civil society organisation , will be so important , so I be glad that we be take the time to get this right . it will be a once - in - a - generation opportunity truly to tackle the root cause of child poverty . I be also pleased that , although we have launch that taskforce , this Government be crack on with the hard work . just this week , we have see the announcement of the well future fund — £ 500 million from this Government , to be match by £ 500 million from local government and the private sector . in total , that be a £ 1 billion fund that will make a huge difference . similarly , I be pleased that we be provide free school meal for all child in family that be on universal credit — that will have a significant impact for my constituent . I be also pleased about the revamp Sure Start , which I think we should talk about more . a revamp sure Start in all of our local authority area , with the money that be be give to it , will be able to spot some of the hardship — the physical and mental health issue — that arise from poverty , and to tackle its root cause as well as its symptom . it will give child a chance to grow , play , learn from each other and develop with peer support , and it will enable their parent , who have be starve of parent support under the Conservatives , to learn from each other and get what they need . we have a long way to go in order to reverse the decline cause by the Conservatives and lift as many kid as possible out of poverty , but together across this House , I believe that we all have the solution . I hope we can take this debate forward in the right way and lift those kid out of poverty . we must have a fair welfare system — one that provide vital support to those who need it but do not create a barrier to find work . we need a financially sustainable system that deliver fairness for the taxpayer and do not entrench dependency . the Government ' s Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill — which I think have now be shorten to the Universal Credit Bill — barely save any money . in fact , I think we hear from the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , that it will cost more money , and it will make no impact on help people back to work . that highlight the Government ' s complete failure to reform our welfare system . the welfare bill continue to rise , and economic growth be be strangle as a result . with thousand sign on to incapacity benefit every day , it be clear that we must get serious and take control of welfare spending . we can not become a welfare state with an economy attach . I will always stand up for those in Mid Bedfordshire who need vital support . the two - child limit be an important safeguard in our welfare system , strike a balance between support family and help parent into work , and ensure fairness for work family who do not see their income grow as their family grow . work family across the country be have to make difficult decision about the size of their family . will the hon . member give way ? I will happily give way — the hon . Lady have be try for some time . do the hon . member accept that even with his emphasis on parental financial responsibility , the two - child benefit cap punish the entirely innocent party — the child , who have no choice in their existence ? be that not deeply unjust ? I be sympathetic to the point , but I will get on to how unjust and unfair it be to expect other family to pay for those situation , and the fiscal stability and security we need as a country . do my hon . friend agree that this be actually about growth in the economy , low tax , the welfare state be there as a safety net — not as a path to dependency , in which our economy be stifle and lack any growth — and child whose parent work hard be give the same privilege and fairness as anyone on welfare benefit ? I absolutely agree . it be important that we get people into work so that they can look after their family and make the right decision for they . shift the financial responsibility of child on to the state risk not only entrench inequality , but open the floodgate to unsustainable dependency , encourage parent to have child beyond their mean under the assumption that the state will bear the cost . it be neither equitable nor responsible for the state to incentivise large family through an open - end benefit system . that be especially true as the cost of our welfare bill and its burden on the taxpayer continue to rise . the fiscal reality must not be ignore . projection from the Child Poverty Action Group and the Institute for Fiscal Studies estimate that remove the cap would create an additional £ 1 billion annual cost to the public finance . as we grapple with considerable economic pressure , such a policy shift be simply not affordable . remove the cap would force the Government to raise taxis far , borrow even more money — when borrowing be already out of control — or divert public funding away from other stretch public service . the Government have lose control of the public finance , and work family can not afford to take another hit . the hon . Gentleman mention raise taxis , but do he accept that there be many way to do that ? one way be to look at large corporation and people who have far more money than they will ever use . I certainly accept that there be many way to raise taxis , but my constituent and business in my constituency be pay far too much tax as it be . we can not continue to squeeze corporation , business and hard - work people far to achieve the hon . Gentleman ' s aim . the Government have lose control of public finance . work family can not afford to take another hit . I recognise the sensitivity of the debate . it be crucial that we support those in genuine need , and we must work towards end child poverty . the state , however , simply can not afford to subsidise unlimited family expansion on the back of work people . rise — order . the speak limit have now be reduce to three minute . I have visit St Anselm ' s food bank in Southall on many occasion and speak to its brilliant volunteer , but the people who find it hard to speak to I be those collect the food . be poor and unable to feed their family be not something they want to shout about . I can see the distress write on their face . those mum and dad have not decide to live in poverty . many of they have job , but they just can not make end meet . they be the casualty of 14 year of Conservative Government — of public service that be cut to the bone , leave people without a vital safety net when thing go wrong ; of a job market that leave worker on bargain - basement term and condition and low - wage job with no protection ; and , of a welfare system with a basic rate that just be not enough to live on , instead push people into rely on sickness benefit . do my hon . friend agree that , exactly because of those problem , we should all welcome the uplift to the basic rate of UC , which will lift the income of 6 . 5 million family ? I absolutely welcome that point . the Conservatives put 1 million more child into poverty , with 800 , 000 child now rely on food bank such as St Anselm ' s to eat . in the motion today , the Conservatives have the bare - faced cheek to blame those family , as if parent choose to let their kid go hungry . the only people to blame for this be Liz Truss ' s Conservative party , who gamble with the country ' s finance , bet it all on pie - in - the - sky promise they know they could not pay for , bring the economy crash down overnight . family in Ealing and Southall be still suffer the consequence ; 40 , 000 of they be have to go to the food bank this year . under this Labour Government , we want to make food bank the exception and not the norm . that be why Labour have open new breakfast club , such as the one in Wolf Fields in Southall ; expand nursery , such as in Allenby primary ; extend free school meal for all those on universal credit ; and reduce energy bill by £ 150 for more than half a million londoner . we know , however , that we need to change the whole bust system that put people into poverty in the first place . that be why Labour be end the low - pay , bargain - basement job of the Tory era . our Employment Rights Bill will end zero - hour contract , with family no long wonder from week to week if they can get enough hour to afford food . we be stop fire and rehire , extend sick pay to low - income worker , and we have raise the minimum wage for 3 million work family . our next step be to address the injustice face by those work in the gig economy . my hon . friend be talk about other area of public policy that affect welfare . be not the other side of the coin the 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness and the state of our NHS ? the fact that waiting list be come down month after month under this Labour Government will help people who be currently on benefit to get back into work . I agree with my hon . friend , and we be make huge progress on reduce those waiting list . we be also fix the broken welfare system that the Conservatives leave behind . we be increase the basic rate of universal credit to help those family who rely on it , so that it start to become enough to live on , and they do not have to use food bank . we have change the rule , so that people be no long well off on sickness benefit . that be how the Conservatives leave the welfare system , but we be the Labour party , and we believe in good job as the good route out of poverty . we have put more than £ 1 billion into help people find those good job . what do the Conservatives have to say for themselves ? there be no apology to the almost 1 million child that they put into poverty and leave reliant on food bank . there be no apology to the almost 3 million people on long - term sick leave live on benefit when many of they want to work . there be no apology to the ten of thousand of family struggle to get by on bargain - basement job . they create the problem , and as their motion show today , they have absolutely no plan to fix it . all they can do be blame the very family their policy have force into poverty . it be clear that only this Labour Government be serious about get Britain work , ensure that those who can not work have a decent living income , finally end reliance on food bank , such as St Anselm ' s in Southall , for good . two week ago , the House come together to watch the Labour party tear itself apart over to what extent it would remove welfare support from some of the most vulnerable in society , include , but not limit to , those with Parkinson ' s and dementia . it be not all bad news , though . Jeff get marry in the same week , so congratulation to Jeff . he get marry in Venice . by most account , it be a lovely and private affair . although it cost he approximately $ 50 million , he probably would not have notice , because he be worth $ 328 billion . like most very wealthy people , his wealth have almost double in the past two year . for context , it would take an MP earn only their salary , which be almost three time the average UK salary , 2 . 5 million year to accrue that kind of wealth . clearly the Government will not be tax Jeff , whose wealth lie offshore , although he do own a modest UK - base delivery business with an annual turnover of £ 30 billion . it pay less than 3 % in cumulative tax on that figure last year . labour do promise that those with the broad shoulder should carry the heavy burden . I be sure that enough wealth exist within our own border to keep our most vulnerable citizen support . will the Government therefore commit themselves to both keep and increase digital service tax , so that big tech pay its fair share ? I be grateful to the Opposition for initiate a debate that enable we to discuss one of the most critical issue face our nation : child poverty . every child grow up in poverty represent a future diminish , opportunity deny and potential unfulfilled . every child deserve the good start in life , so that they can learn , achieve and go on to live the good life that they deserve . that be why tackle child poverty be now firmly back at the top of the Government ' s agenda . for 14 year , the previous Government preside over a shameful legacy that lead directly to this crisis . as other have say , they leave we with 4 . 5 million child in relative poverty , include 3 , 000 in my constituency . since 2010 , child poverty increase by a staggering 900 , 000 child , but instead of try to tackle the problem , the Conservatives decide in 2015 to abolish the target of eradicate child poverty . their motion and , indeed , their rhetoric allude to the idea that government should " make work pay , " but when they be in government they oversee the first Parliament on record with living standard low at its end than at its start . some within the conservative rank have today show a shocking disregard for this issue . they have talk of personal responsibility , but their version of personal responsibility appear to be lecture other on it rather than take any themselves . if they be take personal responsibility on child poverty , they would come to the House and explain why it rise by 90 , 000 child . be it a matter of policy design , be it a matter of policy failure , or be it , indeed , the fault of the child themselves ? do my hon . friend agree that people in disadvantaged and poor area typically live in overcrowded , poor - quality rent accommodation , and that this Labour Government ' s effort to improve the quality of rent accommodation should be commend as a way of tackle child poverty ? absolutely . as one who have fight outside the House for significant investment in affordable housing , particularly social housing , I greatly welcome the Government ' s massive investment in the affordable housing programme . it fall to this Government to fix the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . we be commit to drive down poverty and drive up opportunity in every part of our country , deliver the change that the country so desperately need . we have already make a considerable downpayment on the comprehensive strategy on child poverty that be due later this year , provide free school meal for all child in household receive universal credit , for which so many of my Labour colleague campaign for many month and year ; deliver free breakfast club in school ; reform universal credit deduction with a new fair repayment rate , which the Minister mention early and which put hundred of pound back into the pocket of 700 , 000 of the poor family ; and increase the standard allowance of universal credit . look ahead , our plan to get Britain work involve the big investment in employment support in a generation , include an additional £ 1 billion a year by the end of the Parliament for work , health and skill support through a " pathway to work " offer . the hon . Gentleman have rightly highlight the terrible record of the previous Government and the number of child who go into poverty during that period , which include an extra 250 , 000 who go into poverty as a result of the introduction of the two - child benefit cap . he have list some action that this Government be plan to take . will he add to that list his support for scrap the cap , and will he join figure in his own party , such as Lord Kinnock and Mark Drakeford , in support the introduction of a wealth tax for the super - rich , so that we can fund the tackling of inequality and support the most vulnerable ? I will not get ahead of our Chancellor when it come to the announcement about taxation that will be make later in the year , but I be confident that those on the Front Bench know that they have our full support in deliver the final recommendation of the child poverty taskforce , also later in the year . this government will never allow young people to be write off , as the Tories do for year . as I say at the beginning of my speech , I be pleased that the Conservatives initiate the debate , which have give we all a chance to discuss child poverty and their record on welfare , both of which be shocking . I lament the fact that they have fail to recognise the scale of their failure today , but I be pleased that this Government be get on with the job of return people to work , ensure that social security be there for those who need it , and tackle the moral stain on our country that be child poverty . I find it deeply shameful that we must see our constituent suffer under the cruelty of the two - child benefit cap . it be a policy that punish child for the circumstance of their birth , and it have no place in a civilised society . outside the wall of the Treasury building , in Birmingham Perry Barr I receive testimony from the family who must live with the reality of the two - child benefit cap , and 53 % of child in my constituency live in poverty , which be more than 3 , 000 impact by this cap . these be not just statistic ; they be life . in Birmingham Perry Barr , I constantly receive heartbreaking testimony from family live with the consequence of this callous measure . let I tell the House what that mean in real life . it mean a mother skip meal so that her child can eat . it mean child share a bed in a cold , damp flat because the heating bill must come second to food . it mean school uniform be buy two size too big because they need to last for year . at a time when food price be soar , with energy bill spiral out of control , rent be unaffordable and council tax rise , this Government have actively choose to make life hard for struggle family . no child ' s future , no child ' s health and no child ' s dignity should depend on how many sibling they have , yet under this Labour Administration that be exactly the situation we have create . this be not just an economic failure ; it be a moral one . work family — and more than 50 % be work while rely on some benefit — and those do everything ask of they be be abandon in their hour of need , and it be happen under Labour ' s watch . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have state outright that scrap the cap would bring nearly half a million child out of poverty . end this policy would not just relieve family , but ease the pressure on food bank , school and charity — the organisation that have be force to pick up the slack where the Government have abdicate responsibility . despite all this evidence and all the human suffering , this Labour Government refuse to act . time and again , they have show where their priority lie : protect billionaire and large corporation from pay their fair share , while child go to bed cold and hungry . the Government say that they be commit to solve the issue , but they continue to fail the british public at every turn . at current projection , they be on track to be the only Labour Administration in live memory to oversee an increase in child poverty rate . it would be a shameful legacy to leave behind and the deep betrayal of our future generation , so I urge the Government and Ministers to change their stance , stand on the side of british family and end the two - child limit . we face a child poverty emergency , and it be up to we to respond with the urgency it demand . in the Black Country we work hard , we be proud and we do not lack for personal responsibility , but force big than any individual — deindustrialisation and the cruel 14 year of austerity — mean that good folk earn less , be sicker , and have few chance and few choice than people elsewhere . as I stand here every day in this place , the kid live behind the door that I knock on during the general election and every week since live in my heart , because one in two of they — one in two — in my end grow up in poverty . that mean every second family , every second door , every second kid , and in the 12th most deprived borough in the country , that be our share of the 4 . 5 million kid grow up in poverty in this national emergency . I want to thank the church , mosque , gurdwara and community organisation in my end that be serve dignity , love and solidarity alongside food parcel , warm clothe and hot food . but I will also say this : when the state walk away from we , take money from our council , close our Sure Starts , cut the social security that we have pay for , and watch as good job in heavy industry flee and nothing replace they , we pick ourselves up , we help one another and we somehow keep the wolf from the door . community self - defence be now exhausted , but I say to those child that at long last the cavalry be come . in this rich country , no one will go without the basic , and every child will matter again . just look at the start we have make — end no - fault eviction , build council home and ban zero - hour contract . this autumn , people will see the scale of our ambition in the child poverty strategy . the down payment we have already make include free school meal for every family on universal credit , and free breakfast club , include at St John Bosco primary school in West Bromwich in my constituency . there will be family hub in every single town , and we be fix local government finance so that it once again take account of deprivation and of place such as mine . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful speech about the resilience of her community and the action that this Labour Government be take . her constituent , like mine , be be lecture on personal responsibility . do she share my astonishment that , despite the opportunity to take some responsibility themselves for a mini - Budget that crash our economy , and for 3 million people out of work and a welfare system out of control , we be hear no apology or personal responsibility from the conservative party ? my hon . friend will be unsurprise to hear that I be await that apology , both for that and for the 900 , 000 more child in poverty under the previous Government . as I be say , that be a down payment on the child poverty strategy to come . I know that I do not need to urge ambition on my hon . friend on the Front Bench . they carry in their heart every day the child who do not eat last night . they know that whether you have dinner this evening should not depend on how many sibling you have . there be no need to listen to those on the Opposition Benches , who push up child poverty by 900 , 000 . come and walk around Friar Park or Princes end , meet those kid and tell they why someone ' s choice , far away here in London , mean they have no tea tonight . it be time they apologise to the child of this country . and there be no point listen to the absent bandwagon johnny of Reform . if they care about people on low wage , they would not have vote against increase statutory sick pay , ban zero - hour contract or increase the national minimum wage . as always , it be Labour that stand for working - class family . poverty rob child of their future : it limit their life chance ; impact their long - term health ; and reduce their ability to participate in the bit of childhood that widen their experience , build resilience and teach new skill . we may live in a beautiful part of the world , but the child in South Devon who go to school hungry , who live in overcrowded and unsuitable accommodation , and whose parent be work two or three low - pay job just to make end meet — they be the child whose life have already be limit by the situation they be grow up in . Emma Hopkins , from the Mother ' s Manifesto group in Totnes , tell I that they have hear from mother who be regularly skip meal so that they could feed their child , live on the brink and rack with anxiety . the mental health impact of that be enormous . one mum of two , fill up on tea , be worried that her eld child just do not believe she any more when she say she have already eat . that be not something we should hear in 2025 . it sound like something from a Dickens novel , but over 5 , 300 child in South Devon be live poverty in 2023 , face daily challenge that no child should have to endure . if the Government lift the two - child limit today , family across my constituency and everywhere else would feel the difference immediately . surely , if we want to reduce the welfare bill in the long term , we must lift child out of poverty now to give they the good chance to grow up healthy , with the good opportunity to go on to have meaningful work . some 4 . 5 million child across the UK be live in poverty , and the two - child limit be one of the big driver of rise deep poverty among child . alongside that , the benefit cap disproportionately harm some of the most vulnerable in our society . single parent , disabled household and family struggle with high housing cost be penalise regardless of their actual need . and in an area where the ratio of income - to - housing cost be one of the high in the country , family in South Devon be particularly hard hit . that be not just unfair ; it be a fail policy that be cause real harm to child and their family . the Liberal Democrats believe that these arbitrary limit must be remove . we would replace they with an evidence - lead approach to social security , one that recognise the complexity of family life and the genuine need of child . invest in child be not only right ; it make economic sense . support family now reduce future strain on healthcare , social service and the justice system . it strengthen community and save public money . the Government must end the two - child limit and the benefit cap . that be the most effective way to lift hundred of thousand of child out of poverty , and we owe it to our child to do well . pessimism be understandable when brutality be overpower . just over a year ago , the british public try to shake off that pessimism and emerge from the brutal reality of life in Britain after 14 year of relentless cut that have tear apart the social safety net of our country . it be little wonder that people feel so pessimistic . the motion on welfare before we be the continuation of the austerity that have contribute to Britain become an incredibly unequal society . in 2010 , 30 , 000 people need an emergency food parcel ; now , that figure be over 3 million and rise . nearly 80 % of people who be reliant on food bank be in work . while the very rich have receive tax break and enjoy see their wealth grow at eye - watering rate , we have see the creation of a new stratum of society : the in - work poor . it be tell of the politic of this country that despite be the sixth large economy in the world , we have people in full - time employment who be reliant on the generosity of other to survive . that be pure political failure . morally , it be just not right . have a child be a blessing , and not a blessing that everyone receive . the two - child cap be an inherently cruel policy that punish the least advantaged . the idea that a third , fourth or fifth child be worth less than the first two be beyond wicked . I thank the hon . member for give way . the Government have not yet set out their policy on the two - child limit . if they decide not to scrap it , will he support that policy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that point , which I will come on to . he have clearly have advance sight of my speech . the Government should of course lift the two - child cap immediately , and it be wrong of they not to make that a part of the King ' s Speech . the wording in the motion refer to a " benefit culture " be both lazy and classist , not to mention demonstrate the ignorance — wilful or otherwise — of the Conservatives about the struggle experience by million in this country . however , I expect that from some in the conservative party . I agree that the welfare system be break and that it need change , but the change it need be not to be find in this motion or in what the Government put before the House last week . like thousand of my fellow party member , I do not expect that from the Labour party . last week ' s vote be a stain on a great party that should be defend and fight for the people that this motion seek to belittle . improve living standard should be the priority of this Government and every Government , and we be not do nearly enough — not yet . a year into this government , what people need be not mp create a living standard coalition group ; they need they vote in this place to improve living standard , not write letter about improve living standard . after last week ' s vote , which come too late for disabled people , I urge mps to wake up before make the same mistake again . I urge the Government to resist go down the road of pit old people against child or child against strike worker , or any of that nonsense . leave that division and nastiness to other party that seek to divide and conquer and create inequality . I call the shadow Minister . it have be a very good debate , and I be very grateful to all hon . member across the House who have contribute . it be still no clear to we what the Government think or intend to do about the two - child cap , but it have be very good to hear so many strong voice from the Opposition Benches for and against the two - child limit . of course , we do not really know what the Prime Minister himself think . he campaign for the labour leadership on a promise to scrap the two - child limit ; then , in order to win the general election , he campaign to keep it . now , under pressure from his Back Benchers — once again , I pay tribute to the real power in the Labour party — he be hint that he will scrap it after all at a cost of £ 3 . 5 billion . add to that the £ 4 . 5 billion the Government have to find because they abandon their welfare reform and the £ 1 . 3 billion they lose when they U - turn on the winter fuel payment , and the Government will have to find £ 9 . 3 billion this autumn . I would like to clear up what this Prime Minister and Government have do . they have expand eligibility for free school meal to include more than 3 , 000 child in Bracknell Forest ; expand Best Start family hub , which be something the previous Government never fund in Bracknell Forest ; expand the warm home scheme ; roll out free breakfast club in primary school ; limited expensive school uniform to three brand item — order . the hon . Gentleman should know that intervention must not be his speech read out at speed . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his recitation , much of which be conservative policy now rebrande by the Labour Government and the rest be further spending commitment . the Government be incapable of cut spending , so we know where this be head : tax rise in the autumn . there will also be tax rise on wealth . we know what wealth be : it be the product of economic success . it be what happen when people risk their capital and make thing that people want . Wealth mean more job , high wage and more tax revenue . it mean that we can reduce debt and invest in more business . and wealth taxis , which be come , will mean less of all that . that be the labour way — circle the drain and then go down to national bankruptcy . that be where a wealth tax and welfare spending lead we to , and the rest of the House seem to support that plan . accord to the late DWP datum , more than 11 , 800 child in my constituency of Dewsbury and Batley be live in poverty . this be not abstract and it be not inevitable ; it be a direct result of policy choice by the previous Government and the maintenance of that policy by the current Government . one parent share — Order ! may I please urge people to make intervention short and pithy and not pre - prepared and read out . I will come in a moment to the matter of child poverty , and I recognise the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . I be just refer to the fact that all the party except our — indeed , it be unclear what those on the Government Front Bench think — seem to support lift the two - child cap . the Liberal Democrats can not seem to see a spending opportunity without grab it with both hand . their spokesman , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , spend £ 4 . 5 billion just in his speech early this afternoon . then we have the SNP Government , who have preside over high economic inactivity and low employment than in England , have miss all their target for child poverty , and still clamour for more money for welfare . then there be the Reform party , which be sadly absent today . I do quite like the Reform party and I agree with its member on lot of thing , but there be a problem : they would spend money like drunken sailor . I can see what be happen and I be very worried about it — they will end up in an electoral pact with the Liberal Democrats with a joint ticket to protect welfare spending . I do not know how hon . member feel about the anticipated alliance . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) and other , particularly member on the Government Benches , have cite widen poverty rate over the past decade or more , and they repeatedly raise the issue of 4 . 5 million child , but they be talk about relative poverty . the fact be that relative poverty increase under the previous Government because , overall , the economy grow , as more people become more prosperous . as the median income rise , more people come under it ; that be how it work . if relative poverty go down under this government , it will be because they shrink the economy . that be highly likely , but it be not an achievement to boast about . relative poverty be not a measure of anything except the operation of the law of average . therefore , what we need to look at be real poverty , absolute poverty . as we rescue the public finance and grow the economy , absolute poverty go down under the Conservatives . on child , the percentage of child in absolute poverty after housing cost fall between 2010 and 2024 . we pull 800 , 000 people out of absolute poverty and avert over a million more people fall into absolute poverty . we have more people in work , a high employment rate , and few workless household than since record begin . we should thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for that . Mention be make of Wilberforce and Disraeli . one day they will add the name of Duncan Smith to that great record . order . that should have be " the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green " . it just doesn ' t flow as well , but yes , apology Madam Deputy Speaker . in 2023 , the shadow Minister say : " the narrative that the public have now firmly adopt — that over 13 year thing have get bad — be one we just have to acknowledge and admit . " do he still acknowledge and admit that thing get bad under his government ? I be grateful to the hon . member ' s archaeology in find my previous quote . many thing do get bad over the last decade and a half — of course I recognise that . but much of it be as a consequence of the global financial meltdown that his party preside over . we spend many painful year fix the deficit that Labour leave we . I want to quickly cite the previous Government ' s record on young people . Labour Members have boast of the new labour year , but in 1997 youth unemployment stand at 650 , 000 , and by the time Blair and Brown have finish in 2010 it be up a third to 940 , 000 . when we leave office 14 year later , we have almost halve it down to 560 , 000 — low even than in 1997 . that be the conservative record . I will conclude shortly , but I first say to those across the House who want to lift the child benefit cap to consider what they be ask . they be ask work people who pay more in tax than they receive in public service — and who themselves have have to take agonising decision about whether or not they can afford to have another child give the taxis they pay — to fund the benefit for other people who receive more from the system than they pay in . the shadow Minister make a point about the state funding child . do he accept that a million family that have three or more child receive child benefit presently ? if he accept that point , do he , as a father of three — as be I — not accept the principle that those child come first under the child benefit ? what be the difference between child benefit and universal credit ? do he want to cap child benefit at two child ? the difference be that child benefit be pay to everybody . child benefit be a universal entitlement . we need to ensure that we be not add to the incentive in the system to live a life on benefit . I fully recognise the point that the hon . Gentleman make . when I say that some people receive more from the system than they pay in , I be not try to stigmatise those people . that point have be throw at we , but it be not the case . I be not stigmatise people who receive more in benefit than they pay in tax . life be not all about whether someone be a net fiscal contributor or not . I agree with point make by some member that we should think more about social structure than fiscal transfer , but when it come to fiscal policy there be a limit . reciprocity matter , and when we be talk about money , it be right that people live on benefit face something of the same reality as people who pay for themselves . we still have too many family trap in welfare . what we need be more family and , yes , large family support themselves through well - pay work . we need a tax system like that in Europe , America and across the world , which recognise family . the previous Government make an important step with the change to the high - income child benefit charge , which be scrap by Labour . the good thing we can do for family be to get the tax system and , crucially , the wide economy right , so that we have good growth , good job , high wage , flexible childcare and strong community . the shadow Minister talk about trade - off in public finance , growth and child poverty . in the period since 2015 - 16 , there be zero progress on absolute poverty and zero progress on relative poverty — public finance ruin and growth flat . do he not think that the central trade - off be between a Tory Government and a thriving country ? the story of the last 14 year be quite easily tell . in 2010 there be a budget deficit of 9 % , and we have almost fiscal bankruptcy . we spend 10 year very painfully restore the public finance at great cost , and I totally understand that . then we be back down to a balanced budget . then covid hit , and we spend the last five year try to recover from that . on welfare , we have a very proud record of reduce unemployment and make work pay . since covid we now have this great problem of disability and sickness benefit . that be the challenge that we be undertake to fix as we leave office and that the Government have now completely fail to conclude . it be not too late . I be glad to see the Minister for Social Security and Disability in his place . his review should not wait until next autumn ; we need it this autumn . we need proper plan to fix the welfare system , not just to increase spending as the Government be now do . I urge hon . member across the House to support our motion . let I be clear : every member who do not be vote for welfare dependency and national bankruptcy . only the Conservatives have a plan to fix this . before I turn to some of the rawer politic as the debate demand , I thank all hon . member who have take part in this important debate . like other hon . member , I be appal by the level of child poverty in this country . run through the debate be an underlying and understandable anger at the unacceptable increase in child poverty since 2010 , with 1 . 1 million child use food bank to eat . I be sure that the Minister want to give a fair and balanced overview , and we all wish to see few people in relative poverty , notwithstanding his support last week for a measure that would have put it up by a quarter of a million . just to have balance on the record , do he recognise that , in absolute term , between 2010 and 2024 the number of child in poverty drop by 300 , 000 , and the number of people in poverty overall by 800 , 000 ? I absolutely accept that the Conservative party , because of its shameful record , make a fundamental change to the way in which poverty be assess . we have return to the internationally recognise comparator that expose that shameful record . we will not run away from that internationally recognise comparator . it be on that on which we will be judge , and the Conservatives must also be judge on that . I thank Labour Members who speak in the debate so passionately about the work that the Government have already do on child poverty and the conservative party ' s shameful record . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) , for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) — and , yes , my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . he and I may not agree on the process be follow by the Government to tackle child poverty wherever we see it , but I do not doubt his commitment and support to tackle it . I thank in particular my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) for his powerful personal testimony about his upbringing , and about the stigma of poverty and the shame that many parent feel when they require extra support . like he , I grow up in modest circumstance , as one of five child . for a period , in a single - parent household , we be dependent on tax credit , child tax credit and the education maintenance allowance — remember that ? I will not allow privately educate conservative spokespeople to lecture we on the plight of struggle family up and down the country when they have show no care at all about the part they play in put many of those family into crisis . that be so low . what be low be scrap the Child Poverty Act in 2016 . the Conservatives ' record on child poverty be cheap and low . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) can continue to chunter from a sedentary position ; I could reel off their record all day . will the Minister give way ? I will not at the moment . let I come to the shadow Secretary of State , who , like many conservative Members , be in total denial of the conservative record , not only on child poverty , but on the welfare bill , which have spiral enormously since 2020 . they put 4 . 5 million child in poverty , and they come here with this motion . there be no recognition of the fact that almost 60 % of family affect by the two - child limit be in work . there be no understanding of the lack of clarity in their motion , which do not specify whether it relate only to universal credit and child tax credit . it say that child " should not receive " any " additional funding " . what of child benefit ? what of disability living allowance for child ? the motion be not worth the paper it be write on , unless that be now their policy . the Conservatives have talk about personal and fiscal responsibility — quite unbelievable from the party that crash the economy and leave the welfare bill spiral . they take no responsibility for their action at all , but they seek to lecture other on how they should live their life . the shadow Secretary of State talk about give family broad support — for instance , through family hub . how many sure Start centre close under the previous Government ? in their first 10 year alone , it be 1 , 300 . then , we hear that only the Conservatives understand the importance of live within their mean . I have two word for the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) : Liz Truss . in Wales , sadly , we have some of the high rate of child poverty in the United Kingdom , and some of the high across Europe . why be that ? why be poverty so stubbornly high in Wales , and would lift the cap not improve thing for Welsh child ? lift the cap be one of the many lever that the Government be consider . we will look at that in the round , and when we come forward with our child poverty strategy , we will look to lift child in Wales , Scotland , Northern Ireland and here in England — child up and down this country — out of poverty , because that be a moral mission for this Government . indeed , we have already start that important work , with free breakfast club , free school meal for family on universal credit , restriction on brand school uniform item and , to the point make by the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , propose change to the Child Maintenance Service . we will also abolish direct pay , which be create by the conservative party . this will lift 20 , 000 child out of poverty . I be deeply move by the Minister ' s commitment to reduce poverty . will he explain why , as a Minister , he support the Government ' s proposal in the Universal Credit Bill last week , which their own impact assessment say would increase poverty ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that there be £ 1 billion worth of employment support alongside those measure , the impact of which be yet to be score by the Office for Budget Responsibility . we be serious about get people back to work as a route to tackle poverty , as well as provide an important safety net for those who need it . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) ask why other should subsidise someone ' s third , fourth or fifth child . I say gently to the Conservatives that it be never the child ' s fault . a third child have the same right to thrive as the first two , and if they do not , all three child suffer . a hungry child be a hungry child , whatever their background . on that point — I be afraid I will not take any further intervention , as I only have a couple of minute leave . the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) tempt I to speculate about decision around taxation . he will appreciate that that be way above my pay grade , and I hope that he be patient enough to wait for the next fiscal event to get an answer to his question . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . give collective responsibility , be it in order for a Minister of the Crown to argue against a policy of his own government ? if I have understand correctly , it be the policy of the Government and the Labour party to maintain the two - child benefit cap . order . the right hon . Gentleman will know that that be not a matter for the Chair , and he be seek to drag I into the debate . it be also not what I say , Madam Deputy Speaker . I say that we on our child poverty taskforce be consider all available lever in the lead - up to the child poverty strategy , which will come in the autumn . the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , make a point about control welfare spend . yet again , we hear that the four year post - covid be not an appropriate time to tackle the spiral welfare bill that the Conservatives create . in those four long year , the conservative party get through three Prime Ministers , five Ministers for health and work , six secretary of State for Education and seven Sunak reset , yet the welfare bill continue to spiral . child poverty worsen , and we have waste year , so we will take no lecture from the Conservatives on welfare spend , and certainly not on the good way to tackle child poverty . this party inherit the Conservatives ' shameful legacy of disastrous level of child poverty and a broken social security system that fail to command people ' s trust . across Government , we have start the urgent work to fix these problem and to drive down child poverty once again , as the last Labour Government do , in partnership with the devolved Administrations , charity , local authority and other , and to build a fair , more sustainable social security system that help people build well life by give they the right incentive and support . we will do that important work because tackle child poverty be a moral mission for this Government , and we will oppose this motion today because all lever be under active consideration as we seek to do so . before I put the question , I will just remind the Minister that , like the shadow Minister , he should not be refer to member by their name in the Chamber but by their constituency . question put . Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Ashley Fox Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Anna McMorrin Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 106 , Noes 440 . question accordingly negative . taxis I must inform the House that Mr Speaker have not select any amendment . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . I beg to move , that this House note that the Government be elect on the basis of a manifesto commitment not to increase taxis on work people and not to increase National Insurance or the basic , high , or additional rate of Income Tax , or vat ; accordingly regret the decision to raise employer ' National Insurance contribution in the Autumn Budget 2024 ; far regret the propose change to Agricultural Property Relief and the burden on taxpayer from increase in Council Tax , which be forecast to increase at its high rate in 20 year ; call on the Government to reaffirm the statement make by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Autumn Budget 2024 that , from 2028 – 29 , personal tax threshold will be uprate in line with inflation once again ; regret that the Government plan to bring those whose only income be the State Pension into pay Income Tax this Parliament ; and urge the Government not to introduce new taxis on the value of asset own such as saving , home and pension , which would drive wealth creator away from the UK . this be the Government of broken promise . the Labour party say during the general election campaign that it would do nothing on taxation , and yet it come straight into government and place £ 25 billion - worth of taxation on business up and down our country . we know the consequence of that : it kill growth nearly stone dead , and it have cost around £ 3 , 500 pound by way of low wage alone to the average work family . it be a clear breach of the Labour party ' s manifesto . member need not take my word for it — they can take Paul Johnson ' s , when he be the head of the Institute for Fiscal Studies . he have also be on the airwave recently describe the move as not just a breach of the Labour party manifesto , but a " blatant " breach . we have the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — then the shadow Secretary of State — out reassure farmer , look Tom Bradshaw , the president of the National Farmers Union , in the eye and tell he that at least when it come to inheritance tax , farmer have nothing to fear from a future Labour Government . how wrong they be ! then there be the winter fuel payment debacle . labour reassure pensioner up and down the country that it would not be mean - test the winter fuel payment . before somebody jump up and say , " well , it only exclude millionaire , " it do not — some 80 % of pensioner live below the poverty line be deny those payment and have to go through a long and cruel winter . the u - turn , when it finally come , will come as little comfort to pensioner who be now about to be drag into income tax for the first time as a result of the Labour party ' s policy . in opposition , the Labour party say it would freeze council tax , and yet we have see in the late spending review a £ 7 billion increase in council tax levy across this Parliament . accord to the IFS , it be the large increase in council tax in a generation — and that from the party that say it would not be put up taxis on work people . do it not think that work people pay council tax ? I be grateful to the shadow Chancellor for make that point . do he believe that a humble toolmaker who happen to own a small business be a work person ? indeed , my hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to stand up for everybody — even our toolmaker . let we be frank : we have have to table this motion today , which seek to do nothing other than reaffirm the commitment that the Labour party have already make , because of the litany of broken promise that I have just share with the House . do the shadow Chancellor agree that , follow the welfare u - turn , public finance today be in a far bad state than they be a year ago when the Government come into office ? there be a crucial difference : a year ago , the Conservative Government be take difficult decision to bring taxis down in order to grow the economy ; because this Labour Government be fail to take those decision , there be only one way taxis can go , and that be up . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and under his stewardship , thing be so much well . as he point out , the Government have resile from any attempt to control the welfare bill — an unfunded tax commitment of £ 5 billion . that , plus the u - turn on the winter fuel payment , be more than £ 6 billion of unfunded commitment that the Government be responsible for — unfunded commitment that they say they would never see themselves make . he be absolutely right : the legacy that he leave when he be Chancellor in the previous Government be the high growth in the G7 for our economy . we have near record level of employment , and near record low level of unemployment . we have have 13 consecutive month of real wage growth , and inflation have be bring down from over 11 % due to the Ukraine war , to bang on 2 % on the day of the general election . where be inflation now ? it be almost double what the Government inherit . give all the extraordinary and wonderful thing that the right hon . Gentleman be set out , be it not equally extraordinary that the british people think you be a shower and need to get rid of you — and they do ? that be why you be on the Opposition Benches and we be over here . order . I be not sure that the british people be seek to get rid of I . I think what the hon . Gentleman say be a gross impertinence , Madam Deputy Speaker . he also refer to you as an absolute " shower " , which be totally unreasonable . I have always be a great admirer of yours , as you know , and always will be . [ hon . member : " name he ! " ] name the hon . gentleman — quite . we have a Government who be grossly incompetent . as soon as they come into office , what do they do ? they talk down the economy . it be no surprise that the British Chambers of Commerce be now say that the no . 1 concern of its member be high taxis , or that the late survey by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales once again show that business confidence be down — and that be for the fourth survey in a row . amid the shadow Chancellor ' s quite correct exposition on the subject of where the Government have go wrong , do he not have a little pity for the Ministers on the Government Front Bench ? after last week , it be quite clear that they be no long responsible for the running of the Government , as that have be hand to the hard left who have no interest whatsoever in balance the book , and do not care about rise debt , rise gilt cost and the other irresponsible outcome of this Government , who be now absolutely out of control . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . when it come to criticise this government , it be always confuse whether to address those on the Front Bench or on the Back Benches , because they be never quite in the same place . the big mistake that the Government make be to talk down the economy by go on about this confected black hole of £ 22 billion — something that the Office for Budget Responsibility have already debunk . the Government should stop use that number . they be the one who create a black hole of some £ 6 billion , as I have just set out , and they should focus not on the black hole that they have invent , but on the one they have create . it be that black hole that be create speculation across the summer about what will happen in autumn , damage confidence and damaging business up and down the country . do the right hon . Gentleman accept that regardless of the actual size of the black hole leave by the previous Government , it be a significantly large number than the one he be talk about with respect to the welfare bill ? I be not sure that I fully understand the point , but the hon . Gentleman seem at least to accept that there be a real black hole when it come to this Government , of at least £ 6 billion . do my right hon . friend find it extraordinary that when the Government come into office they make a big play of put the OBR on a pedestal , but because they do not like the news , they now want to dismiss it and water it down ? well yes , exactly . the Government will look to any float branch or whatever to cling on to , to try to look a little well than they truly be . we have see a Government who have indulge in spending like it be the 1970 . the result of that have be to push up inflation , which have lead to interest rate be high for long than they otherwise would have be . it be all very well for Labour Members to trumpet the fact that there have be four interest rate cut since they come into office . the reality be that if they have not lose control of inflation , there would have be more and they would have come more quickly . the headroom that the Chancellor have against her fiscal target be wafer - thin . this be the usual labour way : spending and spending and spending until it run out of other people ' s money . the shadow Chancellor talk about interest rate rise . will he enlighten we as to why he think we should take lecture on economic competence from his party , which have a shadow Cabinet with 16 member who serve in the Government of Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng ? it would be sensible for the hon . Lady to look at those on her own Front Bench and ask why they take these appalling anti - business decision . the answer be that hardly any of they have any experience of private business or of set up a company — in fact , not one senior Front Bencher from her party have that . that be unlike the Conservatives — whether that be myself ; the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) ; the shadow Business Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) ; or other — who actually understand the real world of business . the shadow Chancellor make a very good point . be he surprised by the Federation of Small Businesses , which have come out and say that for the first time ever in its index — since record begin in 2008 — more small business will contract than will grow ? be he as worried as I be about what signal that send to those small business owner who be try to grow for our economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the reality be that if we tax something , we tend to get less of it . this Government have tax business , so it be not surprising that the economy have be damage as a consequence . an often fair question ask of the Conservatives be : what would we do ? let I answer that question directly . first , we would have take very different choice . we would not have load up taxation on business and stifle growth in the way that Labour have : we would have focus on productivity . we would not have come into office and give the train driver 14 % and the junior doctor 22 % with no string attach whatsoever . we be tell by the now Health Secretary during the run - up to the general election that all we need to do be get around the table with the union and settle and the problem would go away — well , the junior doctor be back for more . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will momentarily . we would of course have tackle the welfare bill , as we do when we be in office . we make £ 5 billion - worth of saving , as score by the Office for Budget Responsibility , and we have 450 , 000 few people go on to long - term sickness benefit as a direct consequence of our policy . we have a clear plan to go into government and save £ 12 billion a year in addition . while the shadow Chancellor be engage in such fascinating whataboutery at the Dispatch Box , will he take the opportunity to say which of the 25 tax increase in the last Parliament he regret or would undo ? I think this debate be actually about the tax policy of this Government . as I have clearly set out — [ interruption . ] to be fair , there be the small matter of covid , which come along and shrink the UK economy by 10 % overnight . People at the time speculate that we would see mass unemployment , the like of which our country have never , ever see , yet through our intervention we ensure that that do not happen . likewise , when the Ukraine - Russia war bring inflation to our shore through energy price spike , peak at 11 . 1 % at the back end of 2022 , we take the tough decision , along with the Bank of England , to bring that inflation down . in the meantime , we protect million of low - income family up and down the country from the consequence of that inflation . that come with a £ 400 billion price tag , so it be not surprising that some taxis have to rise in order to pay for that . the shadow Chancellor be make an excellent speech . do he agree that the danger be that if government do not have a prudent financial position , they end up in the situation that we be now see , with the interest on Government debt go up and up ? we be now pay around £ 10 billion a year more than we be at the time of the general election . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . with the increase Government debt to which this Government be constantly add , and the high interest rate for long for which they be responsible because of their extravagant spending , we be spend about £ 100 billion a year on simply service that debt , which be twice what we spend on defence . that be not sustainable , and thing will get bad under this Government . might the Chancellor elaborate on the national debt that the previous Government inherit in 2010 , compare with what we inherit last year ? I would be delighted to talk the hon . gentleman through that . the precede Labour Government leave this country with a deficit of 10 . 1 % , or £ 160 billion a year , so clearly we have to get on top of that deficit . it be a simple fact of economic life that if a country be run a large deficit , its debt increase , but by the time of covid , we have largely settle that deficit . for the reason that I give a moment ago , of course we add to the debt and the deficit at that point , because we have to intervene to stabilise the economy . however , the inheritance that we receive in 2010 be the start of that debt climbing . the hon . Gentleman should acquaint himself with the economic history . what approach can this Government take in the autumn ? they be not go to be save by growth — that be for the bird . the OBR , the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund have all downgrade growth , and the Office for National Statistics recently announce that for the second month in a row , we have have an economic contraction . how else might the Chancellor make the number add up ? well , despite Ministers insist that their commitment to the fiscal rule remain non - negotiable , there be report of potential change to the broad fiscal framework , include the early use of the flexibility of a 0 . 5 % of GDP range for the current budget target , which would allow £ 12 billion to £ 13 billion of extra borrowing . however , that would be a breach of faith . there be similar report that Ministers might move to just one OBR forecast a year , to avoid an embarrassing emergency Budget like the one we see in March . however , that would completely abandon the commitment not to sideline the OBR , so when the Minister come to the Dispatch Box will he reconfirm that the Government ' s commitment to the fiscal rule also apply to the fiscal framework , and that we will continue to have two OBR forecast per year ? the Government should be look not for yet more borrowing , but to rein in spending . however , the welfare debacle show that they be utterly incapable of do that , so that leave just taxis . the motion before we today simply ask the Minister to confirm the Chancellor ' s commitment not to extend the freeze on tax threshold . she specifically say in her Budget speech that such a move " would hurt work people . it would take more money out of their payslip . " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2025 ; Vol . 755 , c . 821 . ] when the Minister come to the Dispatch Box , will he confirm that he , too , hold that position ? will he also rule out wealth taxis ? we have already see ten of thousand of people — high net worth individual — leave our country . I know that socialist may say , " good riddance to they — they be wealthy " , but the Adam Smith Institute calculate that the tax forgone as a consequence of their departure be equal to the tax pay by around half a million people on average earning . the Labour party have no plan to stem that exodus of talent and wealth creation . whatever decision be take in the autumn , they will be bad one , and as nervous market look on , they may prove disastrous . it may even be that this government take we to a dark place ; it be hope not , but if history be any guide to the future , the light be surely flash red . surely , too , the british people , those hard - work man and woman up and down our country — the business , the entrepreneur , the farmer who toil all hour , our charity , our hospice , our veteran , our elderly , and all those who embody the very good of all that our country can be — deserve answer about the promise make to they , and about whether their pay packet , their pension and their saving be safe . surely , they deserve well than this wretched , rotten and defunct Labour Government . I congratulate the shadow Chancellor on another theatrical performance — one that I know we all enjoy across the House . I remember fondly his previous attempt to weave the story of " Alice in Wonderland " into his contribution . the only conclusion I can draw today be that he have not find his way out of the rabbit hole just yet . the shadow Chancellor make a number of point where he seem to rewrite history . it be all the fault of Russia invade Ukraine , with not one mention of Liz Truss — " who ' s that ? we ' ve never hear of she . " when ask why , if everything be so hunky - dory under the Conservatives , they suffer such an historic loss , the answer be , " oh , I don ' t know . " there be no answer to the question . we have hope when he say , " I will tell the House what I would do differently . " I sit and listen carefully , and the grand reveal : " I would focus on productivity . " well , I think the Conservatives say that before , and how do that go ? not one policy , suggestion or apology for their record — not one thing . in contrast , this Government be elect with an historic landslide and on a mandate of change . [ interruption . ] conservative member question our historic landslide , but they should look at the number of seat we have on our side of the House , and how many they have on theirs . I encourage they to remember that the aim of the game be to get member in this House . it be an historic landslide for the Labour party at the last election , elect on the promise of change — to put pound in the pocket of work people and to deliver for the renewal of Britain . at the Budget last year we fix the foundation , stabilise the public finance and put Britain back on the road to growth , after 14 year of conservative waste and decline . [ interruption . ] I know that the Conservatives do not want to hear it , but every time one of they get up to speak — we have hear it already — it be as if they have forget about the £ 22 billion black hole they leave in the public finance . rather than act to fix it , they call an election , run away and leave it for we to clear up their mess . this Labour Government will never repeat the mistake of the conservative party . the Chief Secretary say the name of the game be to get the maximum number of seat . I gently suggest to he that that be not the name of the game ; the name of the game be to serve the british people and honour the promise we make to they . [ interruption . ] he think that be amusing . if he want to know where his vast majority come from , it come with a series of promise that , one by one , he be break . I roll my eye because , evidently , all my hon . friend put themselves forward and stand to serve the country . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have make very clear , he change the Labour party to make sure that we put the country first . the right hon . Gentleman make the case that the name of the game be not to get member elect to this House ; if that be the case , he obviously play the game very well , because the Conservatives fail to do that miserably . at the Budget , we take the decision necessary to stabilise the public finance and give our public service a vital injection of cash to start to turn around the year of decline that member of the public across the country know : NHS waiting list grow , school crumble , the prison crisis , and project after project be cancel or delay . that investment be underpin by change to the tax system to make it fair and more sustainable , while protect work people against high taxis in their payslip . I wonder whether the right hon . Gentleman could help I out by explain what a work person be . a work person be someone who go to work , and in our manifesto we make a very clear commitment to protect work people through the taxis they pay on their pay slip — which be something that we experience when we go to work . however , we do more than that . we end tax break for private school to help fund new teacher and raise education standard , support more than 90 % of child in state school to achieve and thrive . we remove the outdated concept of domicile status from the tax system , so that all long - term resident of the United Kingdom pay their fair share of taxis here . we ensure that the UK tax system remain internationally competitive , reform the tax treatment of carry interest . we take further action by raise the high rate for additional dwelling for stamp duty land tax to support first - time buyer and main home mover , give they a competitive advantage . we make change to the energy profit levy to ensure that oil and gas company contribute to the clean energy transition . in the Budget last autumn the Government introduce the most ambitious package ever to close the tax gap , ensure that more individual and business pay the taxis they owe . the Chief Secretary talk about the Budget . I have speak to small business across my constituency that be feel the impact of last year ' s tax rise , and they be concerned about uncertainty and a lack of clarity . do he really understand the impact that last year ' s attack on small business be have , and how devastating they be for our constituent ? of course we engage with business , small and large , week in , week out , as Ministers in the Treasury , across Government , and in our constituency capacity . as member know , the introduction of the employer national insurance contribution be weight with change in the threshold for payment with the aim of reduce the burden on small business . we recognise that we be honour our promise to work people not to increase the headline rate of employee income tax or national insurance in their pay slip . like other benefit that replace income , the state pension be taxable , but the personal allowance will continue to exceed the basic and full new state pension , which mean that pensioner whose sole income be the full new state pension or basic state pension without any increment will not pay any income tax . the state pension continue to be the foundation of the support available to pensioner , back by this Government ' s commitment to the triple lock . this year more than 12 million pensioner have benefit from a 4 . 1 % increase in their basic or new state pension , which mean that under this Government those on a full new state pension will receive an additional £ 470 . the full new state pension be currently project to go up by around £ 1 , 900 over the course of this Parliament , on the basis of the late forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility . I note that member of opposition party have not oppose these spending plan . they have not say that they think the NHS should get less money this year , or that we have too many teacher , nurse or police officer . if they support our spending plan , I simply ask : how would they pay for they ? like many of my constituent , I welcome the investment that be announce by the Chancellor at the time of the spending review for the long - await regeneration of Kirkcaldy town centre , a town centre that go only one way under 14 year of conservative rule and 18 year of the SNP . they talk about support for small business , but what really happen be clear . do my right hon . friend agree that it have only be possible to do this because of the decision that we have make to raise revenue ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend , who be an excellent champion for her constituency . she be right to point out that the investment announce for her constituency be a consequence of the decision make by this Chancellor and this Labour Government to invest in the renewal of Britain . I be not sure what financial qualification the Chief Secretary have , if any , but last week ' s report suggest that , privately , minister be brief their Back Benchers that they will introduce a wealth tax without call it a wealth tax . can he confirm whether or not that be true ? that be a slightly odd question , but I can definitely confirm that any tax change , one way or the other , will be announce by the Chancellor at the Dispatch Box in the normal way in the autumn . as I say , Conservative Members be welcome to come forward with suggestion about how they might pay for the decision that this Government have take . maybe they disagree with our fiscal rule , which be our assurance to the financial market that we will live within our mean and reduce Government debt . the right hon . Gentleman be be generous in give way . one area the opposition would be look at be a coherent reform of the welfare system so that , by change the pathway to entitlement to benefit , we get that whole budget under control , which would make a meaningful difference to the fiscal position that the Government be in . as the right hon . Gentleman know , my colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions , with the Stephen Timms review and other work , be take those measure forward . order . the Chief Secretary be the third Minister or shadow Minister to refer to a colleague by name . it seem to be a bad afternoon for it . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be because the review be name after the Member , which lead to my name he , but the timms review will be take forward that work and come forward with proposal in due course . if conservative member wish to challenge the fiscal rule , I invite they to do so . do they instead think it would be wise to let debt balloon year on year , as they do , to pay for the day - to - day cost of Government , ultimately spend more and more on debt interest and less on the priority of work people ? in contrast , our fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and they be the foundation for stability and investment . the first rule be for stability — that day - to - day Government spending should be pay for through tax receipt — which be the sound economic choice and also the fair choice , because it be not right to expect our child and future generation to pay for the service we rely on today . this first rule allow my right hon . friend the Chancellor , at the Budget last year , to allocate £ 190 billion more to the day - to - day run of our public service over the course of this Parliament . the second fiscal rule have enable this Government to invest in Britain ' s economic renewal while get public debt on a downward path . this rule have allow the Chancellor to increase public investment by over £ 100 billion in the autumn and a furth £ 13 billion this spring — investment to rebuild our transport network , our defence capability and our energy security . in short , it be investment to grow our economy , improve living standard and put more money into the pocket of work people in every part of the country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . let I be clear : the legacy leave behind by the last Conservative Government be one to be ashamed of . their incompetence in govern leave school and hospital crumble , social care cripplingly underfunde , and record level of sewage in our lake and river . their record be a dispiriting picture of low growth , high interest rate and record level of inequality . we know that this Government inherit a mess , and we know that the cause of that mess be year of reckless economic mismanagement , but that can not be allow to serve as cover for measure that damage business or cause suffering for the vulnerable in our society . the decision take by this Government at the autumn Budget have not work . the national insurance job tax will damage small business , low people ' s living standard and undermine the Government ' s own ambition for growth . People endure year of conservative mismanagement , which be why this new Government should be do far more to grow our economy , create new job and improve living standard . the Liberal Democrats acknowledge that the Government have tough decision to make . however , instead of raise national insurance , cut disability benefit and cut departmental budget even far , they should be take bold and ambitious step to grow our economy , which be the good way to raise tax revenue and boost living standard . that be why we have be call on the Government to ignore the scaremongering from those on the conservative Benches , and urgently negotiate a new , bespoke UK - EU custom union . on taxation , as set out in amendment ( b ) , table by my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , we all know that the Government be desperately look for way to raise revenue . I encourage Treasury Ministers to take a look at the measure set out in last year ' s Liberal Democrat manifesto , which would ensure that revenue be raise in a fair way , take into account the huge amount of economic inequality that , sadly , we see across the United Kingdom . this huge inequality in our country threaten to rip our social fabric apart , which be why the Liberal Democrats have propose a well way : raise revenue fairly , do so practically and tackle inequality ; increase taxis on some of the big and wealthy corporation , include the big bank , by reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for bank ; ensure that the wealthy people in the world who be do business here be tax effectively , by raise the digital service tax from 2 % to 10 % ; fairly reform capital gain tax in a way that cut tax , or keep it the same for the vast majority , while ensure that the wealthy 0 . 1 % can not avoid pay their fair share ; and double remote gaming duty to ensure that gambling company pay their fair share . those step could happen immediately , so I hope Ministers , who be keen to fill a fiscal hole , might follow our advice . the previous Government do so much damage to our high street business , but the Labour Government ' s national insurance job tax have only make thing even hard for they and their worker . high street business be the beat heart of our economy at the centre of our local community , and they create the job that our community rely on . the change to employer national insurance contribution announce in the autumn Budget be an unfair job tax which will have highly damaging impact across many sector : on social care provider ; on GPs ; and on the hospitality sector , which have be hit by an extra £ 3 . 4 billion in annual cost through the cumulative impact of the change announce in the autumn Budget . the Liberal Democrats vote against the change to employer nic at every opportunity . I once again urge the Government to scrap those measure . as the motion look to examine the cause of the economic challenge face by people and business across the country , a perhaps surprising omission be the ongoing disastrous damage cause by the Conservatives ' pitiful Brexit deal . the appalling agreement negotiate by the last Conservative Government have be a complete disaster for our country , particularly for high street business , who be hold back by ream of red tape and new barrier to trade , cost our economy billion in lose export . the dismal picture of the financial impact of their terrible Brexit trade deal be become increasingly clear . a recent survey of 10 , 000 UK business find that 33 % of currently trade enterprise experience " extra cost directly relate to change in export regulation due to the end of the EU transition period " . small business have be particularly badly affect , with 20 , 000 small firm stop all export to the EU . and a recent study have find that good export have fall by 6 . 4 % since the trade deal come into force in 2021 . the liberal Democrats welcome the step this Government be take to rebuild our relationship with the EU , but I urge they to recognise that this should only be a first step towards negotiate a bespoke UK - EU custom union . independent analysis have show that a close trading relationship with the EU could boost GDP by 2 . 2 % . that would bring in roughly £ 25 billion of extra tax revenue every year , which would be crucial for fix the public service which the conservative party leave break . more broadly , as we look at measure which would ease the pressure feel by so many business and boost the economy as a whole , we continue to call on the Government to introduce vital reform to the business rate system . in 2019 , the previous Conservative Government promise a fundamental review of the business rate system , but they fail to deliver it . meanwhile , the current Government pledge to replace the system in their manifesto , but still no action have be take . the current system penalise manufacturer when they invest to become more productive , leave pub and restaurant with disproportionately high tax bill , and put local business at a disadvantage to online retail giant . the Liberal Democrats have call for a complete overhaul of the unfair business rate system and its replacement with a commercial landowner levy that would shift the burden of taxation from tenant to landowner . our proposal for fair reform would cut tax bill , breathe new life into local economy and spur growth . equally important , it would provide long - term certainty for business , which be what everybody across the UK want . on the liberal Democrat Benches , we know the extent of the challenge the Government face when they come into office . we acknowledge that they inherit a dire economic landscape — challenge now exacerbate by an unreliable actor in the White House and an aggressive Russia — but that can not be an excuse for the mistake the Government be make . they must take bold action to boost our economy . as such , we support the call in today ' s motion to scrap the national insurance job tax and reverse the change to agricultural property relief . People across the country be still struggle with the cost of living crisis , just as small business remain burdened with sky high energy price , now compound with an unfair job tax and an unfair business rate system . the Liberal Democrats will continue to urge Ministers to go far and act with more urgency , invest in skill by reform the apprenticeship levy , properly fund social care and boost growth through negotiate a bespoke UK - EU custom union to give our economy the boost it so desperately need . I rise to speak against the opposition motion . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer have raise taxis . she have do so to stabilise the public finance , because the public finance that the Labour Government inherit be in a shocking state ; she have do so to invest in public service , in particular the NHS and school , because public service be leave in a shocking state by the previous Government ; she have do so to invest in national security ; and she have do so to invest in Scotland . my right hon . friend have raise taxis because public finance need to be manage carefully . we can not keep pretend that we have money when we do not . on pretend , it seem to I that Labour like to pretend that the covid pandemic never happen and that the £ 400 billion that the previous Government spend to protect the country and protect job , which labour support and ask we to go far on , never happen . will the hon . Gentleman reflect on that and at least acknowledge what happen in the recent past ? I be very happy to reflect that the covid pandemic happen , but I also reflect that Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng ' s mismanagement happen . the Conservatives lose the last election because they make a mess of the economy . they have lose their reputation for economic competence , which be why they have lose so many mp and suffer an extinction event . I read in today ' s Times that it be think that the common crane have be extinct for more than 500 year in Scotland , but it be now report that there be six or seven nesting pair in Scotland — more than we have conservative mp , and there may be a reason for that . the opposition motion imply a reversal of more than £ 20 billion in taxis . the Opposition need to explain how they would fund that . what cut would they make , and what effect would that have on the business they claim to support ? they need to explain whether they would reverse the investment in the NHS , which be essential to business . many business have say to I that they want to see investment in the NHS in order to get the waiting list down and reform the service . that be exactly what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health be do . the disruption cause to business by NHS waiting list be significant , but they be now come down — if only the same could be say for Scotland . the opposition must explain whether they would reverse the investment in education , because business say to I every week that they want to see investment in skill . they need skilled worker to grow their business . it be essential for economic growth . as a Scottish MP , do the hon . Gentleman wish to differ slightly with those on his Front Bench , who have say there should be no new licence for North sea oil and gas ? that policy do not mean that we will consume a drop less oil and gas ; it simply mean that we will import it from abroad with high emission and with ten of billion of pound of tax and ten of thousand of job lose . surely , as a Scottish MP , he should speak up for his constituent and say to those on the Front Bench , " come on — let ' s get those licence go again . " all I will say , Madam Deputy Speaker , be the plain fact be that North sea oil and gas will be produce for many year to come , and the Government support that . the Government be also support investment in the industry of the future , such as offshore renewable . under the Conservative Government , there be a contract for difference auction with no successful bid , set back our access to fix - price , cheap electricity . that be the Tory economic policy on energy : turn up their nose at cheap , fix - price energy . it be little wonder we be in such a mess . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I would like to make some progress , because there be many speaker , but I will give way . I would just like to follow up on the hon . Gentleman ' s talk down of scottish skill and training — classic Labour . how do he reconcile the disparage characteristic that he paint of scottish skill , entrepreneurialism and training when Scotland have , for 10 year run , be the top destination for foreign direct investment outside London ? what be it that foreign enterprise can see in Scotland that no Labour MP ever will ? I can not recall say anything disparage about scottish education . I do criticise the scottish NHS — [ interruption . ] well , the reality be that business be absolutely petrified of the way the SNP be deal with scottish education . we have insolvent university and college in crisis , and education standard be plummet . those be the fact , and they be why the scottish SNP Government will lose in 2026 and we will have a new First Minister . the Conservatives be mean to be patriotic and pro - defence . how be the investment in defence to be pay for ? would they reverse the record settlement for the Scottish Government give that we have scottish election next year ? I think they should explain . rise — I will make some progress if I may . our debt to GDP ratio be almost 100 % , and we inherit that from the previous Government . conservative Members object to tax rise while want tax cut and increase in public spending and object to spending cut . that be not realistic . we know from the disastrous Budget of Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng that we must manage finance carefully . some Opposition Members suggest that we should get rid of the Office for Budget Responsibility . the Conservatives shun the OBR when Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng put forward their Budget and we know what happen then . I find it quite surprising therefore that we still have Conservative Members who want to get rid of it . the conservative approach to the economy simply do not grapple with the serious state of the public finance ; it inhabit a world of wishful thinking — a world of high inflation , high Government borrowing cost and high interest rate . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will make some progress . the huge inflation unleash by the previous Government cause immense misery to my constituent . the interest rate rise make life a misery for hard - work family who have buy their home in Glasgow East . that be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer be right to focus on appropriate management of the economy and not wishful thinking . the real question be this : what have the Conservative party come to . will it ever return to see thing as they be , rather than propose policy that bear no relationship to reality ? its proposal , as I understand they , be a form of magical realism , which be why the electorate have cast they into 100 year of solitude . I can make a very short speech today , Madam Deputy Speaker , because my right hon . friend , the shadow Chancellor , in his brilliant speech at the beginning of this debate , set thing out so clearly . there be common theme run through both Opposition debate today . the first be that the Government have lose control of expenditure and the second one , which I want to develop very briefly , be that the Executive have fail to listen with appropriate care to what people in this House have say . on the first of these point , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) say in an eloquent intervention just a few minute ago that the Government need to work out how to fix last week ' s fiasco with the welfare Bill . far from save money , this be virtually now another spending measure . it be important to remember that as the former Chancellor my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) set out clearly , have we be successful in win the last election , we would have reduce the number of working - age welfare recipient to pre - covid level , thus save £ 49 billion by the end of this Parliament . the reason I focus on this welfare issue be that it be welfare expenditure with which this Government must get to grip , and they have fail to learn the lesson of the past . I be a very junior welfare Minister in what be then the Department of Social Security between 1995 and 1997 . I learn two very important rule , which this Government would do well to consider . on both , it be clear that welfare reform be extremely difficult . the first be that we can not take away from poor people benefit that they be already receive . I think I be right in say that no Conservative Government have ever reduce disability benefit in payment . but Labour do not absorb that vital lesson , which be why they get into so much trouble last week . the second rule be that if a Government want to reduce the benefit bill , there be only really two way of do it . the first be to freeze the level of benefit ; that have be do in the past , and it mean not fall into the trap that the Government fall into last week . the second be to narrow the gateway into those benefit for future recipient . I urge the Government to absorb these important rule , because they will have to return to the issue of welfare expenditure if they be to make any progress at all on the economy . I hugely praise the rebellion last week by Labour Back Benchers . they have hopefully teach the Executive a most useful lesson : listen to Back Benchers with respect and close attention . as a former Chief Whip , however , I deprecate rebellion unless I be involve in they . it usually take year for the Executive to get into the habit of treat their Back Benchers with contempt and derision as unelected Downing Street special adviser strut up and down Whitehall , but this lot — this government — manage to accomplish it extraordinarily quickly . they have learn the hard way not to treat their Back Benchers and elect member with so little respect . since work at Oxfam and campaign for tax justice , I have admire the right hon . Gentleman ' s work . be the conservative party to listen to he , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , it could find its way back to a centrist position , which would be of benefit to our country . will he acknowledge that this Government have a difficult inheritance ; that since we come to power , we have face a changed world , with tariff , trade war , sluggish global growth , rise authoritarianism and democratic backsliding ; and that as a result , this Government have a hard job ? will he acknowledge that , so we can start to think about how we take forward share improvement ? the hon . Gentleman bring I elegantly to my final point . have praise Labour Back Benchers and encourage they to speak out , my one ask be that they now stand up for the election pledge , clearly set out in their manifesto , to restore development spending to 0 . 7 % . I ask they to show the same zeal and enthusiasm as they do on welfare for bring back the 0 . 7 % . inexplicably and astonishingly , their Prime Minister have cut the figure from the 0 . 5 % they , alas , inherit from we down to 0 . 3 % , and it be already cause massive difficulty , of which the hon . member , with his background in Oxfam , will be fully aware . when the House come back in September , I urge the hon . member , particularly give his experience , to join other Back Benchers in say to the Executive , " we will not put up with this . we say in our election manifesto that we would restore development spending to 0 . 7 % , and in the same way that we show the Government Front Benchers that they could not proceed as they plan with welfare , they can not proceed as they plan to with development spending . " I urge Labour Back Benchers to ensure that this rethink take place in the autumn , when the folly of what have happen will be even clear . rise — order . the right hon . Member have set the tone with his speech length . if all member could stick to around six minute , everyone will get in . I call Joe Powell . I congratulate the shadow Chancellor on secure a debate on this motion . when this government come into office , they find Britain ' s public finance vandalise , the economy wreck , debt soar , sky - high mortgage , a cost of living crisis that have touch every household in this country , and a mismanage pandemic , rife with dodgy contract and corruption . the Conservatives today pretend that they have discover fiscal responsibility , but we all remember that they increase taxis 25 time in the last Parliament , and gift we the reckless Liz Truss mini - Budget , which send mortgage spiral and tank the market . no Government in live memory have have a bad economic inheritance than this one . the Conservatives have no credible economic plan for deal with the debt , no credible plan for growth , and no credibility whatsoever with the british public . what they do to the public finance and the national debt even before the pandemic be unforgivable . Labour Members pretend that 2010 be year zero . in truth , in 2010 there be an annual deficit of 10 % of gdp in Government spending , which mean that the Government be borrow £ 1 for every £ 4 they be spend . do the hon . Member not acknowledge , or understand , that that be a far bad economic inheritance than any Government have be offer since the second world war ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , because it be important to talk about debt . I be disappoint that the shadow Chancellor fail to acknowledge that the inheritance in 2024 be total national debt of close to 100 % of GDP , which be up from 60 % in 2010 . the annual debt payment that the Government be have to make — as other have say , they be close to £ 100 billion , thank to the Government ' s economic inheritance — be 8 . 3 % of total public spending . imagine what we could do if we spend that money on the NHS , our school , or fix the housing crisis . this go much deep than debt . the truth be that we inherit a sick economy , affect living standard , wage and public service , and there be no plan for growth . the Conservatives leave Britain with rise debt and flatlining growth , yet they oppose the very measure that the Government have take to fix their mess . just to correct the record , on the economy , we have the high and fast growth in the G7 when we lose the election . we hand the government that high growth . I know it be hard for Back - Bench Labour mp to grapple with that , but it be a fact none the less . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . of course , the Conservatives tank the economy , and when there be such a dramatic decline in growth , increase it from a very low level to a slightly high one be relatively straightforward . the economic growth figure for the first quarter of this year , as we know , be the high in the G7 . the Government be try to fix the mess , include through measure worth over £ 20 billion a year — measure aim at repair our public finance by address the black hole and invest in public service that be wreck by austerity , poor management and wishful thinking . the Conservatives have a nerve to pretend that they would do thing differently now . my constituent tell I the same . indeed , a local resident , George , have be vociferous about the lack of a credible economic plan from the conservative party , and will not stop share his view on the airwave . yes , even the former Chancellor of the Exchequer think that the Conservatives have no answer to the fiscal challenge that the country face . there be plenty that George Osborne and I disagree on , but he be absolutely right on that . at every turn , the conservative party be back the blocker and prevent a plan for economic growth , whether it be the Leader of the opposition block new energy infrastructure in her own backyard or the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , sign letter to delay vital transport infrastructure . it be no wonder that our economy have be hold back for so long . the other party , too , have nothing to offer . reform want Liz Truss ' s reckless economic all over again — the same fail experiment of unfunded tax cut that crash our economy and leave our constituent pay the price . meanwhile , the liberal Democrats promise all the benefit of tough decision with no way to pay for they . it be pure fantasy economic . I be glad that the Government have commit to not repeat those mistake . it will fall on the Labour party to fix this mess , rebuild our economy and deliver the secure growth that Britain need . nowhere be the cost of failure clear than in the broken housing system . London borough now spend £ 4 million every single day on temporary accommodation — a massive waste of taxpayer ' money . the Conservatives also lock we into pay billion for over - inflate asylum hotel contract . that be another egregious waste of taxpayer money that we inherit from they . that be the direct result of not plan for investment or for the long term ; it be the price of short - termism and a failure to plan for the future . let we look at housing — one part of our plan . we have ambitious planning reform to deliver the great impact on growth at no fiscal cost . we have the big investment in social and genuinely affordable home in a generation . we have leasehold reform , protection for renter and a new decent home standard , which be all oppose by the conservative party . this Government be make tough choice to raise revenue . the Conservatives talk about business ; I meet business all the time , and I understand the pressure that they be under . they tell I that it be vital that NHS waiting list fall , so that their employee can access the treatment that they need ; that we have modern infrastructure in Britain , include transport and energy ; that their staff can afford housing option ; and that we agree an EU youth mobility scheme to support our hospitality industry . when business in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency make people redundant , do those employer explain to his constituent that they have to do that for the good of the NHS ? I be glad that business confidence be at a nine - year high — that be from an independent assessment . the decision that the hon . Gentleman refer to be already make a difference . do he oppose the 4 million extra NHS appointment that this Government have manage to secure so far ; the three trade deal with the US , India and the EU — deal that the conservative party fail to get over the line — the four interest rate cut ; the effort to close the tax gap ; the fact that wage have grow more in our first 10 month in office than under the last 10 year of the Conservative Government ; the rise in the national minimum wage to support low - pay worker ; and the expansion of free school meal to half a million child , which also lift 100 , 000 out of poverty ? the motion before we offer no idea and no credible plan . if the conservative party be serious about economic growth and tax , it would do some reflect on its record , apologise to the british people and get behind the Labour plan to get Britain ' s economy boom again . the motion be simply ask the Government to commit to what they put in their manifesto . it seem that we be hear every sort of speech other than speech that address that point . let we first take the national insurance rise . it be extraordinary to ask we to believe that business in Labour Members ' constituency be delighted that their taxis have go up because that will help public service . I be sure that they be all keen to see their taxis go up again to satisfy the new 30 % pay rise that resident doctor want . we be tell that that would not happen , and that that be why the Government have to put up taxis the last time . a bit of reality have to come to this conversation , give that local business be either cut people ' s hour , on a recruitment freeze , make redundancy or go into liquidation . let we think about company that go into liquidation . after 30 year of trading , a company in my constituency go into liquidation last month , simply because it could no long cope with the NI rise . that be the straw that break the camel ' s back . twelve people be make redundant immediately , mean there would be no more taxis — no more income tax or purchase tax — from that business , and on top of that , benefit would have to be pay . we be on a downward spiral of tax and spend in this country . indeed , it be quite incredible to listen to the speech from Labour Members . it be as if nobody have leave the country , no money have be withdraw from the City , and no person have take their asset elsewhere . those be literally the headline on the economy , day after day , in the Financial Times and other newspaper , yet we get a lot of hark back to the past , rather than recognition that Labour have be in power for more than a year . my right hon . friend make an excellent point about growth and wealth creator be tax out of this country . they be simply take their money and leave , as the Labour party continue to tax they . my hon . friend sum thing up perfectly . what terrify I be that the Government do not seem to be take any notice of that . when they talk about bring in more taxis , such as a wealth tax , Labour Members all cheer . when my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor — I think it be he — say that Labour member do not care , and would like to see more people who have wealth go , someone on the Government Benches shout " good ! " it be absolutely incredible to say that the people who generate the wealth in this country be the enemy . let we just think about my constituency of Wetherby and Easingwold , which do exactly what it say on the tin : Wetherby and Easingwold be the two main market town in the constituency . market town be part of the big ecosystem of the economy that be link around farming , and the farming tax have create a huge problem in the farming community . People be scared to invest in capital equipment . that be the first thing . " how be we go to pay these bill ? be it even worth pass the farm on ? so let ' s pause our investment . " that ecosystem in my constituency be not just about the farmer and what get sell at the farmer ’ market . it be about the business that service farm equipment . it be about the business that supply mechanical support . it be about the business that be involve in every aspect of the supply chain around farming in my constituency , and the worry and concern that be be feel throughout the community mean that they do not spend any money . that mean that the Government be now lose out on vat and on other taxis . so , what be their answer ? let we bring in a wealth tax ; let we tax more — it be quite frankly frightening . in term of taxation , I be terrify of where this country be head . the right hon . Member be make an important speech . some 80 % of millionaire in our country want to pay more tax . they want to contribute to our society and to our public service , so do he agree that when people want to pay more tax , they should be give the opportunity to do so ? I be sure it have just slip the hon . Gentleman ' s mind that people have the ability to do that . famously , when Stanley Baldwin be the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , he give a third of his wealth to the country to try to help with the national deficit . he do it behind the scene and just sign it " FST " . he do not actually declare that it be from he . People can pay more tax if they wish . what they can not do be sit in an unfair position where they can see that we do not have the most competitive taxis in the world ; otherwise , they would stay here . it be blatantly obvious what be happen . if I be to throw a party at my house and I lock everybody in and halfway through the party they be try to tunnel under the fence or get out in a hot air balloon , I would not say , " well , that ' s go really well . let ' s lock some more door . " this be an overall assault on the lifeblood of the economy of this country . all this motion do today be ask whether the Government will be stick to their manifesto promise . when the Chancellor come to the Dispatch Box last July , about a year ago , she keep talk about the OBR . she talk up the OBR , say we could never again have a situation like under the Tories where they ignore the OBR . she announce £ 22 billion - worth of taxis for the alleged black hole . the OBR immediately come out and say , " that ' s not true , it doesn ' t exist . " at well , it be £ 9 billion , and most of that have be cause by give pay rise to the public sector because , allegedly , that would solve the problem . we on these Benches warn that , without reform , the public sector would come back . and boy , have they come back ! if the Government want to be believe that there be a £ 22 billion hole , one , why do they raise taxis by £ 44 billion ; two , why do they then do another £ 30 billion - worth of borrowing ; and three , how come we now have a £ 30 billion hole ? that be a £ 100 billion hole in the economy that have be create since 12 month ago . how can anybody say that the Government have take responsibility for the economy and be build it up ? somebody on the Labour Benches say that we be try to rewrite history , but they be try to rewrite the last two week ! labour be the only party I have know to come to the House try to cut welfare and increase the bill ! where be the money come from ? what do we hear ? we hear that we must get rid of the triple lock , because it be now go to cost £ 15 billion instead of £ 5 billion . how about we stop people self - declare just to have time off work and get on universal credit , which be cost £ 40 billion , and we do not hit people who be on fix income who do not have the ability to do other thing ? a great number of the retired people in this country be carry the burden of support their family in work , look after their grandchild , and do those thing unpaid . we should be grateful to pensioner in this country and not be say , " you ' re the one whose income we ' ve get to cut " because the Government be let welfare run out of control . this do not stop at what the Government have do to business in my constituency or to the ecosystem that rely on a rural economy , and it do not stop at they want to put solar panel all over credible farming land , push those business out even far , because they have bring in vat on school , and they have do it through pure ideology and envy . my constituent be not rich people . they have car that be 15 or 20 year old . they do not go on holiday . they have be put money in to give their child the good education , and they be now have to withdraw their child from those school . the Labour party have decide to tax hard - work family on their choice of education . it mean that people can no long send their child to a SEND special school . it mean they no long have the choice to use their money , because the Labour party want to take a little more tax from they . do my right hon . friend agree that it be not a fair process and it be actually exclude people who want to protect their child for the future ? my hon . friend make a very powerful point . I be just wrap up , but I will tell you this , Mr Deputy Speaker : I be a comprehensive schoolboy , and I be not go to take any lesson off the private schoolboy on the Front Bench who tell I that it be unfair that we be not tax people who be try to do the good for their child — talk about pull up the ladder , I ' m all right , Jack . overall , the economy be be destroy under this Government . we will have a political kickabout this afternoon , but I be terrify of where we be go . the 1970 be back good and proper — public sector strike , ridiculous pay demand constantly bring the Government down , 240 % debt to GDP ratio predict on this path , more and more taxis to come , and more and more wealthy people leave . we see what happen by 1977 when we go off to the IMF . the situation be so bad that the IMF say no ! we be on that path , and it terrify I . rise — order . it have become apparent already that if we be to get everybody in , we will have to set a formal time limit . after the next speaker , I will put in place a six - minute time limit . if there be a lot of intervention , which will of course add time , it will be reduce smartly to five minute and possibly even to four minute . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate , and I do so on behalf of my constituent , who dutifully pay their taxis in the expectation that they will receive a fair deal in return . today ' s motion from the official Opposition imply that the effort that this Government have undertake to deliver that fair deal be not in the interest of those constituent . I reject that premise entirely . instead , Labour in government have constantly and rightly stick to ensure that those with the broad shoulder carry the great burden . that approach have secure over £ 20 billion a year of revenue to pay for school , the NHS and our national security . the Chancellor have restore responsibility and credibility — will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress give the time limit that will be put in place on other member . that finally put we on a strong footing to move on from the irresponsible and reckless chaos of Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget and the litany of unfunded spending commitment leave behind by the previous Administration , who have no intention of implement they . I must remind the House of what Labour inherit from the last government when the Chancellor walk through the door of no . 11 just over a year ago : a national debt at nearly 100 % of gdp — the high since the 1960 ; living standard fall for the first time since the 1950 ; anaemic growth that leave we second to last in the G7 ; and the UK as the only G7 country where the employment rate have still not recover to pre - covid level by the first quarter of 2024 . that be the conservative legacy — a legacy of economic mismanagement and a tax system weigh down by loophole , complexity and underenforcement , so I will take no lecture on fiscal responsibility from the architect of that wreckage . we on the Labour Benches will not indulge the fantasy that the path to prosperity lie in slash public service , make unfunded promise and claim that we can borrow endlessly without consequence . our constituent deserve well . this Government , lead by the Prime Minister and the Chancellor , be get on with what Labour always provide : a Government of service . first , let I address the abolition of the outdated non - dom regime . for too long , our tax code allow the very wealthy to live in this country and enjoy our service , infrastructure and rule of law but contribute only a token amount to the national purse . that end , quite rightly , with this Government . the new residency - base regime be a matter of principle : " if you live here , you pay here . " secondly , we have increase the rate of capital gain tax on share sale — not to punish wealth but to deliver fairness . many of my constituent contact I to say that they see no reason why wealth — asset , and stock and share — should be tax less than work . there be more to be do on that , but I welcome the measure that the Government have take so far . what the Labour party be say very clearly — it be useful to have it clarify — be that those who scrimp and save , who decide to give money or home to their child , who save their farm for their child , do not matter . they will be the one who be punish under Labour — not those who scrounge on benefit , but those who have save their money and make choice . labour be say that those be the people it will punish . I thank the hon . gentleman for clarify that . the hon . Member would do well to listen to what I have to say , and I will come to wealth taxation shortly , but I would appreciate it if she do not take that very condescend tone with I — I spend more than a decade work in the financial service industry myself . these measure have be take because it be simply the right thing to do . when a nurse in Bolton hospital be pay a high effective tax rate than someone make million on property or share , the system be not just break ; it be unfair . thirdly , the Government have crack down on tax - dodging , with more funding for HMRC to go after tax evader and bring down the stubbornly high tax gap . that gap — the difference between what the Government be owe and what they actually collect — currently stand at almost £ 50 billion . that figure — 50 , 000 time £ 1 million — be almost the size of the entire defence budget in 2023 - 24 . unlike the dearth of policy proposal from the conservative party , I constructively implore the Government to continue tackle the enabler of dodgy tax scheme . firm that promote aggressive tax avoidance scheme will now be hold to account with fine of up to £ 1 million . I welcome that measure in particular . on that point , do my hon . friend agree that it be important for HMRC to work with local authority to take action on tax evasion by high street store that do not act fairly , like the awful Harry Potter store in my constituency ? I be worried about the impact that they have on the high street and on our tax revenue . my hon . friend , who have be a fantastic champion on tackle that issue , make a valid point . the opposition would have we believe that taxis writ large be a drag on growth , but the truth be more nuanced . what stifle growth be instability . what repel investment be unpredictability . what corrode trust be a tax system that reward avoidance while underfunde our school , hospital and police . labour be put more money in people ' s pocket by boost the minimum wage for 3 million worker . wage be grow more in our first 10 month than in an entire 10 year under the Tories . I would urge the Chief Secretary to the Treasury not to rest on his laurel , however , because there be more to do . I propose three policy priority that I hope the Treasury will give serious consideration . first , we should review and reform current tax relief . some £ 204 billion — a quarter of all tax revenue — be spend on tax relief in 2022 - 23 , yet many of those relief be uncoste , unscrutinised and susceptible to abuse . the Treasury Committee be right to call for a rationalisation of those relief . we must audit they for efficacy , eliminate those that serve no public interest and crack down on those that have become vehicle for avoidance . secondly , I draw the Minister ' s attention to the issue of tax - dodging in our own backyard . at the end of last month , a number of british overseas territory , include the tax haven of the British Virgin Islands , miss yet another deadline to introduce public register of beneficial ownership . the Minister will know that this be a long - run issue . the BVI in particular have miss deadline in 2020 , 2023 and 2025 , as the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) know well , he have campaign strongly on this issue over many year . in January this year , the Bureau of Investigative Journalism , work alongside the BBC and the Guardian , reveal that Roman Abramovich , the former owner of Chelsea football club , may owe the Treasury up to £ 1 billion in unpaid corporation tax , penalty and interest . that be from corporate structure with a value of $ 6 billion , set up through an offshore web of hedge fund vehicle primarily register in the british Virgin Islands and Cyprus , in what look like an ultimately botch attempt to reduce tax liability . when a russian oligarch allegedly manipulate british secrecy jurisdiction in order to obscure profit make from UK - base centre of control , it undermine the credibility and fairness of our tax system . we need every british overseas territory to adopt full public beneficial ownership register , so that sham structure such as Abramovich ' s can be trace , challenge and tax . dirty money — the kind that flow beneath the wave of secrecy — corrode the entire tax system , so I call on the Minister never to shy away from the globe - span challenge of tax abuse hide in the nook and cranny of our own backyard . let I turn to my third and final recommendation for the Government , which relate to the often overlook distortion in our system of pension tax relief . this long - stand relief disproportionately benefit high earner , and it have be my settled view for a number of year that we must look again at how it operate . currently , high rate taxpayer enjoy 40 % relief on pension contribution , while the high earner enjoy 45 % relief . basic rate taxpayer nevertheless enjoy a rate of just 20 % . total pension tax relief cost circa £ 40 billion per year to the Treasury , accord to HMRC . of that total , two third be relief for those on income in the 40 % and 45 % income tax bracket , which represent 12 % of the adult population in 2023 - 24 , accord to the IFS . that highlight the inequity here : a system of relief that be tilt to those who need it least , not to incentivise moderate earner put into pension but to support those on the high income . I urge the Minister to consider move to a flat rate model of , say , 30 % , independent of income bracket , so that every saver get equal recognition for secure their own retirement . finally , with my industry expertise in address tax evasion before I come to this place , I would like to address the siren call of a broad wealth tax be make by a number of colleague on the Government Benches and elsewhere in the House . increase in capital gain tax to align they close to income tax be welcome . wealth and work should be tax at similar rate — it be as simple as that — but I have a few word of caution for proponent of wealth taxis . the Wealth Tax Commission itself acknowledge that wealth taxis could incentivise the wealthy to hide asset behind legal vehicle use expensive lawyer and secrecy jurisdiction . HMRC be already chronically short - staff , under - resource and hamstring by complexity . without dismantle the complex web of ultimate beneficial owner , offshore trust , nominee director and secrecy jurisdiction , we be at grave risk of open up a game of whack - a - mole that we would likely see the Government lose to deep - pocketed and well - lawyere high net worth individual who can run circle around HMRC and law enforcement and secrete their asset elsewhere . my firm view be that the Government should instead crack down on tax evasion , simplify the tax code , streamline exist relief and bring capital gain tax level close to income tax . the Centre for the Analysis of Taxation estimate that close alignment of capital gain and income taxis alone could raise some £ 14 billion for the Exchequer . as a country , we face enormous challenge : an age population , creak infrastructure , rise global instability and the urgency of the net zero transition . we know that public service be under strain . we need to raise fund in a way that be both fair and that promote the growth we need to get our country back on its foot after 14 year of Tory decline . let we be clear : taxation be not merely a tool for revenue but the lifeblood of our social contract , which be why we desperately need a responsible and workable tax system , to ensure that education be a right , not a privilege , that healthcare be free at the point of use and that the most vulnerable in our society be protect . the first line of the Tories ' motion get to the word " manifesto " , and I accept their premise that that be what this be about — it be about the commitment " not to increase taxis on work people , and not to increase National Insurance or the basic , high or additional rate of Income Tax " . I do not think that be a tall order . the next item on the list , however , be vat . never mind the headline rate , the concern now , from comment inside the Government , be about what will be drag into vat or have its reduce rate increase . there be no clarity on that from the Government , much less any reference to it in their manifesto from which Parliament , and taxpayer across these island , can take any comfort or otherwise . the motion " call on the Government to reaffirm the statement make by the Chancellor of the Exchequer … that … personal tax threshold will be uprate " in the manner that they say . that be a fair point . fiscal drag be an iniquitous thing to inflict on people . it eat into pay rise and erode people ' s incentive to get on and progress , and there be a real concern , give the fiscal misadventure — it seem to be one farce after another with this Government , and one u - turn after another . they talk about introduce stability into the fiscal dynamic . well I be hold my breath wait for that to happen , but I think I be make a mistake in that pursuit . bad of all — well , it be not bad of all , but it be really bad — be the change to agricultural property relief , which be also not in the Government ' s manifesto , and I sincerely urge the Minister to pause and review those change . as other have articulate , that measure be clearly something that Treasury official put in front of every new Chancellor , and every new Chancellor to date have have the wit to say , " well , I ' m not do that , " — expect for this Chancellor , who be lack in wit and much else to recommend she . she say , " Ooh , I ' ll just go ahead and do that , " completely fail to understand the agricultural economy as it exist in these island . my constituency of Angus and Perthshire Glens be the garden of Scotland and the high productive agricultural land in Scotland . an ecosystem exist around that farm enterprise , of recruitment , training , plant sale , feed stock , market , fuel sale — it all exist , and it revolve like satellite around the farm business . those farmer be now say , " why would I invest ? what on earth would I invest for ? why be I invest my hard - earn capital into increase technology and lower the cost of production , so that I can get more competitive food on to the shelf of supermarket and help with the cost of living , which this Government be incapable of do anything about , mean that my asset value go up , and so that when I die and my asset transfer , my tax bill go up ? " the hon . Gentleman be give a powerful speech on this subject . I be at the Great Yorkshire Show last week , and there we have not only livestock and farmer , but the whole supply chain around that . the only conversation there be exactly as the hon . Gentleman describe , of a whole industry bring low because of this misconceived measure . he talk about chancellor be present with thing . the caravan tax be present to the Chancellor in 2012 , and it take Government Back Benchers to persuade those on the Front Bench to change path . I hope Labour Members might do the same with the farm tax . that be a welcome and comprehensive round - up of some of the broad issue on this , but it speak to the fiscal innumeracy that say , " there be no cost to any of this ; we can just help ourselves to that and it win ' t have any impact . " as the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) point out , if we speak to any rural plant sale or dealership , and they will say that sale have go off a cliff , along with the vat , employment , income tax , and national insurance that go with they . that speak to a Treasury and a Chancellor who have a pass understanding of the price of everything but could not identify value in a line - up . the motion go on to talk about pension . this be difficult , because I do not believe for one minute that we should pull pensioner whose income be only the state pension into tax . neither do I believe that by dint of be a pensioner someone should get tax relief on the same income that somebody who earn that income will not get tax relief on . the Government be in a difficult position on this , and that be of their own making . unless and until they guarantee to uprate the rate and protect pensioner from fiscal drag , there be little point in make a great big song and dance about the triple lock , if what that do be pull pensioner into taxation . where I diverge from the mover of the motion — Shame ! it be go so well . yes , it have to come , and I be relieved that there be a cleavage . where I diverge with they be on a wealth tax . I see that we be in a state — the UK be not a country — where poverty level among our child be rise in every country in the UK except Scotland . in Scotland , it cost we £ 150 million a year — it will be £ 200 million by the end of the decade — to mitigate Westminster ' s mismanagement of child poverty . we can not say that it be somehow punitive for people with asset of more than £ 10 million to attract an annual , modest rate on those asset . that be reflective of the high tax burden that ordinary people have pay since the second world war — incidentally , I say to conservative colleague that that be the case before the election . the Labour party have just knock that into the stratosphere with its misadventure . there have be no talk anywhere in this Chamber today about Brexit . I remember the Prime Minister — what be she call ? Theresa May . she be ask repeatedly , " what do Brexit mean ? " she say , " Brexit mean Brexit , " which be as nebulous as it sound . in 2025 , we now know what Brexit mean . it mean endure child poverty and flatlining growth , no matter who be in charge of the Treasury in the United Kingdom . it mean a common purpose between Labour and the Conservatives to have a neurotic policy on immigration . it mean pale imitation to substitute for EU programme , such as substitute Erasmus with the pointless ture scheme , or EU structural funding and other funding with " level up . " it mean a permanent drag on business . the far we get from covid , the more we see that the fundamental that be wrong with this economy be due to Brexit . the Minister , in his sum up , will doubtless say — order . I call John Slinger . this be all rather desperate from the conservative party . I have think that pantomime season be in the winter , but clearly it be not . I will defend the decision take by this Government to help work people , grow the economy and fix the mess we inherit from the previous Government , and we be do so with fair tax at the core . I use the term " Government " regard the last Administration loosely , because they do not believe in government . they run the tank dry . they be run the factory without maintain the equipment ; they just make last - minute repair , know that thing would break down again , and they do . an astonishing 234 school be find to contain RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and be almost disintegrate before our eye ; our Army reach its small size since the napoleonic war ; prison reach capacity ; and the Government do very little or nothing . the police see 20 , 000 officer cut , and that be reverse only at the last point . that be what the last Government be : crumble and shambolic . they preside over a country whose public service be on their knee and whose people have not see their prospect get well for many year . so woeful be their record that they vacate even the territory that they use to occupy — they become the weak - on - defence Tories , the soft - on - crime Tories and the high - tax Tories . that bring I to my second point . the Conservatives increase the tax burden to its high level since the second world war . it be stable at 33 % from 2010 to 2019 . the 2019 Parliament see the big rise in the tax take in recent history , reach 36 % by 2024 . they then engage in a reckless , unfunded cut to NI , at a time when the economy be still stagnant . they do that deliberately — in my view , it be a poisoned chalice bequeath to this Government . the Conservatives know that Labour ' s commitment not to raise tax on ordinary work people would mean that we could not and would not reverse that reckless tax cut . they know full well that they be leave behind a black hole — Conservative Members may not like to hear it , but they know that . they know that the public service be on their knee , but they do not care ; they only care about their electoral fortune , which do not work out so well . this Labour Government be not afraid of difficult challenge , nor of address those challenge . we actually believe in the concept of government and the responsibility of government — the responsibility to take the difficult decision necessary to fill the unforeseen £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit . we therefore believe that we must raise revenue through taxation , as the Chancellor outline in her Budget last autumn . despite the accusation of the Conservative party , this have not be to the detriment of work people , nor be it the case that we be not ask the wealthy in society to pay more . the opposite be true : we have raise taxis on wealth . private jet passenger now face a 50 % tax increase , VAT have be add to private school fee , and we be raise £ 2 billion more from inheritance tax by close relief use by the wealthy . in his speech , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say that work people be people who go out to work . do farmer go out to work ? of course they go out to work . I believe that my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury answer that point early in the debate , but I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . to add to my list , non - dom status be be largely scrap , capital gain taxis have increase , and stamp duty on second home now start at 5 % . these measure help raise the revenue that be require for massive public investment , benefit work people , not make they bad off . the clue be in the name of our party — labour . we be the party of work . we be also the party of get our country , our economy and our public service work . as such , I ask Opposition Members to look forward to the summer recess with optimism in their heart . do not let the doom - monger and gloom - monger fill their heart , for change have already begin . that change be make possible by my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s Budget and by the spending review . we be fix the NHS — we promise 2 million additional NHS appointment in our first year , and have deliver 4 million . waiting list be down by 260 , 000 , and 1 , 900 more gps have be recruit . we be put more money into people ' s pocket ; we have boost the minimum wage for 3 million worker , and wage grow more in our first 10 month than over a whole 10 year under the previous Administration , testify to the Conservatives ' incompetence and weakness when they be in government . we be fix the foundation of our economy , with four interest rate cut , three trade deal and business confidence at a nine - year high . in the first quarter of this year , UK growth be the high in the G7 . we be tackle childhood poverty , open the first 750 free breakfast club , and expand free school meal . in one day , this Government take action to take 100 , 000 child out of poverty . I now turn to the motion in front of we , which imply a reversal of revenue - raise policy worth over £ 20 billion a year . if Opposition Members oppose the measure we have take , which of the investment I have just mention would they reverse ? be it the free breakfast club ? be it the investment in the NHS , with short waiting list , or be it the extra police ? perhaps more pertinently , give the title of today ' s debate , how would they pay for it ? the Chancellor be not duck difficult decision , and I be confident that if people observe her action , they will see that she and this Labour Government be correct . I call it a " zoom out and dial down " approach . if people zoom out and look down , they will see that the challenge we face as a country — on tax , and on reform of many kind — require we to take action . if they dial down the endless noise of discontent , whip up by social medium and sometimes in the medium and by our political opponent , they will observe a country whose people have — order . I call Bradley Thomas . early this month , the House witness the Government lose control of swathe of their own party . they have have just more than a year in office , and yet the crack could not be clear . in the last year , the country have have to endure u - turn , tax increase and a stagnant economy , and yet the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have be push by their disapprove back Benchers into the inevitable : they will have to break their fiscal rule and manifesto commitment . the OBR have warn of an up to £ 12 billion cost from the water - down welfare reform . Labour promise to stop the chaos and support business through a stable policy environment . that be in its manifesto , yet employer national insurance contribution increase in April — another pledge disregard . we have see the national insurance exemption for indian worker transfer to the UK , which the Indian Government say be a competitive advantage for they . the Leader of the opposition oppose such a deal as Business and Trade Secretary , yet the Government continue to sell out british worker . whose side be this Government on ? deal and decision like that explain why 73 % of voter believe that the Government do not have thing under control . this be the Government who get trade deal that the conservative party fail to do , and save hundred of thousand of job . be you say that you would not have sign those deal ? be you say — order . I be not say anything . please address the Chair . the Government have not see a success . where we have see tariff impose on the economy , the Government have not reduce they . there be a competitive disadvantage as a result of what we be see in the global economic climate . when labour govern , Britain suffer . on the trade deal , it turn out that the deal with the US entirely exclude the british bioethanol industry , until the President of the United States phone up the Prime Minister and he unilaterally give away the entirety of the market , put at risk hundred of job at Vivergo and thousand of job in the supply chain and at Ensus . I thank my right hon . friend — that be another failure by Labour . there be two fundamental macroeconomic problem face this country . one be productivity , and the second be mass immigration , which have displace investment in domestic skill . the Budget do nothing about those , and yet the tax system could be use to address both . order . the right hon . Gentleman be very experienced . he should have be here at the start of the debate if he want to intervene . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) be absolutely spot on . the message to the Government be clear : they can not tax their way to prosperity . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not ; I have be generous with intervention . More than half of business owner nationally be plan to , or have make , further cut to staff number in response to increase employer national insurance contribution . in May , 109 , 000 job be lose in a single month . when we tax job out of existence , the fiscal rule be not merely stretch ; they be shatter . the Chancellor will have either to break her campaign promise and raise taxis , or admit that her rule be break . either way , it mean that work family and work people across the country will pay the price . a fortnight ago , the Government reject call to protect those whose only income be the state pension from pay income tax . this retirement tax will hit 1 million of our low - income pensioner . this be not wealth ; they be modest , often meagre income rely upon to heat home , buy food and see a doctor . one in five single pensioner have no other income beyond the state pension and basic benefit , yet to fill a fiscal hole that they have create , the Government resist the plea of their most vulnerable citizen . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way ; I have be generous in take intervention . as the Chancellor grow increasingly desperate to save the sink ship of her fiscal rule , there be now rumour of a wealth tax to compound the Government ' s contempt for not only work people , but industry leader and innovator . that be not conjecture . only last week , Lord Kinnock say that Labour should be " willing to explore " such disastrous measure . let we be honest : a wealth tax really mean a tax on hard - work people . it mean an attack on pension and on people who have do the right thing and want a sense of fairness , and anyone who have accrue anything will pay the price . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have explain that I will not give way any far . the nation deserve well . it deserve a Government who trust enterprise , rein in the bloated state and live within their mean . I urge the House to support the motion and send a clear message : scrap the job tax , fix the welfare overburden , protect pensioner and give work Britain the honest , sensible conservative growth plan it deserve . we live in a country where wealth be hoard by the few while poverty be the fate of the many . yes , the Government have take some welcome step , address non - dom status and impose vat on private school fee , and I make no apology for be ideological about that . those be step in the right direction , but , as have be show by reform to welfare , they be far from enough to stop cut . the truth be that these policy do not come close to tackle the grotesque level of inequality in our country , nor will they generate the revenue that be need to repair the fail ideology of austerity , privatisation and no small amount of political cowardice in the face of corporate greed . the 2010 be the decade in which the super - rich won . they be hand tax break , be shield by loophole , and watch their wealth explode while wage stagnate and service crumble . millionaire and billionaire flourish . as I say in the early debate this afternoon , the fact that in one of the rich economy in the world million of people in full - time work be rely on food bank to survive be a national disgrace . they go to work , they do their shift , and still they be leave to rely on the charity of stranger to get by . this do not happen by accident . it be the result of deliberate political choice : austerity , privatisation , suppress wage and a tax system rig in favour of the ultra - wealthy . even now , with Labour in power , we be be tell to temper our ambition . how can we do that when there be a 13 - year difference in life expectancy between the rich and the poor in Scotland , and when thousand of child be grow up cold , hungry and face an uncertain future ? however , there be an alternative to relentless cut . there be an alternative to balance the book on the back of the poor . there be an alternative to manage decline as we watch the state become bankrupt both financially and morally . that alternative be genuinely progressive taxation alongside investment in people and community . I find common ground with my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , in that I also support equalise capital gain tax with income tax . currently , many who earn their living through work be tax more than those who profit by sit on their wealth . equalise those rate could raise an additional £ 12 billion a year . my hon . friend and I do , however , disagree about the introduction of an annual wealth tax . since come to this place , I have campaign for the introduction of a 2 % annual wealth tax on those with net asset over £ 10 million . this single policy could raise £ 24 billion a year , and the notion that the wealthy will flee en masse if we ask they to contribute fairly be a tired and dishonest argument . even among the ultra - wealthy , there be a recognition that inequality have spiral out of control . many be willing to contribute more , as be confirm by the work of Tax Justice UK and Patriotic Millionaires , but the Government must have the courage to do it . when we invest in public service , when we lift people up , we build a fair country and a strong economy . child do well at school when they be feed , house and support . worker be more productive when they be not spend every hour worried about how they will make end meet . family be strong when the welfare state work for they , not against they . we have to find new and just way to fund welfare , to fund the green transition , to fund public service and to rebuild the country . the labour movement be not build to tinker around the edge ; it be build to transform , and if this government be serious about real change — the change that we promise — we must be bold than we have be so far . redistribution of wealth and power for the benefit of worker and community , and wide society , should always be the drive mission of any real Labour Government . the damage that this Labour Government have deal to our economy be a real kick in the tooth for all those who vote for they last year — and for those who do not vote for they , but who wish they well and believe their word at the general election . time and again , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and many other on this side of the House , warn that the new Labour Government ' s priority and promise on tax be not to be trust , and that member of the public should take their word with a bucket of salt . the Labour party cry foul , dive to the ground like a premiership footballer scream blue murder , but what have come to pass be far bad than many on this side of the House imagine it would be . for all the Government ' s talk of fix the foundation , I have be pain to watch the suffering , distress and anxiety that they have wilfully choose to inflict on the british people . they have hammer the small business on which people rely for their job , through change to business property relief , agricultural property relief , vat and dual cab taxis , and through the business rate rise and the national insurance tax rise . I can not think of a policy as woefully construct and as disastrously execute as the national insurance tax rise . this Government claim to have be elect on a platform of promote growth , but they be choose to boost growth by blow up business . that be so inexplicable that it call into question the Government ' s ability to govern . the people hit hard by the tax rise be those start out in their first job , who will be hit by the threshold , and part - time worker — often woman — try to get back into the labour market . it be among those group that we see the high rise in unemployment since the Budget . it be because of the Government ' s choice to raise taxis that business be cut back on hire staff . they be also make staff redundant , shelve expansion plan and close their door . I see that in my constituency , where unemployment be up by about a sixth in the 12 month since the general election . it be also because of that choice that inflation be up and growth be down , and because of choice make by the Labour party that this country will continue to miss out on investment opportunity and economic security . that bring I to the people who will feel the impact most acutely . during the pandemic , we celebrate key worker — the care home worker , teacher and hospice worker who go out every day in horrendous condition to do their job in a spirit of service . what kind of Labour Government would willingly choose to punish those who represent the heartbeat of the nation ? only recently , I hear from a woman in my constituency who run a small childcare business , which she keep go during the pandemic . she write to tell I that because of the tax rise , she have have to cut back her assistant ' hour and turn away parent . on the one side , the Government pretend that wage be increase , but on the other , employer be be force to cut hour , so people be no well off . it be happen in every constituency up and down the country , and that be the real cost of this Government ' s choice . the national insurance tax rise mean less money for school and teacher , for hospice and their staff , and for the healthcare worker who be applaud during covid — those operate in the most difficult circumstance . it be a fundamental disgrace that the Labour Government , who be always so keen to paint themselves as the kinder , more cuddly , and more friendly party , have make the catastrophic choice to balance the book and fix their failure on the back of essential worker and volunteer . the Government be raise taxis on hospice , which they be suppose to stand up for . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I give way to the hon . gentleman on raise taxis on hospice . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his defence of teacher . I be sure that he welcome the pay rise for teacher of 5 % last year and 4 . 4 % this year , fund by the Budget . as the hon . Gentleman will know , that rise be not fully fund by the Budget , because the national insurance cost for school have not be fully cover by the Budget . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman may shake his head , but he should look at the statistic . school in my constituency and his will cut support staff and teaching assistant as a result of the black hole that his Government have create for their worker . it be particularly pernicious that the Government be raise taxis on hospice . I visit St Luke ' s hospice in my constituency at the weekend . it be have to raise hundred of thousand of pound a year more — money that would be go towards care for the most vulnerable at the end of their life — to pay for a tax rise that Labour Members will today vote to maintain , while Conservative member say that it should be remove . my hon . friend and I will always raise these issue , as we have the issue for farmer and our food security , or the mind - boggle plan to drive away wealth creator to fill up the Treasury ' s coffer , and we will continue to do that in opposition . we be ask the Government to listen to we , because we want the Government to change course and do the right thing . bizarrely , we do not actually want the Government to drive the country off the edge of a cliff . in the spirit of listening , I would be very grateful to know which of our investment in the public sector the right hon . Gentleman would cut . the Chagos deal come to mind , which the Government seem so keen on : handing over british taxpayer ' money for something we already own . we would not have make the same decision that this Government have make . we make it very clear in government that we would not have hand out pay rise to train driver without the need for reform , or to the junior doctor , who have come back yet again with another double - digit pay demand . the hon . Gentleman need to think about those thing . he can say , " what would you have do ? " but we actually say that we would not do those thing before they happen , so actually we be the one who have be financially responsible . he be the one hand money away to Mauritius , so that it can cut its income tax , while the Government Front Benchers seem a bit wary of answer the question of whether they will have to raise taxis later this year . we Opposition Members can guarantee that they will . I call on the Government to do what be right and look again to their manifesto . the Government should choose to back enterprise , reward work , not punish those who help out in hospice , create growth and opportunity in every corner of our country , and back other who do so , instead of tax everyone and everything they possibly can . otherwise , I fear that this Labour Government will face the same fate as all other majority Labour government that have ever exist , and leave unemployment high than when they enter office . that be not exactly the Labour party that people vote for in my constituency or across the country . the motion before we show the difference in value between the two side of this House . the Conservatives ’ motion speak of wealth creator , but specifically say that only a few of we create wealth . on the Labour Benches , we believe that every single worker create wealth in this country . we have see the consequence of 14 year of their value in action : fall living standard , high waiting list , high energy bill and a weak nation . our value , as we see under the previous Labour Government , leave we with a strong , wealthy and prosperous nation , in which we tax the wealthy to invest in the service that we all rely on . we leave a more prosperous and strong nation last time , and that be what we be build this time . we have see the damage of the past 14 year , as express in the motion . we have see what the Conservatives ’ value mean in practice . they believe that if a few do well , and there be a few tax cut for those at the top , our country would be wealthy . that start in 2013 , and continue with Truss . in reality , at the end of that 14 year , no one do well . we have the long squeeze on wage since Napoleon threaten our shore . we be the only high - income nation to see sickness rise after the pandemic , have the high energy bill in Europe , and be the worst - connect country in western Europe . that be the Conservatives ' record . I believe the right hon . Gentleman want to make an intervention . the hon . Gentleman say that the last Labour Government leave the country in a fantastic state . as I have mention before , they leave behind a massive deficit and unemployment higher than when they take office . do he not understand that a deficit of over 10 % of GDP be an horrific legacy to leave in peacetime ? also , unemployment be high be a betrayal of the people the Labour party be mean to stand up for . the global financial crisis affect every single nation across the world . I do not deny , by the way , how difficult thing be in 2010 , but we also leave the conservative an economy that be grow , record low waiting list , and investment in our nation and a plan to insulate our home . because they do not follow through on our plan , we have the bad insulated home in western Europe , and some of the high energy bill to go with that . yes , we leave in a difficult moment , but we leave the Conservatives with a strong foundation for go forward . the Conservatives leave we poor , sicker and slow , thank to their their record on tax . in the bad cost of live crisis in a century , they attempt to cut taxis for the wealthy . everybody on the Labour Benches think Truss be mad ; I really do not know what Opposition member believe anymore . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would not want to mislead the House , so he will recognise that in 2010 , few than 12 % of home in this country be properly insulate with an energy performance certificate rate C or above ; when we hand over power last year , that figure be over 60 % . he can look up those number , and I ask he to never misrepresent that record in this House , because that be the reality . we see it in the insulation build - out ; David Cameron , as he put it , cut the green crap . insulation rate be rise when we leave office , but they be cut throughout the 2010 ; as a nation , we have not have that insulation . that be why we bring in the warm home plan and be fund it with £ 13 billion . million more home will be insulate under this Government , bring down energy bill by hundred of pound . those plan for insulation be fund by the tax rise that the Conservatives oppose . time and again , we ask they what they would like less investment in , and time and again , no answer be give . we on the Government Benches be try to build a country accord to our value — a country where each of we be do well , be do well , be well educate , be healthy and find it easy to get around . those be the building block of our nation ' s wealth . to build that wealth take investment , which must be fund , and those who benefit most from our nation ' s productivity should be ask to contribute more . that be exactly what this Government be ensure . do the hon . Gentleman recognise that if people be to contribute , the fundamental bedrock be have a job , and that the job tax be cause mass unemployment and business closure ? Employment be rise , and have rise since the general election . [ interruption . ] the reason why unemployment be rise be that more people be seek to enter the labour force ; people be less inactive than before , because we be get waiting list down . I would rather people be look for a job than stay out of the labour force entirely , as the Opposition would have it . we want to build the kind of country where people be able to work . we increase employer ' national insurance contribution in the Budget while protect the small business . we end the non - dom tax break , to make sure that the ultra - rich could not escape taxis by use a loophole , and increase taxis on private jet . we be get more of the energy giant ' unearned profit into the public purse to invest in the thing that we all need . we know the Conservatives will complain constantly about the thing we be raise money for , but they will never say what they would cut . we see what happen over the past 14 year ; we see the weak nation they leave in their wake . the Government be invest to change that for good . after the past 14 year , we be leave a weak and more divided nation — a nation in which each of we produce less , and look inward as we have find it hard to pay the bill . that be exactly what the Government be fix , and what we be invest in . I be proud of this Government . I be proud of this country . Most of all , I be proud of the country we will build , in which each of we do well , and we recognise that our common strength be find in our common prosperity . a few month ago , I meet a former civil servant . he tell I that when he be work in government in the run - up to the ' 97 election , Ed Balls would come into the Department and say , " look , this be what our manifesto say , but here be the three - page memo on what we be actually go to do in government . " in fairness to that Government , they achieve quite a lot . in their first two year , of course , they stick rigidly to the conservative spending plan , and Tony Blair ' s economic adviser , Derek Scott , say that they have a golden economic legacy . I have listen very carefully this afternoon to the speech make by Government Members . of course , I can acknowledge where we be , in term of the economy , and the fact that the country want change ; I recognise that . Government Members , however , have fail completely to acknowledge the scale of the once - in - 100 - year covid experience , what that do to our public finance , and the challenge it give we in the Treasury — the tough decision we have to make , and the inevitable scarring to the economy . will the hon . member give way ? I shall just finish my point and then I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . the typical refrain be then to say , " what about Liz Truss ? " I be not a member of Liz Truss ' s Government , but I be sure that my colleague who be do the very good that they could . she be in office for seven week . I acknowledge that , politically , it be catastrophic for my party , and there be lot of lesson on which we will have time to reflect , but the failure to acknowledge properly the dominant reason for lose that last election , which be relate to the scarring of what happen with covid and the fundamental challenge , do not do credit to this House . I shall give way to the hon . Gentleman if he still want to intervene , presumably on Liz Truss . I thank the right hon . member for give way . we sit on the Treasury Committee together and I find he to be an incredibly kind and brilliant Member of Parliament . he have be very kind to I personally as well . on the experience of come out of covid , our contention be not just about Liz Truss , but about the fact that we have the high inflation and the high energy bill . natural gas , which we depend on , set the price 98 % of the time . it be also 50 % to 75 % more expensive than wind and solar , so the lack of investment in clean energy leave we with high inflation and make we poor . I will come on to address the fundamental dynamic of spending and that area in particular , but first I want to draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention back to the subject . will the right hon . member give way ? no , I will a bit of progress now . I will give way to the hon . Gentleman later , even though he do not give way to I early . the Chancellor come to the Treasury Committee in November . she say , " we have now set the envelope for spend for this Parliament , and we will not be come back for more tax increase or , indeed , more borrowing . we now need to live within the mean that we have set ourselves in the Budget and in the allocation of those spending total . " what have happen in a year ? of course , I recognise that event occur , and I have refer to those under the previous Government . they do present challenge , but the Labour party ' s fundamental problem be understand the effect of high burden of tax on wealth creator and their motivation to employ people and to invest in the productive capacity of the economy — more job and more tax revenue from low rate . this government be say that we can do a little bit more on national insurance ; that we can just put a few more burden of regulation ; that the long - term capital investment of £ 190 billion will transform our economy . however , what I hear from business in Salisbury — small or large — be that the motivation to grow a business , to employ more people , and to say that they be determined to do so because there be some reward from that be rapidly diminish . what we hear be speculation about which additional taxis will be impose after the next three month . today , Government Members have suggest equalisation of capital gain tax , a flat rate of pension relief , a wealth tax , or high band of council tax — although they may have be rule out . the overall effect on top of what we have already have be for business to say , " I ' m not go to do this anymore . " we have now have two consecutive month of negative growth . that may well continue , which be bad for everyone . it be bad for the capacity that we have as a country to invest in the transformation that we all seek to deliver on — some thing we will agree on — and it be not sustainable if the Government do not recognise that business will not grow and expand if that tax level rise beyond a certain amount . I thank the right hon . member for give way , particularly as I apparently do not give way to he . I do not realise that it be he who be try to intervene on I , otherwise I would have give way . I recognise what the right hon . Member be say about covid . I think that as a country we have not yet come to the term with the true impact of covid and we will not do so for a long time , because it still feel very near to we . as a new Member of this House , I take the point that we ought to understand the true impact . the concern for I and perhaps for other colleague be that by try to focus only on covid , and not on the economic and fiscal impact of Liz Truss — I know that he be talk about the political impact — we will never learn the lesson of the Liz Truss moment , and we just do not want to lose sight of the lesson that can be learn . absolutely . [ interruption . ] I be tell that I ought not to take any more intervention , but I will say that Liz Truss ' s insight about the imperative for growth be right ; we do need to look for growth . what she do not do be examine the condition to do that in a way that the market could understand , and it have catastrophic effect . we now have a Labour Government , and we now have work people be massively affect by tax change . we have Andrew Bailey , Governor of the Bank of England , say that as a reaction to the national insurance change , business have make change to employment — that mean fire people — and we have Paul Johnson downgrade growth prospect , alongside virtually every other independent analyst . the winter fuel payment be an absolute disgrace . the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief be put on my desk at every fiscal event , but one just have to say no , because they be the wrong thing to do . the political capital that have be lose by the Government and the damage to their reputation for their stewardship of the economy be catastrophic . I say to those on the Labour Benches that we be face some really tough challenge as we approach the next Budget . the choice that this Government need to make on taxis will define their future . what happen last week be the bad possible situation . several time today we have be ask , " what would you do ? " what we would have do and what we would do now be take a root - and - branch look at the welfare system to see what the Government should do . we would focus on the most vulnerable and look after they well . we would recognise that one of the legacy of covid be that the pathway into benefit have go fundamentally wrong and the country can not afford it . unless we grip that major driver of cost for this country , we shall see taxis rise and rise to meet those iron - clothe fiscal rule , and we will be in a spiral of decline . on 3 December 2024 , the Chancellor make a commitment . she tell a conference of business leader that she would not need to raise taxis . it be a foolish claim from a Chancellor out of her depth . she then tax the engine of growth in her Budget — the business and entrepreneur who create job . she send high - earn taxpayer flee from our country in record number . she tax job with her betrayal after say she would not raise national insurance contribution , and that rise have bring charity , small business and entrepreneur to their knee . she have destroy the family farm with her family farm tax . she have tax hard - work family with the vat attack on independent school . have break her promise and make false claim to business , the Chancellor be now come for pensioner . she be come for the people who have work and save , pay their tax and contribute to this country . she be the only Chancellor who claim to be an economist but do not understand the Laffer curve . it be time for the Prime Minister to realise what he have and to act . he have a weak , out - of - her - depth Chancellor who be send our country down a one - way street to a 1970s - level economic failure . a substantial level of political knockabout be inevitable in a debate such as this , but when it degenerate to the Punch and Judy of " it ' s your fault — yes it be ! " and " no , it ' s not ! " it be not really do anything for my constituent who live in the moment of this Government . therefore , the debate should properly have a focus on what the Government be do in respect of our economy . in Northern Ireland , we have feel , and continue to feel , the brunt of many of those measure , some of which , such as the inheritance tax on family farm , be cite in the motion . I agree entirely with the analysis of the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) as to the depth and long - term consequence that that be have on family farm . however , I want to focus for a moment on the other side of the inheritance tax imposition : namely , business property relief , because that have not have the same attention but be have an equally detrimental effect on many business . that be particularly so in Northern Ireland , where we have the staggering statistic that 89 % of our business be micro - business — in the UK , the figure be 23 % — which translate into the reality that most of those business be small family business . those small family business , by virtue of what be happen to they with business property relief , instead of plan for growth be now have to plan for death — for inheritance — which be have a suppressive effect on our economy . we must add to that the fact that we in Northern Ireland live subject to the pernicious Irish sea border , with all the cost that that bring . I hear some hon . member lament that we get Brexit . well , I lament the fact that in Northern Ireland we do not get Brexit — we be leave under the EU ' s clutch and control . let I illustrate that with a practical example that have just come to light . as a result in Northern Ireland of our live under EU rule , we live under the general safety regulation , and that mean that a purchaser in Northern Ireland who want to buy a new car from a car salesroom in Northern Ireland will be charge £ 4 , 000 more than his counterpart in Great Britain . why ? it be because the GSR have to be meet . that be but another illustration of how individual and business in Northern Ireland be be oppress by the lack of Brexit and the continuance of EU rule . I have hear talk today about wonderful trade deal . those wonderful trade deal mean that good come from those country into Northern Ireland be treat as come into the EU . therefore , if there be a differential in tariff , they pay the EU tariff . those tariff would not be pay in GB if those good have 0 % tariff , or they might have a 10 % tariff , but if they be be bring from the US or India into Northern Ireland , the EU tariff will be pay . some say , " you can claim it back . " well , if someone be willing to go through the hideous paperwork of a reclaim and they can prove that the good they bring in will never end up across the border in the EU , they can eventually — maybe after a year — get a refund . what do that do for cash flow in any business ? those be the reality from Northern Ireland that the Government be refuse to face up to . they be cause trade diversion , yet the Government lamentably refuse to deal with that . this motion carry considerable merit for I , in that it draw this Government ' s attention to what they promise , and the contrast with what they be deliver be very substantial indeed . the Government might have a huge majority , but it be about govern well and not govern in whatever way take their fancy or the fancy of their Back Benchers . they should do the job , do it right and do it right as far as Northern Ireland be concern . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate . it be worth remind the House of the situation in July last year : we have the fast growth in the G7 ; employment be 4 million high than in 2010 , with up to 33 million people in employment ; inflation be on target , at around 2 % ; and the UK , between 2010 and 2024 , have grow fast than Germany , France , Japan and Italy . that be the legacy of conservative stewardship . I have ask Labour Members to give a more rounded picture , but sadly they almost always refuse to do so . debt to GDP have go up significantly , partly because of the massive deficit that we inherit in 2010 , at more than 10 % of gdp — that be phenomenal and have to be bring down over time — and partly because of covid and Ukraine , when we intervene to pay half of everyone ' s energy bill . that be a more rounded picture . overall , we manage to come out with people help through covid and through the energy crisis , and with remarkably high level of employment . yet just a year later , under this Chancellor ' s watch , that strong foundation have crumble . the Labour party need to recognise that the economy be recover and to let it grow . instead , by come in and be hold by the manifesto commitment not to put up the main taxis on the one hand , and on the other , think that they be be clever and somehow keep to their pledge by impose national insurance rise on business but not individual , that have the most bizarre and perverse effect . the £ 25 billion hit on the economy create by the job tax come down to about £ 16 billion after behaviour change , accord to the OBR . then , after compensation for the public sector , it come down to about £ 11 million . then , people have have to scrabble around for hospice , GPs and so on , which mean the net be probably about £ 10 million , and that be before the depressing impact on the overall economy , mean it almost certainly come to single - figure billion . but guess what the OBR also say : from next year , 76 % of the impact of the £ 25 billion hit come out of ordinary people ' s wage . that be the situation . the Government have impose a tax of £ 19 billion on ordinary people ' s earning in order to generate less than £ 10 billion of tax revenue . that be utterly insane , and I ask Members on the government back Benches to have a look at that , follow it and come back . I would love to hear that those number be wrong , because I would love to hear that we be not do something as suicidal , crazy and damaging as it appear to be . I wish I could drink the Kool - Aid , like the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) . the funniest thing about he — a man for whom I have a great deal of respect and affection — be that , unlike some of his colleague who spout this stuff , he give every impression , which I believe , that he believe it himself . that be what be truly extraordinary . I thank the right hon . gentleman for allow I to intervene . I be certainly not drink Kool - Aid . I do believe what I say , and I believe it firmly . I respect the right hon . Gentleman as a colleague , even though he be from a different party , but there be no Kool - aid for I . I thank the hon . gentleman for that . the economy have contract for two consecutive month , shrink by 0 . 3 % in April and 0 . 1 % in May , in a textbook sign that we be in , or could be head into , recession . employment be down too , with Office for National Statistics datum show that payroll job have fall by more than 100 , 000 in a single month , with around 274 , 000 few job compare with last year and unemployment climb to 4 . 6 % . follow the excellent speech from my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , I would just say that we should look at the big picture . again , I appeal to colleague on the Labour Benches . there be a magnificent victory for Labour last year in the election , with 400 - plus mp elect , and it really be up to Labour member to recognise just how scary a position we be in . we have debt to gdp at about 100 % and we have a world in which the fast growth be to be find in develop state , some of which be quite hostile to we and to our value . the truth be that no rich , powerful country have a divine right to stay that way . Wealth do not just come down from the heaven . even in the 14 year when we be in government , too often in this place we seem to obsess only on how we would spend money . from the moment we get up in the morning to the time we go to bed at night , we would talk about how we would spend the money , but we have to generate it first . it do not matter whether our no . 1 concern be the alleviation of poverty , the defence of the nation , education or the health service — we have to have a strong economy . that be why the Government be right . one of the reason they get that majority may be because they say that their no . 1 mission be economic growth . remember that ? it do not come through in the speech from Labour Members now . their no . 1 mission be economic growth . we should be sweat in Select Committees , in all - party group , on the Floor of this House and in Westminster Hall over how we deliver that economic growth , so that we be not go backwards but be actually grow the economy . we also have to accept something that be go to be tough for Labour Members , most of whom have not have any private sector experience and who tend to believe that the rich be just there to take money off and wealth creator can be endlessly offer haircut and will just put up with it and if they do not , it show some moral flaw on their part . we have to accept that the art of government be to recognise the reality , to align the incentive of actor — in this case in the economy — with the public good we want to see . after a year , there be so many flash red light and warning sign that the Government be not get that right , so they need to be prepared to think again . I be involve after that omnishamble Budget of 2012 , when I be part of help the then Chancellor see his route to a well path forward , and my experience tell I that Labour Members must recognise that the country be potentially in a really serious , parlous position . we have no divine right to be a wealthy , powerful nation . the next four year be important . I hope and expect that there will be a Conservative Government after that , but whatever happen , the next four year be important and I hope that Labour Members will start to give rather more nuanced and thoughtful speech in order to influence the Front Bench . despite promise of economic competence and a bright future at the election , the tax choice that this Government have make have undermine economic growth in Wales . over 99 % of all business in Wales be small and medium sized , and the increase in employer national insurance contribution have hit they incredibly hard . it have raise operating cost , mean that business be less able to weather time of hardship , and it limit their ability to invest and expand . the impact have also be feel in our hospice . yesterday , we receive the devastating news of the temporary closure of the hospice on Ynys M ô n due to financial pressure . this one decision be have a direct impact on our community . one policy that the Government could stop before it be implement be the propose change to agricultural and business property relief , which be set to take effect in April 2026 . have listen to the voice of family farmer and local business , it be clear to I that this policy will cause huge damage . as the Farmers Union of Wales say , if the reform to agricultural property relief remain unchanged , the consequence for farmer , rural community and food production in Wales could be devastating and irreversible . Plaid Cymru have be clear that there should be a Wales - specific impact assessment before this policy be pursue far , give the importance of agricultural and small business to our economy and community . instead of damage policy such as raise national insurance and cut agricultural and business property relief , we should be make the tax system fairer . we must follow the principle that those with the broad shoulder should carry the large burden . instead of tax small business and try to plunder benefit , the Government should look at a wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million to raise the billion in revenue that be need to support the public finance . taxis be a political choice . Plaid Cymru would make choice that be on the side of community in Wales . this Labour Government have begin a full - scale assault on the british economy . in just one year they have preside over a shamble that have punish worker , hammer business and betray every promise they make on tax to my constituent in Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village . let we look at the fact . national insurance be up , with a 1 . 2 % rise that the IFS confirm will fall largely on work people . agricultural property relief have be slash , which the National Farmers Union warn threaten family farm and food security . in my constituency , farming be not just a way of life ; it underpin our local economy and community . when I visit Bob Milton of Kilnside farm , he tell I that his business now face lay off staff and sell land just to meet labour ' s new tax burden . that be not policy ; it be economic sabotage . on the change to business property relief , a small business owner now face a tax penalty simply for own their own premise and hope to pass their business on . these change punish success and threaten continuity for family firm across the country . and what be the result of all this ? inflation be stick at 3 . 4 % , well above the Bank of England ' s target of 2 % ; unemployment be up to 4 . 6 % , the high in four year ; borrowing be at £ 17 . 7 billion in May ; and public debt be forecast to hit 96 . 1 % of gdp , with annual debt interest soar to £ 130 billion , by 2029 - 30 . the tax burden be head to an historic high — the high on record , in fact — yet Labour still refuse to rule out new taxis on home , pension or saving . their Chancellor will not even say whether small business owner be work people , and the Prime Minister dodge the question altogether . in Farnham , shop vacancy have rise from 9 % to 10 . 5 % in just one quarter — that is , 16 more shuttered high street shop . in Haslemere and Bordon , employer tell I they be freeze and cut hour . the Shooting Star child ' s hospice that serve my constituency will have to spend £ 90 , 000 in new NIC cost — enough to hire three nurse . that be now go straight to the Treasury . will the hon . member give way ? I will not give way . that be not just wrong ; it be unconscionable . meanwhile , Labour ' s vat raid on education have push more than 13 , 000 pupil out of the independent sector — 10 , 000 more than the Government predict . that mean more pressure on already overstretch state school , more crowded classroom , more exhausted teacher and more child fall behind . labour promise competence . instead , they have deliver confusion , contradiction and chaos . they have break their promise on national insurance , council tax , farm and education , and now they be break Britain ' s economic future . this be not stewardship ; it be self - harm . this be not change ; it be collapse . this be not what the british people vote for , and they deserve well . in my constituency there be dozen of hard - work family business , which be the backbone of our local economy and key to our local identity . these business owner get up early , go to bed late , work weekend , employ hundred of local people and contribute hugely to our local high street , local community and local economy . but this Government seem desperate to squeeze every single penny out of those family business and into the hand of the Chancellor . the rise in employer national insurance put a huge strain on the wage bill , especially when couple with the rise in the minimum wage . that be squeeze every single family business , as well as school and hospice . indeed , last weekend I take part in a local fundraising event — the Oxenhope straw race — which raise money for our local hospice , the Sue Ryder Manorlands hospice in the Worth Valley . every year they do fundraise , but they tell I that instead of the money go to provide end - of - life care , it now go straight to the Treasury through employer national insurance . the sad fact be that the large sum of money go to charity be not provide the support that be need because it be go directly to the Treasury . the business rate relief reduction be impact many hard - work business across Keighley and Ilkley . the inheritance tax challenge be impact many of our farming business and family farming business through slash the 100 % relief on agricultural property relief and business property relief to the £ 1 million threshold . that be where the naivety kick in . when we consider the size of the average farm in England — about 200 acre — and value the farmland , the house , the cottage , the grow crop , the machinery and the livestock , we reach well above the £ 1 million threshold , therefore expose nearly every farming business to an inheritance tax liability . those hard - work business make a return of less than 1 % , if any at all , yet Labour Members say that they must have the weight of responsibility on their shoulder . that be a disgrace . rise — I will take a quick intervention from the hon . member , but I hope that he will justify why those hard - work family farm and business in Keighley and Ilkley , who get up day in , day out , have to shoulder the burden for the mistake that this Labour Government be make . will he answer that point ? I thank the hon . member for give way . he be the third consecutive Conservative Member to stand up and speak , but I have yet to hear what proposal his party want to bring in to raise revenue or what service it want to cut . in my contribution , I make a conscious effort to set out three constructive proposal for the Treasury to consider , and I challenge Conservative member because there be a dearth of — Order . I be sure that the Government Whips be watch the hon . Gentleman and make a note that he will be in line for a job , and I see the Minister quake in his boot at the thought of those bizarre recommendation . the point be that the Labour Government do not realise that all these tax increase be hit the many hard - work business across every constituency represent in this House . shame on the Government for bring they forward . no matter how elaborate the rain dance or how impressive the Government press release , growth will not come , precisely because of the decision that the Chancellor have take . we need a reset ; we need a new direction ; we need to limit spending so that we can cut tax , not consistently raise it . until the Government realise that , I be afraid for all the family businesse up and down the country , which be be penalise time and again by this Labour Government . member across the House will be familiar with the winter of discontent . in 1979 — the year our Chancellor be bear — the Labour Government be at the behest of their union paymaster , and refuse pile up across the country . fast - forward 46 year : we be a year into the Chancellor ' s term of office , and we have before we a summer of anxiety . we have a long and seemingly hot summer ahead of we , with the spectre of impend taxis loom . in a desperate and flawed attempt to paper over the financial chasm of Labour ' s own making , the Government be target the hard - work people they vow to stand for . what have happen in Labour ' s first year in office ? well , my farmer be reel from the raid on their cash - poor industry through change to apr and BPR , national insurance and the withdrawal of the SFI , to name but a few . the Government ask they to diversify and invest in grow their business , while simultaneously tax they for the privilege . the Carrdus school in South Northamptonshire be close as a direct result of the vat raid and the national insurance rise . family who work hard and invest in their child ' s education have be punish . student have be displace , teacher have lose their job , and standard have be hit . hospitality owner have say they can not risk expansion ; they be just about survive as it stand . this year alone , over 1 , 000 pub across the UK have close — 220 since April . beauty salon and hair industry business in my constituency have be call I in because they can not take on any more apprenticeship . if thing continue as they be , there will , the British Hair Consortium say , be no apprentice start in 2027 . what a legacy for this Labour Government . pensioner in my constituency be hit first by the removal of the winter fuel allowance , and they now face the prospect of be tax on their pension for the first time , which be also a terrible disgrace . we have learn a crucial lesson after a year of this government : they be the embodiment of the phrase , " fail to prepare , prepare to fail . " they have have year in opposition to come up with a plan , and they have fail miserably . they keep ask we what we might do . be that because they be seek advice from the more fiscally prudent and wise side of the House ? More ! I can certainly give you more . the Minister and Government Members rarely want to listen , but I raise these point on behalf of my constituent , who have ask I to do this . I implore the government : if they want growth , they must take this summer to think again about how to achieve it , or it will be an autumn of anguish . hard - work family and business owner in Bognor Regis , Littlehampton and our village be feel the squeeze as never before . labour stand on a manifesto promise not to raise taxis for hard - work people , yet at the very first opportunity , in the autumn Budget , they raise employer ' national insurance . this be a tax on job security and job creation . it be a tax on growth and a tax on ambition . the job tax — one of the Chancellor ' s flagship failure — have wreck business confidence . it have make it more expensive to hire worker , stagnate the job market and threaten countless job loss and business closure . it fall on top of the Employment Rights Bill , which signal the return of 1970 - style employment law that will far stifle growth , as well as the family business tax , high business rate and high wage bill . in small coastal town like Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , where over 90 % of local business have few than 10 employee , every cost increase and every job loss be keenly feel . across our constituency , family , small business , hospice such as St Wilfrid ' s and charity at the heart of our community face an impossible position . in their short time in government , Labour have become the party of taxation . the Chancellor have back herself into a corner , and more tax hike be undoubtedly on the horizon . that be why I thank the Leader of the Opposition for table this important motion . work people in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and the business , charity and hospice that employ they need to be defend from this Government ' s tax raid , and that be what I intend to do — to stand up for the people of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton today , tomorrow and throughout this Parliament . I call the shadow Minister . we have have an exciting and heartfelt debate . I commend for their speech my right hon . friend the Members for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) , for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , my hon . friend the Members for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) and for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) and for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) , and the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . we have hear some excellent speech from member speak with passion on behalf of the small business , farmer , worker and pensioner who have be hit by Labour change its mind on taxis and do thing differently from what it say it would do at the election . we have also hear two new phrase today . thank to my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , we now realise we have to challenge the Chancellor base on her " flagship failure " , not her flagship policy . with great passion , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim tell we how Labour ' s tax on family business mean that small business be no long plan for growth ; they be plan for death . the public feel they be mislead by Labour at the general election . they think those on the Labour Front Bench be incompetent . they think the Prime Minister be woefully out of touch and the Chancellor be out of her depth — and why shouldn ' t they ? a Prime Minister who need multiple attempt to define a woman , and multiple attempt to define a work person , do not exactly inspire confidence ; a Chancellor who say that she will not raise taxis on work people , and then hike national insurance , cost work people their job and earning , do not inspire trust . our motion provide the Government with an opportunity to draw a line , recognise the overreach and error in their taxation policy , and give some hope to the maker in our society and those who work hard in our warehouse , office , factory , shop , restaurant , and public service . they could recognise the error in the Treasury ' s assessment of the impact of the family farm tax on those who grow our food , and the trauma cause by the job tax for those who build our business . those be the people who know how to grow our economy , not the numptie on the Front Bench , so why be the Government intent on hold they back ? alas , the Chancellor think that she know good , and despite taxis be at their high rate on record , she be on the hunt for new taxis : wealth tax , capital gain tax , pension tax , council tax , saving tax , tax , tax , tax , tax — it be always the same with a Labour Government . the Government ' s strategy be to tax their way to growth , but I have to tell the Chancellor that that strategy will not work . no economy can tax its business out of existence and create growth . tonight the Chancellor start her new tax campaign with a visit to the City . for the first time it will not be so much a Mansion House speech as a mansion tax assessment . the Chancellor will claim that the Government ' s action have bring about financial stability — well perhaps , but not in this country . the Government ' s Chagos deal have eliminate income tax in Mauritius but give british taxpayer a new £ 30 billion tax bill , and the Government ' s abolition of non - dom status be boost the tax revenue of Portugal and Italy but will mean taxpayer here have to cough up billion a year more to plug the gap as people leave the UK , take their tax payment with they . the truth be that the Chancellor have do the complete opposite of her claim of stability . she be the eye of an instability storm of her own making , where nobody know when her next tax raid will come , and who will get hit the hard — a second summer of doubt and uncertainty cause by this Chancellor , and tolerate by this Prime Minister . labour Back Benchers know it . they know all the time that the Chancellor have lead they up the hill , only to lead they down again : the " once in a Parliament " tax hike , the removal of winter fuel payment , the blunder attempt at welfare cut , and it have only be one year ! Labour Members be limp towards recess — look at they , Mr Deputy Speaker . Napoleon ' s troop be in well humour on their march back from Moscow than some Labour mp be as they make their way back to their constituency , and back to the people to whom they promise so much just one year ago , only to deliver oh so little . no wonder people feel so let down . but let we be fair : some labour Back Benchers be go back with a warm feeling . a reshuffle be come soon , to clear away all the dead wood on the Front Bench — oh , so much dead wood — and some labour Back Benchers have already have the tap on the shoulder . they already know who they be , and they be go home with great expectation of high office — [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] no , no , spare a thought , please , for the many other labour mp who have miss out . they feel that they be give a promise that if they do the right thing they would be look after . now they know that the Government have renege on their promise , and that the change they hope for will not come . for they , I be truly sorry . but there be one consolation : at least now they know how the rest of the country feel . I listen very carefully to the shadow Minister . he have clearly be take theatrical lesson from his colleague the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) . indeed , I have listen to all his colleague during this debate , and frankly they have quite some cheek . they speak from the Opposition Benches , yet they fail to reflect honestly , even once , on why they be on that side of the House . the reason why the Conservatives be in opposition be that they not only run our public service into the ground , but have give up on fiscal responsibility , which be critical for stability , investment and growth . when we win the election last year , it be our task to restore that responsibility and fix the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , which be a legacy of the previous Government ' s waste and delay . [ interruption . ] I know they hate to be remind of it , but that be the truth . that be what we inherit . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say in open the debate , we act on that without delay on take office . at last year ' s Budget , the Chancellor act decisively to stabilise the public finance and lie the foundation for investment in growth after 14 year of Tory decline . rather than shirk responsibility , we take the necessary decision to raise taxis and make the necessary choice to ensure that our NHS , school and other vital public service receive the funding they need to get back on their foot . I thank all the hon . member whom the shadow Minister mention in his sum - up speech , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) , for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . many hon . member speak about the choice that we have have to make as a Government . let I be clear that while many of the decision on tax have be difficult — we recognise that they have have consequence — we take every opportunity to make they as fair as possible . that be why , at last year ' s Budget , we decide to end non - dom tax status and tax break for private school fee . it be also why we increase air passenger duty on private jet , raise stamp duty for those buy second home , extend the oil and gas levy , and choose to raise capital gain and inheritance tax . it be why his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs implement the big package of measure to close the tax gap that this country have ever see . those measure will ensure that everyone , include the wealthy , pay the tax that they owe . those choice have be the right one to restore the public finance and get public service back on their foot , yet the Conservatives , the Lib Dems and Reform — who surprisingly be not here — all vote against our Finance Act 2025 , which start to put our choice into action . they have refuse time and again to support the decision we have take on tax , while refuse to say what funding for public service they would oppose as a result . the choice I have mention and other difficult choice we have make , such as the decision around employer ' national insurance , have be necessary to meet our fiscal rule . let I be clear why those fiscal rule be so important , and why , under this government , they will always be non - negotiable . the fiscal rule introduce by the Chancellor last year be this Government ' s assurance to the market that we will live within our mean and pay our Government debt . they be not only crucial to keep debt payment under control , but enable we to invest in the future of our country . thank to the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule — the stability rule and the investment rule — we have be able to boost capital investment by £ 120 billion , compare with the previous Government ' s plan . that investment will improve transport infrastructure , deliver more social and affordable housing , bring down bill through energy security , unlock further private sector investment and , most importantly , improve the life of work people across Britain by make people well off . without our plan to balance the book and get debt fall , our £ 120 billion of extra investment would not be possible , and taxpayer would see ever more of their money be spend on debt interest payment . we have take the tough but fair and necessary choice to repair our public finance , so that we can rebuild our school , our hospital and our frontline service across the country . as many right hon . and hon . member have say today , if Conservative member disagree with our approach , maybe they can tell we whether they would cut spending on school , hospital or defence , or perhaps they can tell we which taxis they would raise instead . rather than do that , the Conservatives and Reform be compete with each other to inherit the mantle of Liz Truss . they both blindly make unfunded promise on tax — promise that we all know would force up interest payment for family across Britain and cause economic chaos , which would hit work people hard . the british people want security , stability , public service that work again , and more money in their pocket , and only Labour Members and this Labour Government be prepared to take the decision that be necessary to make that happen . question put . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy Ashley Fox Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 165 , Noes 342 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft Electricity Capacity ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Civil Aviation that the draft Transport Act 2000 ( Air Traffic Services ) ( Prescribed Terms ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Buckinghamshire Council , Surrey County Council and Warwickshire County Council ( Housing and Regeneration Functions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft Warm Home Discount ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 19 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Competition that the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Definition of Newspaper ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Competition that the Enterprise Act 2002 ( Amendment of Section 58 Considerations ) Order 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 737 ) , date 26 June 2025 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Sentencing Act 2020 ( amendment of Schedule 21 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Financial Assistance to Industry Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that this House authorise the Secretary of State to undertake , during the period begin with the date of approval of this motion and end on 31 July 2030 , to pay , by way of financial assistance under section 8 of the Industrial Development Act 1982 , grant to business as part of his Majesty ' s Government ' s project to support zero - emission vehicle manufacturing in the UK and the UK ' s automotive supply chain , include to support the creation of job , private investment into the UK , the development of the automotive industry and emission reduction , up to an overall limit of £ 1 billion , and to pay during or after that period the grant that be undertake to be pay . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Petition - Accessibility at High Brooms Station I rise to present this petition regard accessibility at High Brooms station . this be furth to an online petition on the same matter , which have collect 610 signature . under the previous Government ' s access for all scheme , plan be draw up for High Brooms feature three new lift and a footbridge . now that the current Government have commit extra capital funding for transport , these plan must be implement . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that High Brooms Station receive the funding require to improve accessibility . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Tunbridge Wells in Kent , Declares that an online petition on the matter of improve accessibility at High Brooms Station have generate a lot of interest ; note that under the previous Government ' s ' access for all ' scheme , plan be draw up for High Brooms feature three new lift , a footbridge , and several other critical improvement ; and far declare that now the current Government have commit extra capital funding for transport , these plan must be implement . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that High Brooms Station receive the funding require to improve accessibility . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003092 ] Petition - Rural Post Offices I rise to present this petition about rural post office in Glastonbury and Somerton , which have close at an alarming rate over recent year . a separate similar petition from the owner of Somerton Stores , Mr and Mrs Thievendran , recently garner 800 signature within two week , highlight the overwhelming support for a new post office in Somerton . however , prohibitive cost have prevent this so far . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to safeguard the future of post office in rural area . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Glastonbury and Somerton , declare that rural post office be under threat ; far declare that the loss of Somerton ' s dedicated post office in 2022 , combine with the loss of a post office in Butleigh , Charlton Adam and Charlton Mackerell have be devastating for the local community ; far note the recent separate petition from the owner of Somerton store , which garner over 800 signature within two week highlight the overwhelming support for a new post office ; far recognise the immense benefit that post office and postmaster have on rural community ; far acknowledge the prohibitive cost many potential postmaster face when attempt to open a post office ; far welcome the forthcoming green paper but believe the Post Office must work with rural community to ensure a sustainable future for all . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to safeguard the future of post office in rural area . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003093 ] Local Justice Area Reform Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) from March to June this year , the Ministry of Justice hold a public consultation on propose reform of local justice area . the consultation seek response on a range of propose structural change set to affect magistrate across England and Wales . among those propose change be the merging of three magistrate bench into a single north Wales bench to serve six local authority cover an area total 2 , 383 square mile . as the Member of Parliament for a significant portion of the north - west Wales magistrate bench area , this plan be of particular concern to I , and I be grateful for the opportunity to debate it today . the local justice system in the north of Wales currently comprise three magistrate bench — north - east Wales , which serve Wrexham and Sir y Fflint ; north - central Wales , represent Conwy and Sir Ddinbych ; and north - west Wales , cover Gwynedd and Ynys M ô n . the north - west Wales bench be base at the Caernarfon justice centre in the large town in my constituency . magistrate be familiar with this court , and with make the journey to that location to undertake their duty . under Ministry of Justice plan , however , magistrate will be expect to sit at other court outside their so - call home court between 20 % and 40 % of their time . in some area and in more urban constituency , that may not result in significantly increase journey time and distance , but that will indubitably not be the case for individual in the north - west of Wales . for example , if a magistrate live in Pen Ll ŷ n , a journey to the Caernarfon magistrate court would incur a drive of about 40 minute . if the same magistrate be call to the next near court in Llandudno as part of the 20 % to 40 % requirement , their journey time would nearly double to an hour and 15 minute , and if they be call to the north - eastern court in Mold or Wrexham , the journey time would be one hour and 40 minute or two hour , respectively — and I must say that that be on a good day . I commend the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd — I hope that be somewhere near the Welsh , but with an Ulster Scots accent — for bring forward this debate and I congratulate she on it . I speak to she beforehand just to ascertain the direction of travel . do she agree that magistrate must know their community and the characteristic of where they come from , so that they can well serve justice for the victim ? in other word , the well they know where they come from , the well they know the people they serve , and then they can do their job . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . of course , this be what we talk about : the nature of justice serve those community . it need to know the people within those community and to reflect their characteristic to well serve the victim , defendant , advocate and witness in the process by which justice be see to be do . the long journey I mention will inevitably create difficulty . we must remember that magistrate in this instance be volunteer . many have other responsibility , such as childcare and the care of elderly relative . some will also be in work — in other employment . it be foresee that the change be very likely to result in resignation , so my first question be this : have an impact assessment be make of the potential loss of experienced magistrate , the need to recruit and train new magistrate , and whether certain group of people will be worse affect by change in travel time ? cost be another factor . if an individual magistrate currently sit only in Caernarfon court , but be now direct to spend a minimum requirement of 20 % at Llandudno , the annual travel expense claim be likely to double . if they be allocate , as be theoretically possible , 40 % of their time in the Mold - Yr Wyddgrug court , their annual travel claim would be likely to increase by 600 % . will the Minister confirm whether an assessment have be carry out into those substantially increase cost and the effect on value for public money ? I want to turn now to the impact on Welsh language service . while the present three local justice area be easily group under the title of north Wales , it must be recognise that the community they serve be not uniform . indeed , the difference be most apparent in their use of Welsh . the Act of Union 1536 decreed that only English could be use in court in Wales . that be repeal by the Welsh Courts Act 1942 , the first piece of legislation to recognise the right to use the language . of course , legislation have move on considerably since then . the north - west Wales bench serve the two local authority area with the highest estimate percentage of Welsh speaker , Gwynedd and Ynys M ô n , where the Welsh language be in daily use as a community , family and administrative language . the magistrate court will routinely hear defendant , victim , witness and advocate draw from those community and from the town of Caernarfon itself , where 85 % of the population speak Welsh . that be just not true for the other two area in the propose grouping . that be make clear in the percentage of Welsh - speak magistrate across the current local justice area at present : 55 % speak Welsh in the north - west Wales area , 16 % in the central north area and only 8 % in the north - east . we must remember that the purpose of local justice be exactly that : for member of a particular community to administer justice in and on behalf of that community . that mean , of course , reflect that local community . for the north - west Wales bench , this have result in the Caernarfon magistrate court routinely operate in Welsh . indeed , the Caernarfon justice centre be the home of his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service ' s Welsh language unit . there be considerable concern that the hard - fight - for offer of a bilingual service in English and Welsh for all court user will be ill - serve by the UK Government ' s proposal and that prospective Welsh - speak magistrate will think twice before apply for role , thus far reduce the number of Welsh - speak magistrate serve community across the whole of north Wales . that issue be immediately raise by senior magistrate on the north - west Wales bench . they ask why a full assessment have not be make of the impact of the recommendation on the use of the language and the availability of Welsh language service . an addition be then make , I understand , to the equality statement , outline a potential impact on magistrate ' use of the Welsh language , phrase as " protect characteristic " . but frame an assessment in that way fail to consider the potential impact on the right of victim , witness , defendant and service user , and fail to engage with the duty enshrine in the Welsh Language Act 1993 . I be grateful to understand from the Minister , in her response to my letter on this subject , that she be " mindful of commitment " under the MOJ ' s Welsh language scheme , note that this include responsibility to " assess the linguistic consequence of policy affect service provide to the people in Wales " and " to undertake a Welsh Language Impact Test during consultation " . while we wait to see how those responsibility play out , it be clear that magistrate in the north - west of Wales do not agree that an adequate assessment of the cultural and linguistic impact of these change have yet be undertake . in fact , magistrate have go so far as to tell I that they believe the MOJ have treat Wales and the people of Wales with contempt . they be not alone in their concern , as the Welsh Language Commissioner have make clear . after receive initial correspondence from the MOJ , the Welsh Language Commissioner ' s office tell magistrate that " the information and response provide raise more question about how the Welsh language be consider within the consultation , especially the allege failure to consider the implication of move Welsh Magistrates from Caernarfon to other court across … Wales " — that be a translation . the commissioner ' s correspondence add that they doubt whether the impact of the proposal on court user have be identify , particularly for those currently serve by the north - west Wales bench . I be aware that the Welsh Language Commissioner have contact the Minister in relation to their concern , and I call on the Minister today to respond in full to the commissioner as soon as be practicable . in her response to my letter , the Minister note that the MOJ produce a " full translation of the consultation document consider its relevance to Welsh magistrate , court staff and court user . " the translation of such document by public body be , in all honesty , the bare minimum — it be actually a requirement under Welsh language standard — and , in all honesty , that be not the point here . it be concern that so little attention have be give to the effect of UK Government reform on the Welsh language , especially give the Labour Welsh Government ' s goal of 1 million Welsh speaker by 2050 . of course , this be not new . as a result of the closure of rural court by the previous Conservative Government since 2010 , the proportion of bilingual magistrate — who of course be able to work in Welsh and English ; it be always worth spell that out — serve Gwynedd and M ô n have fall from around 80 % to just over 50 % ; as I mention early , it be at 55 % . there be serious concern that this reform in the north of Wales will far diminish the percentage and number of magistrate who will routinely be able to offer a service in both Welsh and English , restrict what be the right in law as regard language for court user . it beg the question of how effective justice can be if a person be deny the right to justice in the language in which they express themselves well — the way they express their emotion and feeling . of course , it be not only that ; this language be one of the two official language of the country . in the case of Caernarfon , and very much in the case of the great part of Gwynedd and M ô n , this be the first language of the majority of people . my third question to the Minister be : when will there be a proper assessment into the impact of the use of Welsh in court under the propose change ? after all , let we remember that when Dic Penderyn be sentence to death in 1831 for his part in the Merthyr rise , he be try in English , but he say from the scaffold , " O Arglwydd , dyma gamwedd , " or , " oh Lord , this be injustice . " the proposal follow what have already be considerable reform in the field of local justice . local justice area be last reorganise as recently as 2016 . as I have mention , numerous court across Wales have be close since 2010 , include those in Pwllheli , Llangefni , Dolgellau and Holyhead , with the operation centralise in Caernarfon . magistrate have endure more than a decade of continuous change . let we remember who they be : volunteer who dedicate their time to help provide justice in their local community — that be why they have come forward . north - west Wales magistrate tell I that they be regularly praise for their performance . they say they have not be provide with any evidence as to why the propose change to merge bench in the north of Wales be necessary . I suspect the MOJ may be consider follow the model of North Wales Police , which be a regional police force . however , I hasten to point out that the force area operate community police across three sub - region — western , central and eastern — which reflect exactly the three bench as thing stand in north Wales . the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board also serve the north Wales region in its entirety , but the pressure place on it in endeavour to meet the need of its widely vary community be recognise as contribute in part to its being in and out of special measure in seven of the past 10 year . I have a couple more question . will the Minister therefore commit to ensure that the local justice reform proposal will recognise that justice be well serve by magistrate root in their community , and , uniquely to Wales , able to work in both national language ? will she also commit to redouble effort to recruit bilingual magistrate across Wales , so that bench can be fully representative of the community they serve ? to conclude , the Minister tell I last week that one of the genius of the magistrate court be the local link , and the fact that it deliver local justice . I agree with she entirely , which be why I secure this debate . I close by urge the Minister and her Department to consider the point that I have raise on behalf of magistrate in north - west Wales , and ask she please to respond to the question that I have pose during this speech . Diolch yn fawr iawn . let I begin by congratulate the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) — that be my good attempt at Welsh pronunciation ; I hope I do not vandalise it — on secure this important debate on the reform of local justice area . I agree with she that the contribution of magistrate right across the country , but in particular in north Wales , deserve great recognition . in particular , the north Welsh magistracy be perform well , and I pay tribute to all those who make that possible . this debate be a timely opportunity to clarify the Government ' s intention to reflect on our recent consultation and to address the concern raise , particularly those from Wales . I shall begin by set out some context surround the local justice area and the case for reform . local justice area be first introduce by the previous Labour Government as part of the Courts Act 2003 . they replace petty sessional division and be design to define the geographical boundary for magistrate court administration . however , the landscape of justice delivery have change significantly over the past 20 year or so . the hard legal boundary of local justice area create inflexibility in the magistrate court system , lead to delay and inefficiency . by abolish local justice area and implement a non - legislative replacement structure , we aim to improve flexibility in the system , reduce bureaucracy and allow for more freedom in the deployment of magistrate . as the House will be aware , the Government and the judiciary launch a joint consultation early this year on what the replacement system for local justice area should look like . I want to be absolutely clear that that consultation be inform by two key principle : first , a commitment to local justice , of which the right hon . member speak ; and secondly , a commitment to enhance flexibility for a modern magistracy . I be pleased to announce that we have receive more than 1 , 400 response from magistrate and a range of stakeholder , include legal professional , local authority and member of the public . I be encourage to see the strong level of engagement with the proposal , and the feedback that we have receive will shape the final outcome of the consultation . I want to stress that we be carefully consider all the response before move forward — we do not approach this with a closed mind . this be genuine consultation and the feedback that we have receive through it will be vital in shape the reform . although local justice area as they be now — a legal administrative boundary set out in legislation — will be abolish , this do not mean an end to local justice . Localism be at the heart of the magistracy . we want to ensure that magistrate continue to feel connected to their local community , and that local citizen continue to feel that their local magistrate serve they . at the core of our principle be a new system of so - call bench , a structure of court group that will be use for the purpose of magistrate ' recruitment , deployment , leadership and training , follow the abolition of local justice area . unlike local justice area , bench would not be define in legislation and would have soft boundary to allow magistrate great flexibility to sit in other court . such court might actually be close to where they currently live , but not accessible due to the current hard , legal boundary , and they might offer magistrate a broad range of case and work than they currently engage in . our consultation propose to align bench broadly with the boundary of criminal justice area , which themselves be base on the boundary of police force area . as the core business of the criminal magistrate court involve prosecution initiate by police force , we believe that , in most case , this be a natural fit . where a give criminal justice area will be too large to create a workable bench — I be very interested to hear the Minister mention police force , because I suspect that that be partly the driver . on community policing , will she recognise that North Wales police have feel the need to separate the area into three — a highly populous area in the east , a middle area , and one in the west , which have a much more scattered population — because that well reflect what the community need ? that be precisely why we have a consultation — to reflect the variation in different part of the country . in most case , the criminal justice area and the area in which a police force operate will be a natural fit for a bench , but that will not necessarily work for everyone . we be take sounding and engage with local stakeholder to make sure that these soft boundary , as it be , reflect local circumstance . as I say , this be such a vital debate , and we hope to reflect local contribution in the final set of proposal . where a give criminal justice area would be too large to create a workable bench , we have suggest a different model that retain current local justice area boundary . for example , create a bench base on the very large geographical area of the Dyfed - Powys criminal justice area in Wales would be impractical . analysis suggest that it would result in excessively long journey time for certain magistrate — a point that the right hon . Member make . we therefore propose retain the current local justice area boundary in that case . on the other hand , where analysis suggest that a criminal justice area could reasonably be use to structure the boundary of a bench , we have propose — it be only a proposal , on which we be consult — merge certain local justice area . that be the provenance of the bench for north Wales and south Wales . to reiterate , the point of the consultation be to seek feedback on the propose model , and gather feedback from magistrate and other stakeholder , such as local leader , about what will or will not work . the propose bench configuration be intend as a starting point for this exercise . we be , if I can put it this way , very much in listen mode . I be aware that magistrate in some bench , include those within the constituency of the right hon . member , have raise concern about the proposal , and as ever , she be articulate in set out the concern of her constituent and the local consideration . I very much appreciate that she write to I in advance of today ' s Adjournment debate outline those concern , so that we could take they on board in the Ministry of Justice . I would like to reassure the right hon . member that her concern and the concern of Welsh magistrate have be and will be hear . while I can not at this juncture confirm the outcome of the consultation — and some of the matter it cover be for the judiciary to determine , not politician — these concern and other express in the response to our consultation will inform our decision on the structure for Welsh magistrate court . I turn to the question of Welsh language impact , which be incredibly important in this context . as the right hon . Member have say , a key concern for Welsh - speak magistrate be the impact of the proposal on the Welsh language . this concern have also be articulate by other member of the Welsh judiciary . at the heart of it be the potential risk that difference in the percentage of Welsh - speak magistrate in the propose bench could limit opportunity for Welsh - speak magistrate or court user to speak Welsh . let I take this opportunity to assure the House that this Government remain firmly committed to the principle of bilingual provision of court service in Wales , and to the equal treatment of Welsh and English in the delivery of justice in these court . under the proposal , all magistrate would have the chance to discuss their sit arrangement with their bench chair . Magistrate ' s sit pattern would be decide on a case - by - case basis , take account of personal circumstance as well as business need . a Welsh - speak magistrate ' s preference would naturally form part of these discussion . it be certainly not our intention to force Welsh - speak magistrate to sit in other location to the extent that it would limit their ability to use Welsh in court . more broadly , the proposal be intend as a codification of current practice . magistrate be expect to undertake most of their sitting at the court close to their home or work location . the overall intention be to minimise as far as possible the extent of practical change to the day - to - day business of magistrate in their local area . give the continuity in sit pattern , and the continued provision of interpreter in Welsh magistrate court , we do not expect the proposal to impact the availability of Welsh language service for court user in Wales . to answer the right hon . member ' s question directly , and to reassure she , a full Welsh language impact assessment will accompany any final proposal . we will carefully consider the response we have receive from Welsh magistrate and other stakeholder to see what the impact will be on Welsh be speak in court , and will put in place any mitigation , should they be necessary . we have commit to publish a full Welsh language impact test alongside the final set of policy decision , and we expect to publish our response later this year . I be aware of the issue of the effect that the propose bench configuration for Wales will have on travel time for magistrate and court user , and concern about increase journey time and add difficulty for those who , for example , rely on public transport . that concern have also be express in some response to proposal in England ; it cut across the board . we be keen to draw on magistrate ' first - hand knowledge of their local area before finalise any of these boundary . the ongoing analysis of consultation response will help we to identify those area — such as in Wales — where a propose bench would be excessively large or result in unreasonably long journey time . as the right hon . Member rightly acknowledge , magistrate volunteer and do a fantastic service . we do not want to put barrier in their way ; this be about enable they to carry out their service and be deploy flexibly . it be certainly not intend to impede the vital work that they do . as for court user , the consultation do not propose any change to case list practice . the abolition of local justice area will , however , make it easy to hear a case in a court close to a user ' s home . we would not therefore expect the new bench or deployment model to result in long journey for user . we be nevertheless continually review any potential impact of the proposal on protect characteristic . should the datum gather from the consultation response uncover any previously unforeseen impact , we will consider revise the proposal to mitigate those . I thank the right hon . member once again for raise this issue with her characteristic eloquence and attention to detail . I also thank those who take part in the consultation process and engage with the proposal . we receive 1 , 400 response , which be testament to just how much people be engage on these issue and how much they value the local justice that our magistrate provide . as with any consultation , the dialogue and feedback we have receive will be crucial in drive positive outcome , and I be grateful to all those who have contribute . we be in listen mode , as I say , and we be commit to create a system that work well for magistrate , court staff and citizen right across England and Wales . question put and agree to . House adjourn .