Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Police Stations what discussion she have have with the Mayor of London on the closure of front counter at police station . it be clear to we that visible policing be essential to restore public confidence in our police , which be why there will be 3 , 000 more neighbourhood police on the beat by April next year under this Labour Government . the Metropolitan police will receive up to £ 3 . 8 billion in 2025 - 26 , a £ 262 million increase in funding through the settlement . may I , as a London Member , begin by pay tribute to the brave police officer from the Met and many other force who be police protest on Saturday , a number of whom be injure in the line of duty as a result of abhorrent attack ? I be sure that the thought and prayer of all Members , in all part of the House , be with they . last week we discover that Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London , have admit that he have know as long ago as November that the Met plan to close a number of police front counter across London , have promise just six month early in his election manifesto that not a single borough would be leave without a police front counter . the decision to close Twickenham ' s counter mean that Richmond upon Thames will be leave without one . do the Minister agree that , give the importance of police counter in maintain trust in and accessibility to our police , this decision need to be reverse ? do she also agree that the Mayor of London have break his promise , and that the Metropolitan police should be fund properly ? may I associate myself with the comment make by the hon . member at the start of her question ? as she would expect , we have be in close contact with the Met throughout the weekend . our thought be with the officer who be injure , some of they seriously , and we must of course ensure that justice be do for they : they run into danger for we every day . it be clear to I that the Mayor of London be make the right decision on police across London . of course member will feel that their particular police station be important , and of course visible policing be important . what our community be say — what my community in Croydon be say to I — be that they want to see police on our street tackle crime , not sit behind desk do the job that unwarranted police officer could be do , and that be why we be put neighbourhood police at the heart of our policy and put those 3 , 000 officer back on our street by April next year . a constituent of mine try to act as a good samaritan by hand in a handbag that they have find in the town centre , but they could not do so because Hemel Hempstead police station ' s front desk have be close under the last government . they be tell that they would have to travel to Hatfield police station , which be half an hour away . do the Minister — I welcome she to her place — agree that the Hemel Hempstead front desk should be reopen so that the police can be even more accessible to our constituent ? order . I be not sure that the Minister have responsibility for matter such as this . I be of course happy to talk to my hon . friend about the situation in his local community so we can ensure that the police be do all they can to tackle all the crime that be not consider a priority under the last government , from antisocial behaviour to low - level threat . that be extremely important to our community . I call the shadow Minister . let I begin by welcome the new Ministers to their place . the last Conservative Government recruit a record number of police officer , but early this year we discover that despite labour ' s promise of more police , the headcount have already fall by 1 , 316 since it come to office . both the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner have warn that we will lose even more officer . when will the Minister restore police number to the level they be at under the last Conservative Government ? I thank my opposite number for his welcome . let I also use this opportunity to thank the Minister of State , Department for Work and Pensions , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who do a brilliant job as Policing Minister over the past year . under the last couple of year of the Conservative Government , shoplift soar : we see a 70 % increase . street theft rise by 60 % in two year , and the Conservatives ignore antisocial behaviour . violence and abuse against shop worker be at epidemic level , and the yo - yoe of the police number do not help ; the hon . Gentleman may remember that the Conservatives cut they by 20 , 000 . we be prioritise neighbourhood police . we will ensure that the police have the resource that they need , and we will use new technology to ensure that we be tackle crime as much as we can . those 3 , 000 neighbourhood police officer will be in place by next year , and the 13 , 000 police officer that we have pledge in our manifesto will make a real difference to people ' s life . may I gently say that the question be about the Mayor of London and police closure ? we have allow a little bit of leeway . let we see how we go from here and try to stick to the question before we . scientific Procedures : use of Animals what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her Department ' s policy of the approval under the Animals ( Scientific Procedures ) Act 1986 between April and June 2025 of the use of 1 , 656 , 930 animal over the next five year . the Department take its responsibility under the Animals ( Scientific Procedures ) Act extremely seriously . approval for the use of animal in science be give only when no alternative exist and where the scientific benefit justify the potential harm . the Government will soon publish a strategy on how we will work towards phase out the use of animal in science . More than 1 . 6 million animal have be approve for test over the next five year , include through licence for invasive brain research on monkey and for look at different method of kill animal in laboratory . labour ' s manifesto commit to phase out animal testing . can the Minister reassure I that the non - animal method strategy will commit to Herbie ' s law and provide a clear framework for phase out animal experiment within the next decade ? I be grateful to the hon . member . Herbie ' s law be a propose legislative framework to phase out animal experiment , specifically in medical research , in the UK by 2035 . the Government ' s commitment be clear : we will partner with scientist , industry and civil society to work towards a long - term goal of phase out the use of animal in scientific research and testing . I will ensure that he receive a letter from the relevant Minister . I thank the Minister for his answer . it be quite clear that people have have their life save through scientific experiment with animal , and we thank the scientist for that . at the same time , a grow number of people have grave concern , include my constituent and probably the Minister ' s constituent as well . can he assure we that when it come to do animal experiment of any sort , the priority will always be the people who can be save as a result of the experiment , but it will also be the care of the animal ? that be what my people want , and I think it be what everybody want . I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . the Government authorise the use of animal in science under the Animals ( Scientific Procedures ) Act 1986 in order to support critical national objective in public health , scientific innovation and environmental protection . the authorisation provide by the regulator be not a blanket approval , but a tightly regulate process that have rigorous and robust ethical , legal and scientific scrutiny . Channel crossing what step she be take to help prevent migrant from cross the English Channel illegally . under this Government , the National Crime Agency have lead 347 disruption of immigration crime network — its high level on record , and a 40 % increase on the previous year . we be pass legislation to give both the National Crime Agency and law enforcement more power to arrest those suspect of facilitate people smuggle at a much early stage . I be very sorry to see that the hon . Member do not match his rhetoric with real action by vote for those measure when they be before the House . I have it on good authority that the people smuggler in northern Europe be absolutely delighted with Labour ' s new Front - Bench team , and especially with the promotion of the hon . member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) , because they know we will get more of the same from this Labour Government . the boat will keep come , the boat will get big and the people smuggler will make more money . what difference be this Home Secretary go to make that the last Home Secretary could not ? I think the hon . Member have just admit to have a hotline to a bunch of people smuggler . perhaps he would like to contact the National Crime Agency and tell it that he be in touch with a bunch of criminal , so that they can be appropriately deal with . all he and his party have be a bunch of rhetoric and no answer to the problem that the previous Government leave behind . it be this Government who will clean up the mess and secure our border . illegal immigration be , by definition , an international crime . that be why it be so important that we work with our ally , such as France , in target this issue , which affect our community . I welcome the Government ' s " one in , one out " deal with France , which have the potential to be the most game - change step in british migration policy in decade . can the Minister give we an update on how the " one in , one out " deal be go , and have she speak to her counterpart in France in her new role ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that international co - operation be the key to we secure our border here at home and assist our international partner to do the same with theirs . I be already in touch with my french counterpart . that be a landmark agreement , which the Conservatives try to achieve for many year , but they be all word and no action . it be this Government who strike that landmark deal , and we be work with our partner in France to get the first flight off the ground as soon as possible . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her appointment and I wish she every success . it be in the national interest and the national security interest that this issue be tackle , but her Front - Bench colleague and the Prime Minister be absolutely wrong to get rid of a deterrent . notwithstanding all the new policy , all the new Bills , and all the new relabelling and rebadging of organisation , unless there be a deterrent the illegal migrant will continue to cross the channel , as they have do since this government come to power . when be a deterrent go to be put in place , and what will it look like ? I welcome the tone of the first part of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . it be in our collective national interest that we secure our border , and I look forward to work with member from across the House as we get on with that important task . it be important not just to prevent criminality , but to hold our own country together , which be why I have always say I will do whatever it take . the Rwanda agreement , which be what the right hon . Gentleman refer to as a deterrent , be nothing of the sort . from the day that agreement be sign to the day it be cancel , 84 , 000 people cross into this country . that show it be not a deterrent that be ever go to work . I be clear that I will do whatever it take . I be already consider other measure that will deter people from make that crossing in the first place , and I will update the House in due course . immigration be still a big issue for my constituent — they email about it and it come up when I be in the pub — but people ' s frustration be turn to direct action , and Northampton be now fill with flag . do the Home Secretary agree that flag be a symbol of our pride in our country , and they should not be hijack by plastic patriot and those who do not work in our country ' s interest ? let I be very clear : I understand the strength of feeling across community in this country about the use of hotel , in particular — the right to protest be an ancient right in this country , and we will protect it — but it be important that we do not slip into rhetoric that incite violence or hatred towards other community . I love the St George ' s flag and I love the Union Jack . those flag belong to I as much as they do to anybody else , and we must never allow any of our flag to become symbol of division . I call the shadow Minister . lot of people know that under this Government , the number of people arrive illegally have hit a record high . what many do not know be that this Labour Government be repeal the power to scientifically test the age of those arrive and be hide the datum on the number make false claim about their age . why be the Government do away with power that could prevent adult migrant from get into classroom with child , and why be they hide this datum from the british people ? come from one of the Conservative Members who , frankly , do nothing across their period in office and who be responsible for the mess I be have to clear up , I think that be a little bit rich . this government have be absolutely transparent . we will carry on be so , and we will publish all the relevant datum at the appropriate time . I be very clear that nobody who try to game our system will get away with it . we will strengthen our rule , rather than weaken they , which be what we see under the conservative party . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . many of those who come to this country by cross the channel go on to be grant refugee status . early this month , the Government backtrack on their promise to continue with the 56 - day move - on period for those grant refugee status , barely week after a Home Office Minister assure this House that the policy would last until the end of the year . the move - on period extension be work , in that it be give refugee time to secure work and housing while shield local council from sudden surge in homelessness cause by people be force out of asylum accommodation too quickly . halve the move - on period be bad for refugee who want to support themselves , bad for the community support they until they can get on their foot and certainly bad for already stretch council budget . do the Home Secretary agree that it be well to do what work , both for refugee and for community welcome they , and will she look again at reinstate a policy that work , rather than chase headline ? I say to the hon . Lady that we be follow what be work . rather than have an arbitrary time period , we be work with local authority to make sure we have the appropriate move - on period . it be in nobody ' s interest that people remain in hotel for long than be absolutely necessary , and of course this Government will end the use of asylum hotel . neighbourhood police what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . what step she be take to help ensure the delivery of effective community police . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . every day the police make we safe , but the public be rightly concerned that there be crime that blight their community and too often go unpunished . we be focus police on the crime that matter to local community . we have deliver the neighbourhood policing guarantee , include a dedicated name officer in each neighbourhood , guarantee response time and 3 , 000 more officer by April 2026 . the Devon - base Devon and Cornwall police and crime commissioner announce month ago , with great fanfare , that Camborne in my constituency would be a focus for she . there have be very little evidence of that increase focus since . she also say that Redruth would not be a focus because it be not a business improvement district . neighbourhood policing performance in the town of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be inextricably link . will the Home Secretary meet I and cornish colleague to discuss neighbourhood police across Cornwall ? I be very sorry to hear about those issue with the police and crime commissioner in my hon . friend ' s local area . it be important that those concern be listen to . I would be very happy for he to meet the Minister for Policing and Crime , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) . I welcome the action the Government be take to strengthen neighbourhood police in Wolverhampton , with 27 additional role and officer newly allocate or move back into neighbourhood role . fourteen year of cut have leave west midland police with around 700 few officer than in 2010 and a funding formula that short - change our region by £ 40 million every year . will my right hon . friend commit to review the Tories ' funding formula so my constituency can have the same level of neighbourhood policing and security as other part of the country ? as a fellow west midland Member of Parliament , I of course hear my hon . friend ' s concern , but she will understand that , as with previous year , decision on police force funding allocation will be make via the police funding settlement , which be take place later in the year . I commend the Government for their commitment to neighbourhood policing , not least the propose power in the Crime and Policing Bill that will empower officer to stop antisocial and illegal e - scooter riding , which have be a dangerous blight across Stevenage town centre . however , do my right hon . friend not agree that we should be give police the legislation and guidance they need to keep our local neighbourhood safe , rather than arrest individual for post on social medium view that , while consider offensive by some , be nowhere near the bar for incite criminal behaviour ? on the first part of my hon . friend ' s question , he be absolutely right about strengthen neighbourhood police to deal with the concern he raise . that be why we have bring forward new power in the Crime and Policing Bill . I agree that it be important that the line between that which be perfectly legal fair comment , even if offensive , and that which be illegal be maintain as strongly as possible . I have already have conversation with senior police officer on this matter , and I be pleased to see statement from , for example , the chief of the Met police . I will be meet they in more detail to make sure that that line be not cross , so we can maintain confidence in our police . the Prime Minister promise there would be a summer blitz on antisocial behaviour , with more funding and more community police officer promise for our constituency , yet this summer in Cheadle village we have see even more antisocial behaviour in the community . throughout the summer I be contact by resident about crime in the area , include police officer attack , a local school break into and neighbour threaten for simply ask gang not to throw rock at their house . one of my constituent , Adam , tell I it be the bad he have ever see it . why do the summer blitz on antisocial behaviour not include Cheadle ? More than 500 town centre across England and Wales have see the benefit of that summer initiative . I will ask my official question about the hon . Gentleman ' s area in particular , but it be an important model that we have trialle this year . we look forward to build on it as we ensure we have the local response and neighbourhood police to deal with local concern , build confidence so that people can enjoy our town centre as they use to do . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the neighbourhood police guarantee to restore bobby on the beat in our town centre , follow 14 year of conservative cut that have leave our town and village at the mercy of shoplifter and antisocial behaviour . will the Home Secretary outline how Lancashire , and in particular my constituency of Blackpool North and Fleetwood , will benefit from that guarantee ? the neighbourhood policing guarantee be absolutely critical to deal with the issue that my hon . friend raise and to raise confidence more generally . the guarantee will ensure that all area , include her constituency , will have a name , dedicated officer , guarantee patrol and reliable response time , and will give community absolute clarity about local policing priority . how can persistent shoplifter be deter if short sentence be abolish ? the right hon . Gentleman be ask I a question relate to my previous brief , but he will be pleased to know that I expect the new Justice Secretary and Lord Chancellor to set out proposal for deal with prolific shoplifter in particular , base on some of the conversation and exchange he and I have have . I know it be a big problem , but the Government will have a response to tackle the scourge of prolific shoplifting . I be contact by constituent yesterday from the Pound Street mosque and Riverside Community Centre mosque who have hear comment from the Unite the Kingdom rally about Islam not be welcome in this country or in Europe . how can neighbourhood police help to reassure my constituent and the 3 . 9 million practise Muslims in this country that they have the right to practise their faith without fear ? freedom of conscience , religion and belief be a protect freedom in this country ; it be part of the right and responsibility that we have as citizen of this great nation , and nothing should get in the way of that . freedom of speech be also protect in this country . there will always be some crossover between those freedom , but , as I say in answer to a previous question , I be absolutely clear that there be a line between content that be offensive , rude or ill - mannered and incitement , whether to violence or hatred , which be a crime . it be important that we police the line between those type of comment effectively so that everybody in this country can have confidence in our policing system , as well as confidence in exercise their right under the law of our land . last week be Rural Crime Action Week . I recently have an opportunity to join Cambridgeshire constabulary ' s rural crime action team to see the work that it do , despite have to cover a huge county of eight constituency with just 14 officer . those officer have recently be reallocate from be designate operational support unit officer to neighbourhood police officer , thus bolster the number of officer the Government will classify as neighbourhood police and help they to reach the target of 3 , 000 officer . however , those officer be neither new nor dedicated neighbourhood police . can the Home Secretary explain why she be artificially inflate neighbourhood police number by reclassify those in specialist role ? the Government ' s policy position be to ensure that the police resource that we have focus on neighbourhood policing , because we know that visible neighbourhood policing increase the confidence that community have in go about their business and help we to take back our town centre from those who indulge in low - level criminality — which be not low level , because it harm people and their confidence in their own community . that be why we make no secret and be not ashamed of our neighbourhood policing guarantee . very simple question : why be police number come down under a Labour Government ? this government be focus on deliver neighbourhood policing . we be go to have 3 , 000 neighbourhood police officer by April 2026 , with 13 , 000 — as we commit in our manifesto — by the end of the Parliament . ukrainian Nationals : Visa Applications what step her Department be take to support ukrainian national with their visa application . I call the Minister — welcome . this Government remain committed to support Ukraine follow Russia ' s vile , illegal invasion . I acknowledge the warmth and generosity show by so many local community in support Ukrainians in the UK . since the conflict begin , more than 300 , 000 Ukrainians have be offer temporary sanctuary through the dedicated Ukraine scheme . Ukrainians can still apply to the Homes for Ukraine scheme with a UK sponsor and , once here , extend their stay to a total of 3 . 5 year , as recently announce . I start by congratulate the Minister and welcome he to his place . my constituent Lesley have be host and support a ukrainian refugee , Ella , who , after month of delay and difficulty , have thankfully now receive a visa extension . Ella ' s case highlight the wide problem in the system : long wait , radio silence and a lack of communication , cause huge distress for the refugee and their host . can the Minister set out first what be be do to improve the visa application system generally , and secondly whether the Government will consider look again at allow ukrainian refugee who do not want to , or can not , return to Ukraine the pathway and the chance of apply for indefinite leave to remain ? I thank my hon . friend for her congratulation and her hard work in this area . the UK Government have be clear from the outset that the Ukraine scheme be temporary and do not offer a direct route to settlement . the Ukraine permission extension scheme reflect our strong humanitarian commitment while also — this be important — respect Ukraine ' s wish for its citizen to return , when safe , to support national recovery . the long - term position be under active consideration , and further detail will be provide at the early opportunity . crime in City Centres what step her Department be take to help tackle crime in city centre . the United Kingdom boast a fantastic array of city , each of which have a unique character and appeal . in order to thrive , our city centre must be safe . that be why this Government be put police back on the beat and bring in strong power to crack down on shop theft and antisocial behaviour . I be pleased to see Newport city council announce last week £ 300 , 000 for new CCTV in our city centre , and I commend the work of trading standard , whose effort have seize almost £ 2 million of illegal cigarette and vape . while trading standard and the police be work really hard to tackle this issue , the time - limit nature of shop closure order mean that the shop often quickly reopen . what more can the Government do to strengthen power to stop this ? I welcome the action in Newport city ; it be good to hear . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill will strengthen enforcement and crack down on rogue retailer , and a raft of other measure in the Bill will crack down on these pernicious crime . I look forward to talk more with my hon . friend about this . sometimes crime wear a suit , as happen in Brechin in my constituency , where Mackie Motors have equity in their vehicle steal by a french bank base in London . then , through mendacity or incompetence or both , the bank turn off the oxygen for that business of 50 year . I have meet with Home Office and Treasury Ministers to try to get around this . my constituent have be to the Financial Conduct Authority , who tell they to go to the police , who then tell they to go back to the FCA , who then tell they to go to Citizens Advice — you could not make this cluster - fankle up . be it not the case that in the UK today , if a small or medium - sized enterprise be in dispute with a bank , the FCA will demonstrate that it be neither use nor ornament ? I can not comment on the specific detail , as I be not aware of that case , but I be very happy to have a conversation with the hon . member . some sme in my constituency have have similar issue , so I be very happy to take that forward . antisocial Behaviour what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . antisocial behaviour cause untold distress and misery across our community . under the previous Government , the response to this menace be weak and ineffective , and visible neighbourhood policing decline dramatically . this government be put that right by rebuild neighbourhood police and introduce respect order to tackle persistent perpetrator and strong power to seize dangerous and deafen off - road bike . I thank the almost 500 constituent who respond to my summer road safety campaign . one of the top issue raise be the use of antisocial off - road bike . I warmly welcome new measure in the Crime and Policing Bill to allow the police to seize these bike without warn . will my hon . friend also look at the sale of off - road bike to see what can be do to restrict they at source ? I think the number of constituent who respond to my hon . friend ' s survey show that this be really important for our community and something that we have to get a grip of . there have be a worrying increase in such crime . as part of our safe street mission , this Government be crack down on the crime that make people feel unsafe in our community , include snatch , theft , pickpocketing and robbery . our safe street initiative have be run this summer in town centre , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency , I think . we aim to prevent crime and antisocial behaviour , and the sale of off - road bike be at the heart of that . in Wrexham , North Wales police be do very important work to tackle persistent antisocial behaviour and low - level crime , but local people be , quite rightly , seek further reassurance that these issue will continue to be deal with and tackled head on . will the Minister please update the House on how police recruitment and training be progress in north Wales and beyond so that community like mine can feel safe and secure in the place they call home ? as part of our commitment to restore neighbourhood policing , the neighbourhood police programme career pathway develop by the College of Policing be create a structured training pathway to professionalise neighbourhood policing , benefit community across England and Wales , include in Wrexham . in term of recruitment , North Wales police have be allocate just over £ 2 million to support its project neighbourhood police growth over 2025 - 26 , which be make up of 26 additional police officer and 15 police community support officer . in Gloucester , thank to the Government invest £ 1 million in neighbourhood policing and a furth £ 1 million in its safe street initiative , we have see more police on our street this summer , lead to an increase in arrest and seizure of illegal e - bike and vape . some of that funding be to come to an end this autumn . will the Minister please update I on how she will ensure that gloucestershire constabulary build on the great work it have do this summer to make Gloucester a safe place to live and work ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . it be encouraging to see the work go on in his constituency . it be our intention to ensure that the police have the resource they need to do the job we need they to do , whether in hotspot policing , neighbourhood police or tackle anti - social behaviour . we will change legislation here in Parliament to ensure they have the power as well as the resource they need to act locally in the interest of our constituent . local youth provision go hand in hand with a decrease in antisocial behaviour commit by young people , with even something as simple as a ping - pong table in a close shop able to make a difference in a community . will the Minister outline what work she be do with the Department for Education and the Treasury to ensure that we solve this problem once and for all and we do not just move it on and move people around the place ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : if we want to ensure that people be not get into crime , we need to ensure they have activity and thing to do . we be work closely with both the Department for Education and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure we have a programme of activity for our young people that give they thing to do and a purpose in life , include mentoring and support so that they can take the right path . resident of Long Hanborough in my constituency have describe to I a summer of misery characterise by antisocial behaviour in the local playing field . I understand that the local rural police constabulary do not have sufficient vehicle for all its officer to be out at any one time . be the Minister satisfied that Thames Valley police have sufficient resource in its rural community police force to deal with antisocial behaviour in our village ? antisocial behaviour be pernicious wherever it happen . of course , we need to ensure that the police have the right resource . as the Home Secretary say , police allocation decision will be make in the autumn , but I be happy to have a conversation with the hon . member about the particular issue he be face in his constituency to ensure that , when it come to issue such as police car and vehicle , we be make the most of taxpayer ' money and make as many efficiency as we can on that front . in line with the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) about how we good tackle antisocial behaviour among young people , do the Minister agree that it be really important that outdoor education be integrate in the Government ' s youth strategy ? the first draft make no reference to outdoor learning whatsoever , yet it be prove to broaden people ' s horizon , give people thing to do with their life and make they much less likely to fall into antisocial behaviour . I be happy to take that question on board . I have speak to the head of all the violence reduction unit across the country today , and it be clear that some of the most important work they can do be in partnership with other agency and other body , whether in education , our youth service or other . we need to pull the resource we have together , use what work and follow the evidence . frontline policing : Bureaucracy what step she be take to help reduce level of bureaucracy for frontline police officer . the Government be commit to tackle bureaucracy and be invest ten of million of pound this year in technology to get officer on to the frontline . that include work with police to reduce admin , use tool such as automated redaction and artificial intelligence , and deploy cutting - edge technology such as facial recognition and video response to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of policing . I recently meet the chief constable of Leicestershire , and he explain some of the red tape that his force face . between April 2024 and March 2025 , it use 14 , 769 " use of force " form . these be for when people go into handcuff . some 6 , 500 of those be for people who be complicit and be happy to be handcuff . each time that happen , it take an average of 23 minute to fill in one of those form . if that could be take away , it would save the force about £ 50 , 000 . will the Minister look at this , and will she meet I to discuss some of the other red tape that we could remove to make policing much more streamlined ? we need to ensure that the police be do what we need they to be do , and that they be out on the street solve crime and not tie up in red tape . that be absolutely certain . the way to be tough on crime be to be smart on crime , and I be happy to look at the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion . I recently meet a police officer in Cambridgeshire who tell I that that force have a policy require all footage from stop and search to be review by a more senior officer . due to this , they feel discouraged from do proactive patrol due to the extra work that it add for already stretch supervisor . will the Policing Minister write to Cambridgeshire ' s conservative police and crime commissioner and urge he to be more proactive on challenge these issue so that our frontline police can spend as much time as possible out in our community ? I be sorry that my hon . friend ' s police and crime commissioner be not do what be need . we need to empower the police to be out do what they do well , not create barrier for they to do so . shoplift what step her Department be take to help tackle shoplift . shop theft hit a record high in the last year of the previous Government , but our Crime and Policing Bill will remove the effective immunity for shop theft under £ 200 . we be invest over £ 7 million to support police effort against retail crime over the next three year , include support a specialist team to target organise gang and offender . we also back the Tackling Retail Crime together strategy , in which industry and police be collaborate to well target perpetrator . as a proud member of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and formerly the young deputy store manager for Halford ' s in the east of England , I know at first hand the fear that shoplifting cause to retail worker . what action be my hon . friend take to ensure that the police have the power they need to use the full force of the law to tackle those who steal from our shop ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . every Member of Parliament hear about this issue , and know how distressing it be . the intimidation of shop worker must stop , and the thief who target shop and be steal to order must be target . we be repeal the legislation that make shop theft of and below £ 200 a summary - only offence , which will send a clear message that we will not tolerate this crime . recently , a . c . model in my constituency be target by a series of theft that cost the owner , Annette and Clive , thousand of pound , yet the shoplifter be order to pay they just £ 240 in compensation . with retail loss due to theft at record high , what measure be the Government take to support small business that be prey on by shoplifter ? we need to protect retail worker , and we need to do more to tackle shop theft . as I have just outline , we be do just that . I be very sorry that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have have to suffer this terrible crime . we need to ensure that the message be loud and clear that we will not accept it . Human Rights Act 1998 : immigration what assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of disapplye the Human Rights Act 1998 to immigration matter . clearly the balance between the human right of illegal migrant and the wide public interest be out of kilter . this Government will legislate to limit the application of article 8 of the european convention on human right , which cover the right to a family life . this will mean that we can deport and remove more illegal migrant , and we will pursue international reform , too . in my previous role , I be already involve in conversation with other member state of the Council of Europe , and this Government will continue that work . I welcome the Home Secretary to her position . every new appointment come with an opportunity to take a fresh look at these matter . clearly , since the 1950 , when the refugee convention and the european convention on human right be first write , the world have change significantly . successive government have tweak various bit , work with partner , but do she agree that if we be to stop the small boat that be cross the channel and illegal migration , the Government will need a more wholesale change ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will take a bit of time to look at the speech I make to the Council of Europe just before the summer recess , in which I make a very similar argument to the one he be make . for those of we who be supporter of the convention and who want to see it stand the test of time , we have to recognise that it be a treaty form many decade ago in a different reality and we should have a conversation about whether it be still fit for purpose . it be a conversation that other in Europe be have , and we be take a lead role in those discussion . we will pursue international reform and also reform of our domestic legislation . by leave the EU , the Tories tear up our return agreement with the EU , and they completely fail to negotiate a new one , but this Government have now rectify that . do the Home Secretary agree that the Tories and Reform be in cloud cuckoo land if they think that the French would have sign a return deal with we if we have leave the european convention on human right ? my hon . friend be right to point out that the fact that we be sign up to the european convention underpin other international agreement that we have with partner . it underpin the Good Friday agreement . it also underpin our treaty with the French on the France return pilot . that be why we should be responsible in take forward a conversation on reform of the convention , and that be the approach we be take . I be take that approach in my previous role , and I will carry on do so as Home Secretary . I call the shadow Minister . I warmly welcome the Home Secretary to her place . I very much look forward to the exchange that we will have , so long as the Prime Minister leave she in post . when it come to human right , do she not accept that tinker around the edge simply will not work ? she say in her answer a second ago that she want to see the ECHR reform , but her own Government ' s Attorney General Lord Hermer say just four day ago that ECHR reform be a " political trick " . perhaps she and the Attorney General should get themselves on the same page . give that the Attorney General say that reform be not possible , do she not agree that more fundamental change be need , as my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) say a moment ago ? this year have be the bad in history for illegal immigrant cross the channel — the number be up 38 % , compare with last year . only radical change will fix this mess , so will the Home Secretary back the conservative plan to completely disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 and ensure that all illegal immigrant be immediately remove upon arrival ? order . you know the score ; you know we have to get through question . when colleague do not get in , they will blame the shadow Home Secretary . please try to help other . after that performance , I have to confess that I find myself rather miss the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . the shadow Minister say that we be tinker at the edge . he could not be more wrong ; we have a proper plan for look at legislative reform . but tinker at the edge would have be fantastic under the Conservatives , because their track record be that they do nothing — sod all — in 14 year . suddenly , they have find their reform instinct now that they be in opposition . this government will take forward domestic as well as international reform . Grooming Gangs : National Inquiry what recent progress she have make on establish a national inquiry into groom gang . the process of select a respected and independent chair for the national inquiry into group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse be under way . a dedicated victim and survivor panel be support the process . the inquiry ' s term of reference will of course follow , shape by a public consultation . the inquiry will be trauma - inform and time - limit , as recommend by Baroness Casey , ensure accountability , truth and change . it beggar belief that the inquiry inch along at such a dreadfully slow pace . with the Scottish Government rule out an inquiry there , will the Home Secretary please commit to fast - track a thoroughgoe inquiry into the grooming gang scandal , for the sake of the victim ? for the sake of the victim , who we all think about today , we must ensure that we get this right . there be multiple issue with the chair at the start of Baroness Jay ' s inquiry , which take many year . we want to do what Baroness Casey have recommend , do this right and properly , and do this alongside the victim , whom we be talk to . we must , of course , lead the way on this . we will ensure that we get the right strategy ; it be for Scotland and the Scottish Government to decide on whether to have a similar strategy . it be important to say that , alongside have this important national strategy , we be put in place lot of other policy to tackle this kind of crime . I call the shadow Minister . the Conservatives raise the issue of a national statutory inquiry in January . the Government attempt to block our call for an inquiry until they be force into a u - turn in June . on 2 September , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , say , " this Government will not lose any more time in pursue truth and justice for victim and survivor , " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 160 . ] yet here we stand today — no start date , no chair announce , and no term of reference agree . the victim need action , not word , so will the Minister please tell the victim of these abhorrent crime when the national inquiry will begin — or will this Secretary of State have to be force into action , just like the last ? I will not take any lesson from the hon . Lady , give that the previous inquiry be not implement in any way , shape or form by the previous Government . through the Crime and Policing Bill , we be put in place Baroness Jay ' s key recommendation , which be the right thing to do . it be so important that we make the right decision about the chair , the term of reference and the process for this inquiry , which have victim at its heart . we be follow Baroness Casey ' s advice , and as the hon . Lady will hear soon , we will ensure that we have the right chair and the right approach for the victim . we can do no less . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I would like to use this statement to address the subject of this weekend ' s event . on Saturday , well over 100 , 000 protester march in London . many be exercise the ancient right to peaceful protest , — but not everyone do . some turn on the brave police officer who be there to keep the peace ; 26 officer be injure and 24 protester be arrest . those violent thug will face the full force of the law . those who turn to violence on Saturday do not represent what this country really be . when a foreign billionaire call on our citizen to fight against our ancient democracy , I know that be meet by the vast majority with a shake of the head . that be because we be in truth a tolerant country , and , yes , a diverse one , too . you can be English and have root here that stretch back 1 , 000 year , but you can also be english and look like I . the St George ' s cross and the Union Jack belong to we all . they be symbol of unity — a kingdom united — and must never be use to divide we . I welcome the Home Secretary to her position . do she have plan to introduce a statutory cap on in - bind migration ? I have one job , and it be to secure our border . I will do whatever it take , but what I will never do be take the approach of the previous Government , who be lead by gimmick and false promise that be never meet . antisocial behaviour , include car produce excessive noise along the Southend seafront and Westcliff road , have long affect my constituent . Southend city council , Essex police and I be work hard to address those issue . will the Home Secretary set out how the Government be go far , fast , in tackle antisocial behaviour , and how deliver on our commitment to have a name neighbourhood police officer in every community will directly benefit resident ? this year , £ 200 million have be make available to force to kick - start the delivery of 13 , 000 more neighbourhood officer across England and Wales . I would be very happy to talk to my hon . friend about the issue that he be face . we must tackle antisocial behaviour . I call the shadow Home Secretary . do the Home Secretary accept that her predecessor be move because this government be fail on immigration ? indeed , 75 % of the public think that the Government be fail . illegal migration be up 38 % , make this the bad year in history . let I try again : will the Home Secretary take this opportunity to commit to real action , back our plan to disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 in relation to all immigration matter , and immediately remove every illegal immigrant upon arrival ? I will take no lesson from anyone sit on the Conservative Benches . their Government utterly fail on both legal and illegal migration . this Government , and this Home Secretary , will clean up their mess . the Home Secretary have some brass neck . this have be the bad year in history , with illegal migration up by 38 % . press report this week suggest that a handful of illegal migrant might be remove to France — she have be silent about that so far — but that amount to only 5 % of people cross . do she accept that allow 95 % of illegal immigrant to stay will be no deterrent , and will she commit to publish full datum on a weekly basis ? on the subject of brass neck , I will have to buy the shadow Home Secretary a mirror , so that he can stare at one . as I say , I will not take any lesson from he or any Conservative . this Government have get removal up to 35 , 000 , get asylum decision move again , and strike an historic agreement with France . we be work with our partner in France to get flight off the ground . will the Minister give an update on the work of the defend democracy taskforce , please ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the question , because the target intimidation and harassment of elect representative be completely unacceptable . the defend democracy taskforce work to ensure the safety and security of all electoral process and democratic institution , and to strengthen democratic society . we be conduct a review of the harassment and intimidation face by elect representative . the taskforce have also conclude a review of transnational repression , and we have update Parliament on that . I hope this will be a share endeavour , right across the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this weekend , as the Home Secretary say , Elon Musk use a rally to call — alongside convict criminal , so - call Tommy Robinson — for the Dissolution of Parliament , and to incite violence on our street . give the seriousness of a high - profile figure apparently urge attack on our democracy , what assessment have the Home Office make of these statement , and what step be be take across Government to respond to they , and to protect our democracy ? there be both a legal question here and a political question . on the legal question , in all case , include the one that the hon . Lady raise , it be for the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to decide independently whether the law have be break and charge should be bring . we would never expect a Minister to comment on that ; it would be improper to do so . on the political question , let I say this : the word that be use at the weekend be abhorrent , and I know that the vast majority of people in this country will feel the same way . whether you be a hostile state or a hostile foreign billionaire , no one get to mess with british democracy . member of the all - party group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , which I chair , have the opportunity to meet National Economic Crime Centre officer last week and discuss the work that NECC be do to disrupt money laundering and tax evasion , include through its landmark Operation Machinize . high - street money laundering be of huge concern to I , give the explosion of cash - intensive business over recent year seek to hide beneath a veneer of respectability in order to conceal their dirty money . what measure be the Minister take to empower trading standard , local council , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and law enforcement to tackle this issue head - on ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and the APPG for their work . the Government be absolutely committed to tackle high street money laundering to deliver safe street and economic growth work closely with partner through multi - agency initiative like Operation Machinize . we have strengthen the power under the Economic , Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , and have fund 475 new role under the anti - money laundering and asset recovery programme to detect and investigate offence . just over a week ago , nearly 1 , 000 peaceful protester , include priest and pensioner , be arrest in a single day for oppose the ban on Palestine Action , yet over the weekend , at the Unite the Kingdom protest , 26 police officer be injure and 25 arrest be make . do the Home Secretary agree with my constituent in Dunbartonshire that this raise serious question about proportionality , and will she consider reassess the proscription of Palestine Action ? any attack on the police be utterly shameful . the right to peaceful protest be a cornerstone of our democracy — it be a freedom that we protect fiercely — but Palestine Action ' s activity have meet the threshold for proscription establish in the Terrorism Act 2000 . the organisation have conduct an escalate campaign , involve sustained criminal damage to national security infrastructure , intimidation and alleged violence , include the use of weapon result in serious injury to individual . weaponisation of social medium have become a real cancer in our society , with mps and other be target . what step be the Government take on hostile state threat on social medium that might be be use to undermine our democracy ? my hon . friend be right to raise this . new and emerge artificial intelligence technology have the potential to amplify threat to democracy , include through hyper - realistic bot , which be use to spread disinformation and misinformation at speed . the Government be absolutely committed to address the threat , include by ensure that social medium platform have the right system in place to identify and tackle harmful material that breach their term of service . the Attorney General have claim that we need the european convention on human right and the European Court to solve the illegal migration crisis — an extraordinary claim . will the Minister please explain , therefore , how Australia manage to tackle its migration problem and how the US be manage to implement our Rwanda plan , all outside the european convention that the Attorney General say we need ? the hon . Gentleman hear the Home Secretary ' s point on the convention , but it be clear that gimmick such as Rwanda do not work — £ 700 million for merely four volunteer to go . what work be effective processing , quick decision and quick removal . that be what we will get under this government , and it be what we do not get from those who carp from the Opposition Benches . early this year , 15 - year - old Harvey Willgoose be murder by a fellow pupil when attend school . his murderer have now be convict and a national child safeguard review panel set up , but time and time again such panel make the same recommendation and we fail to implement the kind of learning and culture change that would ensure that another tragedy like this do not happen . will the Home Secretary reassure Harvey ' s family that she will ensure that those panel recommendation be implement and that we can avoid any family like Harvey ' s suffer that same tragedy again ? we offer our sympathy to the family of Harvey , whose death be a heartbreaking tragedy that have devastate the entire community . our thought remain with his family and friend . of course we recognise that pattern — I have see it , too , in my constituency . that be why we be create a child protection authority , as be recommend in a previous inquiry , to provide effective national oversight to ensure that lesson be learn . Chichester city centre have see a rise in antisocial behaviour , in particular by those on e - bike and e - scooter . resident be understandably concerned about such bike , which be often modify in the speed at which they can go . what be the Minister do to give Sussex police power to identify , remove and , most importantly , dispose of the e - bike that be ride so recklessly on our street ? that be a concern that many member in the House share . the Crime and Policing Bill will give the police power to seize vehicle be use antisocially . I be happy to have a conversation with the hon . Lady about what more we need to do . last year , a report by the charity Justice and Care highlight that a lack of regulation allow unscrupulous business owner to exploit vulnerable people . Nottingham Trent University show that 90 % of hand car wash business operate in a way that make they high risk for forced or compulsory labour . will the Government consider license sector such as hand car wash to improve compliance and prevent illegal worker and modern slavery ? in the view of the Home Office , the most important safeguard be the right - to - work check . that be why we will strengthen they under the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill that be make its way through Parliament , but that will have to be underpin with rigorous enforcement . that be why I be pleased that enforcement visit be up 50 % in the past year , as be arrest . the 2018 definition of Islamophobia by the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims say that the debate about rape gang be a form of " anti - muslim racism " . among other alarming thing , it say that raise concern about entryism into government by extremist , which be an established tactic of the Muslim Brotherhood , be Islamophobic . the Home Secretary endorse that definition . do she still believe that address the religion of rape - gang member or identify Muslim Brotherhood entryism be Islamophobic , or do she now disown that definition ? that definition seek to give context to pattern of behaviour . let I be clear for the hon . Gentleman and the whole House : there be absolutely no excuse for , or hiding of , the criminality of those who engage in heinous crime such as those involve rape or groom gang . that be why the Government will take forward the Casey recommendation and have that national inquiry . he know that the Government be work with a work group on a definition of Islamophobia . we have be absolutely clear that we will not pursue any measure that would impinge on our ancient right of freedom of speech . ensure that our town centre be safe , vibrant and welcoming be hugely important in Clwyd North . I warmly welcome the Government ' s safe street summer initiative in Rhyl and Colwyn Bay . from walkabout I have do recently with local police , it be clear that a strong community police presence be crucial to tackle antisocial behaviour where it arise . will the Home Secretary ensure that North Wales police have all the resource they need all year around in Rhyl , Denbigh , Abergele and Colwyn Bay to help build back our town centre ? so far , we have have really good feedback from over 500 town centre that have take part in the safe street summer initiative . that initiative finish at the end of September , so we will have proper analysis then , but it be our priority to ensure that our police have the resource they need all year round . when will level of shoplift finally reduce rather than rise , as they have under this government ? as we be discuss early , target shoplifting be an absolute priority for this Government . we have a raft of intervention and we be take legislative action to protect our retail worker , who have be particularly affect by a massive increase in abuse as well as a rise in crime . I congratulate the new team and welcome they to the Government Front Bench . a week be a long time , but I have a promise to meet the previous Minister to discuss the immigration system , because one of the challenge that the Home Secretary have inherit be a broken processing system . as one of the Home Office ' s large customer for my constituent , I know where the gap and the problem be , so I would welcome a meeting with the Minister about that , if the Home Secretary agree . I share my hon . friend ' s important interest in that issue . I would never miss a chance to meet she and I would be very glad to do so . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I welcome member of the new Government Front Bench team to their place . the previous ministerial team have be clear that they want to stop the use of large site to house asylum seeker , but there have be some indication that that position may have change . will the Home Secretary or the Minister clarify the position , and confirm that if they be change that position , they will learn the lesson of what go wrong previously ? I look forward to work with the right hon . Lady and her Committee in its important work . we have make a significant commitment to the closure of asylum hotel , which be crucial for public conference . it be a matter of record that we be look at big site , include Ministry of Defence site , but we will of course look very closely at the history in this space to ensure that anything that we do be effective and sustain . I warmly welcome the Home Secretary and her team to their place . the Home Secretary will be aware of the recent horrific attack and rape of a Sikh woman in Oldbury , in my constituency , who reportedly have racist abuse direct at she . the case be be treat as a hate crime and a suspect be under arrest . what step be the Home Secretary take to support West Midlands police in secure justice in the case , and to address the wide concern of the Sikh and other ethnic minority community regard the increase of racism in the public discourse , which can lead to target violence and damage community safety ? the horror of a sexual assault motivate by race or ethnicity be absolutely appalling . I be sure that the whole House will join I in condemn such crime in the strong possible term . on the specific of the case , it be an ongoing criminal investigation and it be imperative that we allow the justice system to do its work . I urge anyone with any further information about the case to get in touch with West Midlands police as soon as possible . I hope that my hon . friend and Members across the House will have hear my comment early , when I say that this Government will not stand for any incitement to racial hatred or violence . it be imperative and incumbent on all member of the House to ensure that we all jointly and collectively hold that line . in an early answer , the Minister refer to the increase use by police of live facial recognition . while that may well have some effect on tackle crime , it be be use without any legal framework and no national instruction . will she say when those will be put in place ? facial recognition be be use in a control way for high harm individual . there be guidance about how it should be use , but I be happy to have a further conversation with the right hon . gentleman about that , as I be aware that member from across the House have raise the issue of the framework within which it operate . I pay tribute to my former colleague for the way that they professionally police the protest over the weekend , and I wish those who be injure a speedy recovery . Police officer can not join a union and they have only one staff association — the Police Federation — to choose from , the chief executive of which reportedly take home over £ 600 , 000 last year . will the new ministerial team commit to review whether that monopoly can really serve the interest of our brave police officer ? we need to ensure that our police officer be give the good support that they can be give through the Police Federation , which be the vehicle by which they be support through any incident they have . I will be work very closely with it to ensure that it be do the right thing on behalf of its member . I would not be here today without Wimbledon police station ; in 2014 , two brave officer from that station save I from a murderous attack . Wimbledon police station be now under threat , with its front counter due to close . do the Home Secretary agree that local police station such as Wimbledon ' s be critical to neighbourhood policing and community safety ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s incident ; that must have be absolutely terrifying . we need to ensure that our neighbourhood police be responsive and be there when we need they most , which be why we be target the resource we have to ensure that we have neighbourhood police . the response team must be there when we need they through any mean of get in touch with they , whether it be on the phone , online or in person , and we need to ensure that they be there . when police officer up and down the country — like my former colleague — reach 20 year of service , they receive a long - term service medal , but police community support officer do not seem to receive any recognition for long service . will the Minister agree to look into provide similar recompense and recognition for the service that pcso provide ? I hesitate to announce new policy in week one , but I certainly think there need to be some kind of recognition for our pcso , who do such an incredible job across all our community . be the Home Secretary aware that 20 % of officer in the Metropolitan police be currently either suspend or on restricted duty , with senior officer warn that the situation be unsustainable ? do she agree that we need urgently to review both welfare and disciplinary process in our police service so that town such as Romford can get more police actually patrol our street ? I agree . we need to ensure that resource be target in the place where we need they . we have make significant reform to police standard already , ensure that officer who fail background check , for example , be sack and that gross misconduct lead to dismissal , but we need to ensure that that be right , proper and appropriate and that our police be out on the street where we need they to be . I be very happy to have a conversation with the hon . Gentleman about how these incident be be operate ; I will be have that conversation with the mayor , and I have already have it with the commissioner . last week , our US ally pull back from the Global Engagement Centre their international effort to tackle cyber - threat . what step be the Minister take to ensure that our democracy be protect from foreign interference , cyber - threat and misinformation ? we take all those threat incredibly seriously . we host the five country ministerial meeting with our american , canadian , australian and Kiwi ally just last week . we work incredibly closely with our partner to ensure that we be do everything we can to support UK business and to target the perpetrator of these attack . People in my constituency have raise with I problem of hare coursing , theft , speeding and fly - tipping . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can tackle the wide range of crime in rural area ? I be happy to meet with the hon . Lady . Official Secrets Act before I call the Minister , I wish to make a brief statement . I find out only this morning that the charge against the two individual relate to espionage for the chinese authority be to be drop . I do not think that be good . of course , we do not discuss the detail of security matter relate to Parliament on the Floor of the House , but give the very important issue raise by this case , I ask official to consider whether any further step should be take — operational , strategic or legal — to ensure that all those who work in this Parliament be able to undertake their activity securely and without interference . I be a very unhappy Speaker with what have happen . the fact that it have take two year , until today , for somebody to withdraw this case be not good enough . this morning , the Crown Prosecution Service decide not to proceed with the prosecution of Christopher Cash and Christopher Berry , who have be charge with espionage for China under the Official Secrets Act 1911 . member right across the House will be aware that the charge relate to allegation of chinese espionage within Parliament and will want reassurance , as will you , Mr Speaker . many member will be as extremely disappointed as I be that there will now not be a trial . the decision not to proceed with this prosecution be an independent one for the CPS to make in its role as the UK ' s independent prosecute authority . however , I want to be clear that the Government remain gravely concerned about the threat of chinese espionage . Parliament and our democracy be sacrosanct , and any attempt by any foreign power to infiltrate or interfere with parliamentary proceeding be completely unacceptable . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will therefore set out the measure the Government be take to tackle any residual risk arise from this case and outline the wide approach the Government be take to protect our democracy and counter state threat , include those from China . the decision of the CPS relate to charge under the Official Secrets Act 1911 , which be the relevant legislation in force at the time . it be well know that state threat legislation have not keep pace with the change threat we face . the Official Secrets Act be pass to counter the threat from german spy before the first world war . it refer to espionage as obtain " any sketch , plan , model , article , note , document , or information " that " might be … useful to an enemy " . clearly , that language — draft well over 100 year ago — do not reflect the type of espionage or state threat we face in the modern day , nor the breadth of state that engage directly in that activity . for that reason , the UK pass and have now commence the National Security Act 2023 with cross - party support . that legislation , which replace the Official Secrets Act 1911 , bring new criminal offence and power to bear against the full range of modern - day state threat . moreover , the National Security Act be state agnostic , remove the unhelpful " enemy " language from the Official Secrets Act and focus on the malign activity we be all concerned about . the Act also introduce the foreign influence registration scheme , which the Government bring into force on 1 July . FIRS encourage transparency , strengthen the resilience of our democratic institution against covert influence , and give our intelligence agency and law enforcement additional tool to detect , deter , disrupt and prosecute state threat actor . it require that any foreign influence in our democracy , include from China , be declare . we can now be confident that should case of espionage or state threat be uncover in the future , we will be in a much well position to prosecute they under the new National Security Act . this case hit at the heart of our democracy , so let I be clear : the Government will not tolerate any state threat to the UK and its democratic institution . we will robustly challenge China when necessary , as we would challenge any country for unacceptable behaviour on our soil . I can confirm that the Foreign Office have d é march the charg é d ' affaire of the chinese embassy in London to make clear that we will not tolerate any activity that interfere in our democracy . MI5 be consider the provision of additional advice to those most at risk of be target by state - lead espionage , and the Government be take robust action to counter state threat and continue to build up the UK ' s resilience . in April , we establish a new cross - Government state threat unit to well co - ordinate our response to state threat . as I set out follow the recently complete review of transnational repression , new training module on identify and counter state threat be be offer to all 45 territorial police force through the College of Policing and be mandatory for counter - terrorism policing officer . we have commit to legislate as soon as parliamentary time allow to take forward the recommendation of Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism and state threat legislation . that include create a new proscription - style tool for state threat . as the former Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) set out in his statement to the House follow the conclusion of the China audit , we be invest £ 600 million in our intelligence service to support they in detect and disrupt state threat to the UK . in September , the National Cyber Security Centre co - seal a US - lead technical advisory call out chinese state - sponsor cyber - threat actor target global network , include in the UK . I know there will be call to go far , and I reassure the House and the country that we will keep all tool under review and act as necessary . as you be aware , Mr Speaker , the safety and security of our Parliament be of the utmost importance . that be why the National Protective Security Authority will issue new protective security guidance to parliamentarian and political staff on protection against foreign interference and espionage . that guidance outline the potential risk we all may face in our day - to - day work , and how we can all well protect ourselves . I urge colleague to read and follow the advice once issue . I also urge member to take up the National Cyber Security Centre ' s important opt - in service for member of both Houses . it allow the NCSC to alert individual if it identify evidence of malicious activity on their personal device or account , and swiftly advise they on step to take to protect their information . the strategic defence review be clear that China present a sophisticated and persistent challenge . as the national security strategy reinforce , instance of China ' s espionage , interference in our democracy and undermine of our economic security have increase in recent year . as I have set out , we be address those threat , but there be also opportunity we need to grasp as we navigate our complex relationship with China . the last Government do not describe China as an enemy , and this government do not think our relationship can be simplify down to a single word . instead , we be take a consistent , long - term approach to China , firmly rooted in the UK ' s global interest . I finish by pay tribute to our law enforcement , security and intelligence agency , who do so much to keep we all safe . they operate often in secret , often in the shadow and often at great personal danger , but they have our endure gratitude . while we be extremely disappointed with the outcome in this case , the legislation it rely on have already be change . should we need to go far , we will not hesitate to do what be necessary to keep our country safe . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . let I start by thank the Security Minister for the briefing and information he provide ahead of his statement . let I also join he in pay tribute to the officer in our police force and in the security service . they work so hard and take personal risk to keep we safe . let we start with Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee ' s assessment of China , publish a year or two ago . it find that China have penetrate every sector of our economy . when the Security Minister a moment ago say that China merely pose a " challenge " , he be wrong I think to use that word . China pose a threat . it pose a threat because it participate and organise systemic espionage into our public institution , include Parliament . it purloin intellectual property from university and from company , particularly in the technology sector , and it routinely spy on the UK as a state . they also engage in transnational repression of chinese citizen here , for instance run secret , undeclared police station and put bounty on the head of individual . the word " challenge " be not strong enough ; the state of China pose a threat . the Security Minister say that the Government would " robustly challenge China " , but let I gently point to some of the decision that the Government have take in practice . we see a signal back at the G7 last year , when the Prime Minister be , I be afraid to say , obsequious in deal with President Xi , appear to prioritise economic link above security consideration . we have not see any decision to place China in the enhance tier of the FIRS scheme , although that regime have be in place for several month , and the Government seem to be view with favour the application for a new super - embassy in London , to which our ally , include America , be urge we not to consent and which many of our intelligence service say will be use as a base for espionage activity . so the Government ' s record on China cause deep concern , but of equal concern be this specific case — and , Mr Speaker , you explain why that be of particular concern to Parliament , give that the alleged espionage activity touch directly on Parliament and the way in which Members of Parliament do their duty . I have in front of I a briefing provide to the press by the Crown Prosecution Service , date 26 April 2024 , when these charge be first lay . that briefing state that one of the subject be commission over a period exceed a year , between December 2021 and February 2023 , by a chinese intelligence asset . there be 34 report on what this note describe as " very specific topic " , some of which relate directly and personally to member of Parliament . one of the deputy national security adviser tell the Crown Prosecution Service that he assess this information to be " directly or indirectly , useful " to the chinese state , and say that it be " prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United Kingdom . " give the gravity of that assessment , it be astonishing that these charge have now be withdraw . the Crown Prosecution Service clearly assess these allegation , and the evidence , against the law — against the 1911 Act — in 2024 , and find the test to have be meet ; so why today , more than a year later , have we suddenly be tell that the test be no long meet ? my question to the Security Minister be a simple one : give the gravity of the charge that I have just read out , what have change between last year and this year ? why have a case that meet the threshold and meet the test in April 2024 all of a sudden be determine not to do so ? may I ask specifically whether anyone in the Government put any pressure on the Crown Prosecution Service in relation to this case ? do the Government co - operate fully with the police , the security service and the CPS in provide the information require , include information relate to the definition of " an enemy " ? can the Security Minister give the House those express assurance ? I certainly share your concern , Mr Speaker , and , I be sure , the concern of many other , that what appear to be extremely serious espionage , assess as such in the write disclosure that I read out — assess by the deputy national security adviser as be prejudicial to our national interest — have all of a sudden , and with no explanation , be drop , even though previously , just a year and a bit ago , it be assess that this case do meet the threshold . the House and the country need to know what exactly have change . let I seek to address the shadow Home Secretary ' s point . he raise the question of whether China constitute a threat or not . I think I be very clear in the language that I use . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , and as the Government set out in the strategic defence review , China present a " sophisticated and persistent challenge " . the reality be that , in government , there be an absolute requirement to co - operate with nation all around the world . when there be area in which we need to challenge China , of course we will do so . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman and other Opposition Members will completely understand that when there be area , in term of economic co - operation , in which we need to work closely with China , of course we will do so , because it be absolutely in our national interest . I reference the comment of the previous Foreign Secretary , and the shadow Home Secretary might want to look back at what be say follow the China audit . the previous Foreign Secretary be absolutely crystal clear : we will take a long - term , strategic approach to China that be root in the UK ' s national interest . I understand why the shadow Home Secretary want to boil down such a complex bilateral relationship into a single word , but the reality be that it be neither helpful nor sensible to do so . the shadow Home Secretary will not be surprised to hear that I do not agree with his characterisation of what he describe as the " signal " that this Government have send to China . in truth , I will not take any lesson from he on that , not least because — I have say this to he previously — it be not so long ago that a conservative Prime Minister take the leader of China to the pub . when it come to signal , I be not sure that the shadow Home Secretary speak with a huge amount of authority . the shadow Home Secretary speak about FIRS . he know that the Government ' s position be that no decision have be take with regard to the enhance tier and China , and any decision take by the Government will be announce in the normal way . FIRS be a crucial tool , and I be proud that this Government have get on and implement it as of 1 July . the shadow Home Secretary specifically raise the issue of the embassy in London , as I be sure other hon . member will . he will know that China ' s application to build a new embassy in London be go through an independent planning process . a final decision on planning permission will be make in due course by the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , but I can be absolutely clear , in relation to FIRS , the nature of the threat and the embassy , that national security have be , and will continue to be , a core priority for this Government throughout the process . the shadow Home Secretary ask about the CPS decision . I know that he understand that he be ask I about decision make by the CPS that be entirely independent of Government . this be an independent decision make by the CPS , and it be not for any Government Minister to speculate on the reason behind it . as I have say — I have be crystal clear — the Government be extremely disappointed with the outcome in this case , and we remain extremely concerned about the espionage threat pose to the United Kingdom . I hope that the Intelligence and Security Committee will get a good chance to dig into what have happen in this place , because we be hamper in the Chamber by not be able to look at sensitive issue . I also hope that the Minister will lend his weight to the approval of many senior member of this House , prior to the last election — it get as far as the last Prime Minister — to create a Committee to look at sensitive spending , but also sensitive issue . in the summer , this Government choose to reintroduce extradition arrangement with Hong Kong , despite the application of the chinese security Act . give what the Minister have say today , how can we square both of those position ? I hope that my hon . friend know that this Government hugely appreciate and respect the relationship we have with Hongkongers . through the process in place , we will absolutely ensure that nobody , be they a Hongkonger or any other nationality , be extradite for reason of political expediency . I can also point she to the important work , which we take incredibly seriously , on transnational repression . I previously make a statement to this House , and I hope that she and other understand the seriousness with which we take these activity . we be work closely with our international ally , and we be do everything we can to ensure that the UK be a hard target for these threat , wherever they might originate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as always , I be very grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . for year , the chinese Communist party have work to undermine the democratic institution and value that underpin our society . this House be all too aware of the warning , not least from the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s excoriate report on China . that report make it clear that the previous Government lack a coherent strategy for deal with the threat pose by the chinese state and that insufficient resource have be commit to meet that challenge . we expect to see well from this Government . we be face with a case in which two man , one of they a parliamentary researcher with close link to senior mps , be accuse of serious offence under the Official Secrets Act , only for the Crown Prosecution Service to drop those charge due to insufficient evidence . in this context , the decision be deeply worrying . it raise serious question about the UK ' s capacity to detect and prosecute espionage link to hostile state , particularly China . so what specific issue with the evidence lead the CPS to conclude that the threshold for prosecution be no long meet ? more broadly , what do this outcome say about our preparedness to respond to threat from foreign intelligence service operate on our soil , and even within the corridor of this Parliament ? the Government must make protect our democracy a national security priority . that mean implement the recommendation of the ISC ' s China report in full , and ensure that we be not leave expose to foreign interference simply because our system be not equip to respond . finally , the Minister again today commit to introduce legislation for a proscription mechanism for state and state - link body as soon as parliamentary time allow . could he update we on the timeline for bring this forward and what its scope will be ? I be grateful to the hon . member , as I away be , for the very sensible and reasonable way in which she have make her comment . she raise a number of important observation , many of which I agree with . I do have to say to she what I say to the shadow Home Secretary , which be that it would be completely inappropriate for I to speculate about the reason why the CPS seek to make this decision . I completely understand why right hon . and hon . member would ask I about it , but I hope they also understand that I be not able to talk about why the CPS have decide to make this decision . that be very much a matter for it , not for the Government . on the other point the hon . Member raise , let I give she an assurance that the government do everything we possibly can to ensure that the UK be a hard target to guard against those malign force , wherever they may come from , that seek to infiltrate or interfere with our democratic process . we will ensure that our security and intelligence service and agency and law enforcement have the necessary tool and resource they need to do the difficult job of guard against the threat we face . obviously , as she understand very well , there be also a legislative framework for that , and that be why , I understand , she ask the question about Jonathan Hall KC and the recommendation that she have make recently . as she know , we have make an absolute commitment that we will legislate as soon as we can , and I give she an assurance that that work continue at pace . I thank the Minister for his statement . I think we have a duty — all democracy have a duty — to protect democracy from its enemy . I do not doubt that our ally face exactly the same challenge , so I would be interested to know what discussion we have have with our ally about this very challenge . the Minister mention that mp and their office would get new guidance . can he commit to a date for that be issue ? my hon . friend raise an important point about our ally . many of the threat and challenge we face be share one , which be precisely why the UK Government convene the five country ministerial conference last week . we be proud to host our ally from the five Eyes nation , with which we work very closely , along with other important international co - operation arrangement . we do work very closely with our ally to ensure that , collaboratively and collectively , we be well able to guard against the threat we face . I can give my hon . friend an assurance that we will seek to ensure that the new guidance be in place as soon possible . I also point to the fact that I write to all member of this House just before the recess with advice on protective security and other matter . however , should any Member feel that they need additional support , we will work very closely with you , Mr Speaker , and the Parliamentary Security Department to ensure that they get it . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the Minister make the point that the charge bring be under the old legislation , the Official Secrets Act , which have now be supersede . have he make an assessment of whether the charge would have proceed have the new offence be in place at the time the charge be bring ? will he be work with ministerial colleague , law enforcement and other to look at whether new offence be need in this case and in other ? if I may say so , that be a very clever question from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I hope that the right hon . Lady will understand that , give that the decision be communicate this morning , the Department and the Government will be look at it very closely . I be confident that the new National Security Act give the Government — I genuinely pay tribute to the previous Government for their work in introduce that groundbreaking legislation — the tool we need , but I know she will understand that we will look very closely at the decision communicate this morning and satisfy ourselves that we have all the necessary power and tool to guard against the nature of the threat we face . I thank the Minister for his statement . the first duty of any Government be to keep their citizen safe , and I know that he have a track record of do just that . he also rightly recognise that politics be not just about mp or member of the other place ; it be also about political staff , the Clerks , everybody who work in this place , and everybody in local government . what reassurance can he give my constituent and the great population that he will ensure that we stop foreign influence over our democratic process for everybody ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who raise an important point . I can give he and his constituent the assurance he seek . the Government take these threat incredibly seriously and we will do everything we need to do to keep the public safe . on behalf of the Prime Minister , I chair the defend Democracy taskforce . the Prime Minister recently renew the mandate of that cross - departmental mechanism , which ensure that we be able to provide a whole - of - Government approach to the threat we face . the Government take these matter incredibly seriously . these be not party political issue . I have always believe that these be matter that should be a shared endeavour . I will want to work with he and member right across the House to ensure that , collectively , we keep ourselves safe . I call the Member who have be heavily involve in this , Alicia Kearns . I will be respond in a personal capacity , but may I start by thank you , Mr Speaker , for the support you have give to we over the past two year ? I also place on record my gratitude to our intelligence community and counter - terrorism police , who be exceptional . from a security perspective , today ' s event be disastrous . they will embolden our enemy and make we look unwilling to defend our own nation , even when attack in this place , the mother of all Parliaments . I be relieved that the National Security Act will make it safe and easy in future to prosecute foreign spy , but I urge the Minister to reform the Treason Act so that traitor be prosecute and face justice , put China in the enhance tier , and support private prosecution . it remain unclear to I why Chris Cash and Christopher Berry can not be prosecute under the Official Secrets Act . the evidence show a clear line between those two , the United Front Work Department and the politburo — the very top of the chinese Communist party . the information share be prejudicial to the safety and interest of the UK , and I believe it put member at personal risk . my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) be tell by agency head that the evidence be overwhelming and the case beyond doubt . counter - terrorism police this morning agree and say the same to I — that the evidential standard have be meet at the time of charge . my question for the Minister be simple : if official , the security service and the police agree that the case be a slam dunk , why have the Crown Prosecution Service not be able to get it over the line ? if the CPS be not confident , why , give the compelling evidence , do it not put it to a jury and test it ? whoever be responsible for this decision — whether the Director of Public Prosecutions , an official in his own Department or the Attorney General — they have weaken the defence of our country today and I be desperately sorry to see it . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for her remark , and I completely understand why she have phrase they in the way that she have . let I also join she in thank you , Mr Speaker , for the work you have do to keep parliamentarian safe . over the next few day , week , month and year , it be vital that we work together . I look forward to meet you later on today to discuss how we can ensure that we work together to safeguard all our parliamentary colleague . turn to the substance of the remark make by the hon . Lady , I agree with her characterisation of the National Security Act . I will look very carefully at the point she make specifically with regard to treason . on her assessment of the decision that have be make , I completely understand why she have arrive at that conclusion , as will member right across the House . in my opening remark , I express my extreme disappointment at the decision that have be make . these remark , and the judgment people be form in the House this afternoon , will be hear by the CPS . I know that she will take every opportunity — as will the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , whom she reference in her introductory remark — to seek a meeting with the CPS at the early available opportunity to hear and well understand the decision - make process it have be through . as I have say previously , I be not able to speculate on the reason why the CPS have take this decision . I be extremely disappointed that it have do so , but I will do everything I can to ensure that Government be organise so that we can ensure we have the resource in the right place to stand against the threat that we face . I have raise with the Security Minister on several occasion the fear of the Hong Kong community in Bracknell and across the country , and today be just another reminder of the long arm of the chinese state that so worry my constituent . give that , and give the real and genuine fear of the Hong Kong community , do the Minister agree that it be important that as we seek , rightly , to reform the immigration system — it be good to see the Migration Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) , in his place next to the Security Minister — we nevertheless safeguard and protect the bespoke route of the british national overseas visa , recognise the historic commitment we have to the Hong Kong community ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work he have do to support his constituent and champion hongkonger . hopefully he hear my early remark about the respect and admiration that we have for Hongkongers and the importance that we attach to our relationship . I completely understand the fear that have be represent by my hon . friend and a number of his constituent ; I have have a number of meeting with member of that community and will have further such meeting . I look forward to work with he and with colleague in the Department to ensure that those from the community feel that the Government will protect they , because that be what we will always want to do . I make the follow comment as somebody who have be sanction and hound by the Chinese Government all the way through the past few year . I be brief by the security service at the beginning that this be a slam - dunk prosecution — they be clear that they have meet every single requirement within the Official Secrets Act . as my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) say early , the deputy national security adviser be very clear in his assessment of the information communicate by the two character who be be prosecute that at least 10 of the 34 charge that be lay be absolutely about pass secure information to the chinese intelligence agency that would be " directly or indirectly , useful " to the chinese state . that be very clear . it can not , therefore , be for a lack of evidence that this have be drop by the CPS . the key here be the whole idea of the Official Secrets Act define that work as against an enemy — that be the key . so why in heaven ' s name do the Government not take the opportunity , when it arise after the China audit , to raise China into the upper tier , as they do with Russia , North Korea and Iran ? the Minister speak of threat , but he do not say that China be a threat ; he say it be a " challenge " , which be a ludicrous position to take . I honestly feel today that this Government have let you down , Mr Speaker — the Speaker of this Parliament — after you bravely stand for people like I to protect we against the overture of the Chinese . they have let down Parliament . nobody know now whether they be safe , because these charge have be drop . it be absolutely key , furthermore , that until we define China as what it be — a persistent threat that target individual , like I and other , and state — this will be a shame and a blot on our reputation as a strong state against terrorism . I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman have , for entirely understandable reason , a very long - stand interest in these matter , but I be afraid I do not agree with the assessment he have just offer . this government take the threat that we face , regardless of where they come from , incredibly seriously . we will do everything that we need to do to safeguard our Parliament and our parliamentarian and to ensure that our democracy be not undermine or infiltrate by malign force , wherever they might come from . I give the right hon . Gentleman and the House a categorical assurance that we understand that national security be the first duty of Government , and nothing — nothing — will get in the way of that . as someone who chair the Intelligence and Security Committee throughout its China inquiry and who criticise the previous Government ' s position on China , I be sad to see that this government do not seem to understand the importance of signal . it send a signal to describe " chinese challenge " but not " chinese communist threat " . it send a signal to allow China to build a super - embassy against the advice of the security service . it send a signal not to put China in the top tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , and it send a signal above all to allow it to buy up increasingly important part of our economy and national infrastructure . can we stop send the wrong signal ? the only signal that this Government will send be that threat to our country , wherever they come from , will not be tolerate . China have break international agreement with the UK . it have place bounty on the head of Hongkongers seek refuge in this country . today ' s announcement that charge have be drop will only embolden China in its effort to interfere with our democracy . the Minister have mention the effectiveness of the foreign influence registration scheme , so will he now assure we that all relevant official , include those in the Administration of Hong Kong , will be place in the enhance tier of the scheme ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his remark , but I hope that he would acknowledge that the incident he describe , about which he rightly have concern , be condemn by the UK Government at the time . the UK Government have be clear about the fact that we will not tolerate transnational repression on those live in the UK . FIRS fall out of the National Security Act , and he know that we have already announce that two nation will be include on the enhance tier . any further decision about other nation be include will be make in due course . the Minister euphemistically describe our relationship with China as " complex " . it be not complex . it be characterise by espionage , malign behaviour and a massive trade imbalance . how be that complex , and why do this Government persist in oppose the view of their adviser and permitting — even facilitate — this massive centre for espionage close to the centre of our financial quarter ? I have a lot of time for the right hon . Gentleman , but I do not agree with what he have just say , I be afraid , nor do I agree with the characterisation he make around the embassy . I have say to he and the House previously that national security will be the override priority with regard to any decision that be make independently in a quasi - judicial process lead by the Secretary of State . I can again give he an assurance that when it come to any decision about the embassy , as have be detail in letter that the previous Foreign Secretary and I have send , national security will absolutely be at the forefront of any consideration . there be a very nasty smell about the collapse of this chinese spy affair case . just over a year ago , the Crown Prosecution Service counter - terrorism unit say after complex investigation that these be very serious allegation and that charge be bring , but now we be suppose to believe that it can not provide any evidence whatsoever . it feel to I as if one of two thing have happen here : either the Crown Prosecution Service be wrong — potentially incompetent — or someone very high up in the Government have interfere with this situation . which be it , Minister ? when the hon . member take a moment to think carefully about these thing , he will understand that Government Ministers should not speculate on the reason provide for a particular decision by the Crown Prosecution Service , which be independent of Government . it would be entirely improper for any Minister to do that . I be happy to give he and any other member who need it an absolute assurance of how seriously we take the threat we face from a range of different malign force around the country . this government will ensure that we be well able , well prepare and well resource to guard against the nature of the threat , and nothing will stop we do that . the Security Minister mention the Official Secrets Act 1911 , but he will know that it be update in 1920 and , indeed , in 1989 . as one of the co - author of the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s China report , along with my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , I say to the Minister , follow the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , that that report highlight China as a threat , not a challenge . there have be reference to the ISC look at the case as it be currently look at the data leak around the afghan relocation and assistance policy , but the reality be that the legislation that set up the Committee — one part over 30 year ago and one part over a decade ago — be not fit for purpose . a lot of trust be invest in that Committee . be it not time that with more power and funding go to the Intelligence and Security Committee — with even more responsibility be put on it , to be fair — it should be give more power so that this Parliament and the people we represent know there be proper democratic parliamentary oversight of the intelligence community in this country ? they be wonderful and they do a fantastic job , but they be sometimes fallible . I be grateful to the right hon . member for his remark , as well as the work he have do in this area and his service on the Committee . as a former Committee member , he will understand that the Committee be fiercely independent of Government , and rightly so , but I happen to think it do an outstanding job . it be a great asset for Parliament . as Security Minister , I will want to work incredibly closely with the Committee and co - operate with it whenever we can . it be clearly not for I to suggest particular matter that it may wish to investigate , but know the Chair and the deputy Chair as I do , I think it entirely likely that it may decide to look closely at this particular matter . the Minister be clearly not happy with the CPS ' s decision , and therefore the Government be not , and the House be obviously not either . because the two suspect do not face a trial , double jeopardy do not come into play . will the Minister undertake to explore with the Attorney General the scope for he to bring a case against those two , if not under the Official Secrets Act to test the case with a jury , then under the new legislation , which clearly would present no problem in court term ? I certainly agree with the hon . member in his assessment of my be not happy . the decision be communicate this morning . the point he raise be reasonable , constructive and helpful , so let I take they away and consider they with colleague across Government . the threat to our national security from China be real , and I share the disappointment and concern express . however , the Minister will also be aware that China have use entirely bogus national security charge to imprison a british citizen , Jimmy Lai , who have now be in solitary confinement for five year and whose health be deteriorate rapidly . this morning , his son Sebastien Lai ask to see the Prime Minister to press he to do more . will the Minister reinforce that case and take every action possible to get the Chinese to release Jimmy Lai ? Jimmy Lai should be release immediately . the Joint Committee on Human Rights , of which I be a member , publish an inquiry report into transnational repression early this year . it welcome the introduction of a foreign influence registration scheme but express concern about the absence of China on the enhance tier . its absence risk undermine the credibility and coherence of the scheme . will the Minister listen to colleague from across the House , pick up the recommendation of the report and include China on the enhance tier ? I be grateful to the hon . member for the work he do on the Committee . I hope that when I give evidence to the Committee , I convey the seriousness and importance that we attach to matter relate to transnational repression . I be genuinely grateful to the Committee for the work it have do and the report it publish . I will respond to it as soon as I be able to do so . the Minister have repeatedly say that it be not his job to speculate on the CPS . he be right , but it be his job to defend the security of this country and therefore to ask the CPS why it have not bring charge . have he do that ? have he rung the CPS before he come to the House to speak to it and to understand why it have not go ahead ? if not , why not ? I accept the charge the hon . Gentleman make against I that it be my responsibility to defend our national security , and I hope he understand that that be something I take incredibly seriously . the decision be communicate this morning . this be an independent decision , but I give he and other an assurance that we will , of course , look incredibly closely at it . in early June , the Government tell I that the report regard the inclusion of China in the enhance tier would come forward in due course . as the Minister say in his statement , the charg é d ' affaire at the chinese embassy have now be d é march . can the Minister outline why China have not be include in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , because if national security be the first duty of Government and nothing will get in the way of that , why be the Government dither when it come to formally challenge China ? we be not do what the hon . Gentleman suggest we be . what we be seek to do be ensure that we have all the right tool to guard against the nature of the threat that we face . we take that incredibly seriously . he know our policy with regard to FIRS , which this Government introduce on 1 July , but no doubt we will have more to say about it in due course . be the alarming takeaway from this , both for this House and for any potential spy , that we be be ask to believe that the espionage in which Messrs Cash and Berry engage be not a criminal offence ? be that where our defence of national security have get to ? the takeaway be that the CPS make an independent decision this morning , and that this Government will do everything we can to keep the country safe . that be the takeaway . the Minister be an honourable man , but our disquiet and our constituent ' concern run very deep . while I welcome the improved legislation in place to deal with the issue , the fact of the matter be that once again — I say this with great respect — the Government be be see nationally as weak on criminal activity , and particularly on the action of the three defendant . when will the Government remind the world that this great nation , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , be a strong nation that meet our enemy face to face and on any footing ? will the Government send the message that any foreign operative on our soil will be root out and will pay a price for work against this sovereign nation ? I hold the hon . gentleman in the high regard , so I hope that he will not mind I gently point out to he that I could not have be clear in my early remark about how seriously we take these issue . we will work very closely with ally and partner right around the world to ensure that we do everything we can to guard against the threat that we face . I call Alicia kearn on a point of order . may I just say what a pleasure it be to see you back ? thank you , Mr Speaker . that be very kind . I shall be return home to my four - month - old in a couple of hour . on a point of order , Mr Speaker , Government Front Benchers be unable to answer the question of this House regard the decision making of the Crown Prosecution Service , so can you kindly advise how this House can scrutinise the Crown Prosecution Service and its decision , as that be clearly the will of the House ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of her point of order . I believe that this be a matter for the Attorney General — who be responsible for the CPS — and as he sit in the other place , maybe we will have to use the Solicitor General as a way forward . in this case , I hope that a clear message have go back to everybody that when we still have Members of Parliament who have sanction , we can not let this go in the way that seem to have be do . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker , I be one of the mp who be currently sanction by China , and as one of the founder of the China Research Group I be one of the mp who be spy upon here . I find it astonishing not just that this case , which be a slam dunk last year , have now be drop , but that we be not even be tell why it have be drop . the one bright spot in this whole process have be your leadership on the issue , Mr Speaker , and in particular your decision to ban the chinese ambassador from this building for as long as member of this House be sanction . I worry that certain people will now come to you with honey word . how can I put on the record our thank to you for your leadership , and also our hope that you will continue to stand strong on behalf of member of this House ? I think you have certainly put it on the record . I take seriously the sanction that have be lay . my worry be that we have foreign state actor who do not believe in democracy , and democracy within this House . we must defend our democracy ; we must defend member of Parliament . I have to say a big thank you to our head of security , who have work very hard on this . I be sure — not that they would make this judgment — that we be all disappoint with the outcome , include the Minister . Ambassador to the United States : Appointment and Dismissal Application for emergency debate ( Standing Order No . 24 ) I seek leave to propose that the House debate a specific and important matter require urgent consideration , namely the appointment process and circumstance lead to the dismissal of the former ambassador of the United Kingdom to the United States , Lord Mandelson . this be a matter of utmost concern across the House and across party line . our ambassador in Washington stand at the centre of Britain ' s most vital bilateral relationship . it be a role of exceptional sensitivity , with more classified intelligence cross the ambassador ' s desk than reach most Cabinet Ministers . the post carry immense responsibility . the ambassador represent Britain ' s interest to our most powerful ally and , in so do , shape our reputation abroad . his conduct , both prior to appointment and during , must reflect the high standard of professionalism , discretion and integrity — nothing less will do . Lord Mandelson fail that test long before last week ' s revelation , long before the understandable public outrage at the disgraceful behaviour with the paedophile Epstein , and long before the family of his victim quite rightly criticise the appointment . what be public about Mandelson ' s past be more than enough to disqualify he from consideration for ambassador , from his resignation from Government not once but twice — first in 1998 for not tell the truth about an interest - free loan , and then in 2001 for help a wealthy businessman get a passport — to his link to the russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska , a gangster capitalist who benefit to the tune of many million of pound from policy promote and sign off by Lord Mandelson when he be EU Trade Commissioner , and , particularly relevant today , his commercial link defend China . all of that be in the public domain before the Prime Minister appoint Lord Mandelson as our ambassador . why be it ever think acceptable to appoint a man with such a chequered and murky background to such a vitally important position ? the House need to know what vetting be do and when , what the opinion be of the Foreign Office , the Foreign Secretary , the Cabinet Office and the security service , and when the Prime Minister be tell . we need to know who know what , and when . the Government must take the House with they on these appointment , but their behaviour to date on this issue have be mark by obfuscation and delay , by recrimination and cover - up . it be not just a question of the Prime Minister ' s political judgment , important as that be ; it be a question of ethic . it be a question of what be deem acceptable behaviour , when in position of power . the House must have the opportunity to debate this matter before the recess . I have listen carefully to the application from the right hon . member and be satisfied that the matter raise be proper to be discuss under Standing Order No . 24 . I put it to the House . application agree to . the right hon . Member have obtain the leave of the House . the debate will be hold tomorrow , Tuesday 16 September , as the first item of public business . the debate will last for up to three hour and will arise on a motion that the House have consider the specified matter set out in the right hon . member ' s application . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I seek your guidance ? I lead an Adjournment debate last Wednesday . in an intervention on the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) make reference to " the misquoting of thing that have be say " . — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 1010 . ] the quotation that I refer to in the debate be his word , source from my London news , which report that the hon . Member tell the Local Democracy Reporting Service that the Hillingdon Conservatives who organise the petition against the closure of the hospital be guilty of " faux outrage on this matter " , which he say be " both laughable and offensive " . if the hon . Member have be notify of my intent to raise this point of order and dispute the word report by the Local Democracy Reporting Service , I be sure that he can say so , but how can I place on the record that the word I ascribe to he — " faux outrage " — be a direct quotation of his ? I assume that the hon . Member have give notice to the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) of his intention to raise this matter ? indicate assent . I thank the hon . member for the point of order and for give notice of it . there be mechanism for member to correct the record if they so wish . he have put the matter on the record , but if he wish to continue , I be sure that the Government Front Benchers will have hear he . Bill Presented Road Traffic ( Horse and Rider Safety ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Lee Dillon , support by Sarah Dyke , Liz Jarvis , James MacCleary , Edward Morello , Martin Wrigley and Andrew George , present a Bill to make provision about the require speed and distance for pass horse in a move vehicle ; to provide for the inclusion of equestrian safety in drive theory test ; to make provision about the teaching of equestrian safety in drive education ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 October , and to be print ( Bill 305 ) . Employment Rights Bill : Programme ( no . 3 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Employment Rights Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 21 October 2024 ( Employment Rights Bill : Programme ) , as vary by the Order of 11 March 2025 ( Employment Rights Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 22 , 1 , 7 , 8 , 21 , 23 , 106 to 120 , 46 to 49 , 60 to 62 , 72 , 121 , 2 to 6 , 9 to 20 , 24 to 45 , 50 to 59 , 63 to 71 , 73 to 105 and 122 to 169 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) proceeding on the first of any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 5 ) proceeding on any subsequent message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Employment Rights Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that Lords amendment 66 , 88 , 90 , 91 and 101 engage Commons financial privilege . if any of those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . after clause 22 - contractual duty of confidentiality relate to harassment and discrimination 4 . 43 pm I beg to move amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 22 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 22 and Government amendment ( b ) . lord amendment 1 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 7 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 8 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 21 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 23 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 106 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) to the word so restore to the Bill . lord amendment 107 to 120 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 46 to 49 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 60 to 62 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 72 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 121 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 2 to 6 , 9 to 20 , 24 to 45 , 50 to 59 , 63 to 71 , 73 to 105 and 122 to 169 . it be a pleasure to make my first appearance at the Dispatch Box as Secretary of State for Business and Trade to deliver the big improvement in worker ’ right for a generation , as part of the Labour Government ' s Employment Rights Bill , which form a key plank of my party ' s manifesto commitment . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor , the right hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , for his work on the Bill and , more widely , in support our country to get to growth . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) for her tireless fight for the right of work people . without she , this Bill would simply not exist . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who work so hard to get the legislation to this point , and to my dear friend Baroness Jones of Whitchurch , whose indefatigable work in the other place have ensure that this Bill be steer through the legislative process with a very steady hand . to many who have work on this Bill , it have be a life ' s work , and the culmination of an enormous amount of effort on their part , for which I be extremely grateful . this be a landmark Bill . it be pro - worker and pro - business , and it support the Government ' s objective of boost growth and improve living standard across the country . will the Secretary of State give way ? so early on ! I will happily give way . I be grateful . the new Secretary of State have be ask this several time , but we never hear an answer : can he point to a small or medium - sized business that actually support this Bill ? of course I can . many business have now come out in support of the Bill . the hon . Gentleman ask for a small business or a large business ; let I give he one of each . I have talk to small and medium - sized enterprise . R & W Scott Ltd , a lead UK manufacturer base in south Lancashire specialise in high - quality ingredient for jam , come out in steadfast support . if the hon . Gentleman want to know of large business who back this Bill , I could mention the Co - op , Centrica and Richer Sounds — all business that , as he will know , serve his community and his constituent . he should get behind those business in their support of the Bill . I welcome the Secretary of State to his new role . he will be aware — as will the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , who be next to he — that ikea in my constituency welcome this legislation , but when the Conservatives hear that , they heckle , and say , " oh , they ' re swedish . " will my right hon . friend recognise the huge amount of employment that ikea provide in this country , and welcome its foreign investment ? do he agree that ikea welcome this legislation because it realise that support its staff lead to well productivity and more loyalty to the company ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be a champion for investment in our country , unlike the conservative party , which do down the country while it be in government , and be do it down while in opposition , too . the task this Government have set themself be formidable : to update employment law and make it fit for the age in which we live ; and to reward good employer , and ensure that the employment protection give by the good be extend to million more worker . I have a letter from the Hampshire chamber of commerce , which , the Secretary of State will be pleased to hear , say that business be not oppose to all the change that will be make to employment legislation , but it do focus on several area of concern , such as the involvement of a tribunal in decide whether an employee have be legitimately dismiss during their probation period , remove statutory sick pay waiting day , and change to trade union recognition and industrial action threshold . will the Secretary of State do more to engage with chamber of commerce about these concern ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his thoughtful contribution , and for reflect the voice of chamber , who do an incredible job right around our country — and around the world . I say to the chamber , and to he , that the Bill reflect the good standard that be already in use right around the country by the very good employer — indeed , by most employer . those employer have nothing to fear and a lot to gain from this legislation . on consultation , this be a Government who listen constantly , and we will continue to listen . on those measure for which an implementation phase be really important , there be , unusually , formal consultation in which business can engage . this be a listen Government and an act government , and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment . we welcome many aspect of the legislation , but I put this question on behalf of my small business . they say that sickness absence cost they £ 3 , 500 a year — it cost some £ 5 billion across all the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — and they be worried that the legislation could dramatically raise their fee and cost for the next year . how will this Bill support small business that literally can not afford to pay sick pay as well as hire someone in the place of the sick ? that be a constructive question , and my small business need the answer . in all the Front - Bench job I have have , I have enjoy my exchange with the hon . Gentleman , who be always constructive and well intentione . I do not expect that we would enjoy that renew relationship so soon in my new position . I say to he , and to the incredible business in his community , which I have have the pleasure of visit , that a healthy workforce be a productive workforce . we intend to ensure the health and wellbeing of employee , and to ensure support for they in the workplace , structure in a way to get the very good out of they . that will be of benefit to employee , and certainly to employer as well . my right hon . friend will , without doubt , remember those dark day of covid , when people have to turn up in the workplace , despite be poorly . that contribute to the spread of the pandemic . do that not illustrate the need to ensure that when people be ill , they can rely on a sickness absence framework that support they , and allow they to return to work when they have recover ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . both in time of crisis , such as during covid , and in good time , there be good employer and those who sometimes fall beneath standard . Covid shine a light on the challenge that can be face in the workforce . in those time , we need to see the good from everyone . the majority of business support their employee through that time of challenge . we want to ensure that the floor be high enough , and that the standard for every workforce be those that be set by the good , not by those who fall short of what we expect in Britain in the 2020s . today , I ask the House to renew its commitment to this legislation . I will ask hon . member to endorse government amendment that seek to clarify and strengthen a number of measure , and to reject the amendment of Conservative and liberal Democrat peer who join force to undermine the progress that we be attempt to make . I make an exception of those in the other place who have the sincere aim of scrutinise , and who ensure that the Bill be steer through the legislative process there with a steady hand . in opposition , those now in government probably rightly criticise the Conservative Government for introduce Henry VIII power , yet the Bill be absolutely riddled with they . do the Secretary of State agree with the Attorney General that such power strike at the heart of the rule of law ? I agree that such power need to be use wisely . the House will notice that many clause provide for guidance in primary legislation during the implementation phase , and consultation with the business affect . member will have their voice hear , as will business and worker affect by the Bill . during the passage of the Bill through both Houses , there have be improvement to the legislation , and I be grateful to member of both Houses for their tireless work . the vast majority of the Employment Rights Bill be very much to be welcome . amendment 61 , which relate to heritage railway and heritage tramway , would allow people under the age of 16 to volunteer on those heritage railway line . it have be so narrowly word as to be specifically for those sector , and it would give young people fantastic opportunity to learn about technology , to work across generation , and to contribute to their community . will the government please consider it again ? I know that this be something that affect the community that right hon . Lady represent , and that she be a tireless champion for her community here in Parliament , via the all - party parliamentary group on heritage rail . I will come to that amendment specifically , so I think it be good that I leave the answer until then . if she want to come back to I once she have hear the explanation as to why we will not support amendment 61 , I will happily take another intervention . I will start by speak to the amendment that the Government make in another place . the majority of they reinforce and strengthen exist measure in the Bill by make technical adjustment . they close loophole to safeguard policy functionality , resolve uncertainty and ensure that measure be comprehensive and effectively deliver the policy as intend , as set out by the plan to make work pay . some of the substantial amendment follow excellent campaigning by member of this House and the other place , and demonstrate that the Government be listen and take action , where appropriate . the Government ' s amendment on zero - hour contract strengthen and clarify provision that be already in the Bill when it leave this place . our commitment to ban exploitative zero - hour contract be the culmination of year of campaigning by Labour mps , trade union and the wide Labour movement . for too long , these contract have be use to replace full - time job . the Government amendment table in the other place reflect our commitment to get the detail right , and be inform by extensive engagement with a wide range of business , trade union and other expert stakeholder . my husband suffer a catastrophic brain haemorrhage , which mean that he could not return to his work , but after he begin to recover , he start to work again in another job , help by a zero - hour contract . it mean that if he be not well enough to work , he could agree with his employer that his hour could be adjust to suit . the practical and fair solution be to give staff a right to request a zero - hour contract , rather than replace a requirement for business to offer a zero - hour contract . I hope that the hon . Lady will pass on my sympathy and encouragement , and that of the whole House , to her husband , who have show tenacity and resilience . I will come to the relevant part of the Bill shortly but , in summary , we feel that put the onus on employee to request , rather than on employer to deliver , such contract would alienate several category of worker , particularly young worker and those with vulnerability . I will come to that in a minute , and it would be a delight to take any further intervention that she might have then . technical change include clarification of how zero - hour contract provision apply to agency worker ; reinforcement of the guarantee hour provision in relation to worker with annualise contract and interaction with unfair dismissal ; refinement of the right to payment for short - notice provision , in relation to when payment and notice of exemption be due ; and expansion of those provision to staff employ by both Houses . together , these amendment strengthen the legislation by ensure it be fair , proportionate and clear . on short - notice period for zero - hour contract , there be an opportunity in the House of Lords to support the Liberal Democrat amendment that would require employer to give employee at least 48 hour ' notice . labour peer vote against that amendment and the Government have not come forward with an alternative , suggest that it will take until 2027 before there will be consideration of those measure . will the Minister explain why we will have to wait nearly three year before we can get a response to that ? the power that the hon . Gentleman refer to be strident power . we have firmly commit to consult on those power and to report back , base on the outcome of the consultation , and that show that we be listen . we will learn from the consultation and , if necessary , we will act . when the Minister consult on those power , will he include the agricultural sector ? with seasonal work , there be a big concern that employer will not necessarily have time to provide a notice period as the weather change . on behalf of all our farmer , I ask he to consider that . as a Member of Parliament represent a constituency in the beautiful county of Sussex , I be aware of the need of seasonal worker , include those in the agricultural sector . we believe that the Bill allow flexibility for that sector , but if the hon . Lady would like to write to I with further update , I be always willing to listen . on that point , will the Minister give way ? let I make a little progress , then I will come back to the right hon . gentleman ; I be sure he will understand . we move on to bereavement leave . the Bill will ensure that every employee have an immediate right to bereavement leave from the first day of employment . as both Houses have agree , bereavement be not an illness or a holiday , and it need its own special category . the Government amendment in the other place expand bereavement leave entitlement in the Bill to include pregnancy loss occur before 24 week . I pay tribute to all those who have campaign on that change , such as the Women and Equalities Committee — specifically my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) — and countless woman who have tell their own very personal and painful story of loss as part of the campaign for this important change . I have be very open about my own experience with grief and loss , and I feel strongly that people need time away from work to grieve . no one go through the heartache of pregnancy loss should be worry about work ; they must be able to take time to recover . I give way to the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) . let I take the Secretary of State back to zero - hour contract . the seasonality of the hospitality industry and , indeed , boat build down in my constituency , where large number of student be take on , mean that scheduling for guarantee hour be very difficult , particularly when those student benefit from the provision , because they want to partake in race and other seasonal activity of a leisure nature . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise his concern in this area . I represent a constituency in Brighton and Hove that have a vibrant hospitality and night - time economy and two university , so I have pay particularly close attention to these issue . I reassure he that the Bill refer to exploitative zero - hour contract . it be clear that some people will want employment on different term , and we have flexibility in the Bill for those circumstance . where there be exploitation or the potential for it — which surely we all agree exist in the economy at the present time — we should act against those sort of thing . in the positive spirit in which the Secretary of State speak , will he commit on the Floor of the House that the reference period use to calculate hour for sector that have serious seasonality — we have hear about boat building , hospitality , tourism and farming — will not be a ridiculously short period , such as 12 week ? will it be long enough to reflect the seasonal nature of that type of work ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the passion with which he speak . that be a very important point , and that be why we be consult on the time threshold ; we want to get it right . as my predecessor and I have say repeatedly , this Bill be good for worker and good for business , and that be the spirit in which we will continue . let I move on to fire and rehire , on which hon . member will know there have be a long - run campaign lead by trade union . the provision in the Bill will ensure that employer be no long able to use cruel fire and rehire practice . no long will unscrupulous employer be able to fire employee to replace they on low pay . the Bill also ensure protection for employee replace by non - employee worker , such as agency staff , to do the same role . as we say in our manifesto , these reform be a pro - business , pro - worker set of measure . they strike a balance , curb misuse while allow fair business time for adaptation . this Bill will make work fair for thousand in my constituency . however , my constituent be worried that conservative member seek to water down this legislation . can the Secretary of State confirm that the Government will resist their attempt and be commit to introduce the Bill in full ? I understand that there will be worker around the country who be worried about the watering down of such legislation . I reassure my hon . friend that as long as they vote Labour , that will never happen . in the other place , the Government make amendment to strengthen protection for social care worker and school support staff , ensure that worker whose employer go above and beyond the minimum standard set out by the negotiate body will have those well term protect . on that point , will the Secretary of State give way ? how could I resist such an invitation ? as a former schoolteacher and leader , I know the value of support staff and how critical they be , but do the Secretary of State agree that Lords amendment 121 be unnecessary ? the Bill already ensure that no negotiating body can prevent employer from offer well term and condition where they wish to do so . the school support staff negotiate body be regrettably abolish in 2010 , but this Government will reinstate it . the amendment would add needless bureaucracy and would risk impede the flexibility that school and staff rightly expect . my hon . friend have demonstrate many thing in that intervention , include what a great teacher she be . as a former chair of governor and a governor of a couple of school , I can assure she that I too understand the value of teach assistant and all those who support the education of young people . I agree that the Bill get the balance right — that be why we be proceed as we be . I turn to the Lords amendment deal with the international maritime provision . the Government amendment clarify that a regulation to implement future agreement may not be bring into force before the agreement be ratify , but by implication , such regulation may be make before it be ratify . this will allow the UK to meet its international obligation by ensure such regulation can be make ahead of the deadline for bring they into force . the Fair Work Agency provision will establish a single body to enforce a wide range of employment right . the Government amendment be technical refinement to improve enforcement and co - ordination . they clarify definition of " worker " and " employer " , enable summary sheriff in Scotland to act on underpayment notice , and refine provision on datum sharing between enforcement body . the amendment will ensure that the Fair Work Agency can operate smoothly and effectively . in another place , the Government also make an amendment to change the time limit in the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes ( Consultation by Employers and Miscellaneous Amendment ) Regulations 2006 from three month to six month , ensure consistency with wide employment tribunal time limit reform . amendment be make in another place to the trade union provision . the Government have refine the provision on trade union recognition by add sanction for non - compliance , require timely sharing of worker datum , and tighten timeline to protect bargaining unit . together , these amendment enhance fairness , transparency and enforceability in trade union recognition . I now turn to non - disclosure agreement . the Government be commit to end the misuse of nda , which silence victim of sexual harassment , discrimination and bullying . I thank member of this House and those in another place for their work on this issue , as well as Zelda Perkins , the founder of can ' t Buy my silence , for her tireless campaigning , and my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , who have champion this cause for many year . today must be a good day for she , as she see another step forward take in deliver those right . I be sure all member of the House would like to note that Zelda Perkins join we in the Under - Gallery today , and to thank she for her tireless work in campaign on this issue . the road map for implementation of this legislation be publish before the Government table their amendment , so will the Secretary of State confirm when he will commence consultation , and when the Government be aim for this primary legislation to commence so that the ban on nda can come into force ? it be great to know that Zelda be in the Chamber with we today , and that my right hon . friend be also in the Chamber to give voice to so many campaigner and the work she have do . the Prime Minister have confirm that the road map remain as be . in another place , we make two amendment to strengthen the provision in the Bill that protect victim , while preserve nda to protect legitimate business interest . the new clause will allow worker to speak freely about their experience and allow those who have witness misconduct or have knowledge of it to call it out by void a non - disclosure agreement that have be use to try to silence victim . the Government will consult on related secondary legislation before commence the measure . the Government propose two new amendment . the first will extend the scope of the clause to include staff of both Houses . we be propose that change follow discussion with parliamentary authority . the second amendment be design to give disabled worker more protection . it will extend the scope of relevant discrimination to include a failure to make reasonable adjustment for disabled person under section 21 of the Equality Act 2010 . that will ensure that all form of harassment and discrimination in the Equality Act be cover . I will now set out the Government ' s position on the 28 non - Government amendment make to the Bill in the other place , which cover 12 policy area . lord amendment 1 address provision on zero - hour contract and seek to change the onus from the employer to the employee on the right to guarantee hour . the amendment shift it from a duty on employer to offer guarantee hour to qualify worker to a model where employee must actively request they . the Government believe that the duty to offer guarantee hour should lie with the employer . a right - to - request model could create undesirable barrier , make it especially difficult for vulnerable worker on exploitative zero - hour contract to access their right to guarantee hour , especially as many such worker be young and may be in their first job . as of June 2025 , approximately 480 , 000 people in employment age 16 to 24 be on zero - hour contract . that be out of a total of 1 . 18 million worker on zero - hour contract overall . our position strike a fair balance between protection and choice . for that reason , the Government do not support the amendment . I think we have a difference in how we look at Lords amendment 1 . it do not water down the Bill ; it add more flexibility so that people get the opportunity to have the kind of employment that work for they . that be particularly important in an environment where we be try to get people off disability benefit and back into work . I be grateful for the hon . member ' s thoughtful intervention . I still believe that in order to exercise right , people have to know that they exist . the majority of people — young people in particular — enter the workforce in such number via zero - hour contract simply would not know that those right exist for they . by change the onus so it be on employer , it clarify the right they have and ensure that every workplace must offer equal access to employment hour . this Bill include flexibility , and I think those will encompass the situation over which she have legitimate concern . lord amendment 7 and 8 seek to provide that a short - notice cancellation payment be due only where the shift be cancel less than 48 hour before it be due to start . the Government intend to set out short notice period regulation follow a consultation . I know that 48 hour seem a long time to some Ministers , but do he agree that have a shift cancel at short notice would be bad news for many worker across the country ? this Bill should be amend to specify an acceptable notice period . I think the Bill get the balance right . for most people in most workplace , 48 hour be a long time , although I have witness some speech in this place that have be a lot short than that , but seem a lot long — perhaps the one currently unfold be an example . the consultation will determine a fair short notice period that work for business and worker . put the implementation detail in regulation will retain the flexibility to respond to change circumstance . the Government have already state in the Bill that " short notice " will not be more than seven day , and we be committed to continue to work closely with business and trade union and consider carefully the right approach to this matter . that be why the Government will be reject the amendment . Lords amendment 21 would give employee who be special constable the right to reasonable time off to carry out their police duty . this Government recognise the value and the role of special constable in keep our community safe , a role that have be highlight by the campaign lead by the Association of Special Constabulary Officers and in the amendment originally table in the House of Commons by the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) . we acknowledge the strength of feeling behind the proposal , and recognise the importance of ensure that the list of public duty reflect the need of modern society , but we believe that before any change be make , a wide review of duty that employee may take time off work to undertake be require . today we be propose an amendment in lieu to make a statutory commitment to undertake a full review of the list of duty capture under section 50 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , and to publish a summary of the finding of the review within 12 month , with specific reference to special constable . the review be already under way , which reflect our commitment to act swiftly and transparently on this important matter follow the strong case make in both Houses and the cross - party engagement on the issue , for which we be grateful . the review will assess whether the current list of public duty qualify for time off remain fit for purpose , and will consider the inclusion of additional role such as that of special constable . that approach ensure that any change be inform by robust evidence and stakeholder input . lord amendment 23 and 106 to 120 seek to reduce the qualifying period for unfair dismissal from two year to six month , while preserve exist exemption . the Government do not support the amendment . we be elect on a manifesto to provide protection from unfair dismissal from day one of employment . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way ; he be be very generous . can he explain why , before he take up his present post and take responsibility for the Bill , no assessment be make of the hire practice that would occur if the unfair dismissal period be reduce from two year ? why be no modelling do ? it be in the Labour party manifesto , but where be the evidence of what it will do to job and economy ? that be what my constituent be concern about . of course many of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will be concern about their workforce protection , and those who be set up , run and manage business will want we to get the balance right as well , but we have many year of experience that have inform the decision we have take , and our engagement with trade union and other body have ensure that we have get that balance right . I be glad that the Secretary of State have mention trade union , because that allow I a moment to return to his early point about ban fire and rehire . in July , the general secretary of Unite say that what Birmingham be propose for its bin worker be fire and rehire . if this Labour Government do not like the idea of fire and rehire , when will they tell their colleague in Birmingham about that ? I think that the hon . Gentleman be make an argument for the Bill . we want to ensure that every employer in the country have the same legislative framework in which to operate . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will , but I must alert all member to the fact that I want to have time to listen to their own speech , so I shall be rattle through from now on . what can the Secretary of State say to those in the boatbuilding industry who have make representation to I about protection from day one ? when someone take on a craftsman , it can take quite a long time to establish whether he be any good and up to the job . the reassurance that I give be that we will implement this policy , have listen to employer . we will make sure that the right to which we have commit in our manifesto be fully uphold . what employer want be to have worker who be fully committed to their life in the workplace . if employee feel that they have an unreasonable sword of Damocles over their head , employer will not get the good productivity out of those worker . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be go to make some progress . we have say explicitly that our intention be to provide a less onerous approach for business to follow in order to dismiss someone during the statutory probation period for reason to do with their performance and suitability for the role . the Government be commit to undertake a public consultation to get the detail of the statutory probation period right , to keep it light touch and to get the standard right . Most employer who use contractual probation period operate they for six month or less . the Government ' s preference be for the statutory probation period to be nine month long . that will enable an employer to operate a basic six - month probation period , with an option for extension where employer wish to give their employee further time to improve their performance . we will consult on the duration , which be why the Government will not agree to Lords amendment 23 and 106 to 120 . Lords amendment 48 seek to impose a duty on the Secretary of State to have regard to the requirement for seasonal worker when make regulation . the Government do not believe the amendment be necessary , because the Bill already reflect the reality of seasonal work . for example , it allow guarantee offer for limited - term contract where appropriate , such as for task - base or time - bind role . this government do not believe the amendment be necessary , as the approach take in the Bill already protect seasonal job while ensure fair right for worker , which be why the Government decline to support this amendment . lord amendment 49 seek to require a consultation on the effect of provision in part 1 , and to ensure that at least 500 small and medium - sized business be include in the consultation . sme be the backbone of the british economy , and their insight be vital to shape policy that work in practice . that be why our approach to the implementation of the Bill include 13 target consultation , run through to 2026 . we think it be more effective and proportionate for we to engage extensively with sme , as plan through the consultation that we have describe in our road map , and to ensure that sme ' view help shape the implementation . give the comprehensive process , the Government consider that the amendment must be reject . Lords amendment 46 would have the effect of require the Secretary of State to make regulation within six month to extend the circumstance in which an employee be automatically consider to have be unfairly dismiss for whistleblowe . it would require certain employer to take responsible step to investigate whistleblowing claim . the Government do not support the amendment . we recognise that the whistleblowing framework in the Employment Rights Act 1996 may not be operate as effectively as it should be , but we believe that any reform should be consider as part of a broad assessment of that framework . that be why the Government consider that the amendment must be reject . Lords amendment 47 would insert a new clause into the Bill that relate to workplace representation . the amendment would allow worker and employee to be accompany at grievance hearing by a certify professional companion . the law already guarantee worker the right to be accompany at a disciplinary or grievance hearing by a fellow worker , a trade union representative or an official employ by a trade union . employer may allow other companion to attend formal meeting on a discretionary basis . the current law have serve worker and employee for well over two decade . it strike the right balance between fairness , flexibility and practicality , and we believe it should remain this way . lord amendment 60 seek to remove the restriction on young people age 14 to 16 work on a heritage railway or a heritage tramway from the meaning of " employment in an industrial undertaking " . the Government do not believe that this amendment be necessary . the benefit of youth volunteering in heritage railway can not be overestimate and , with proper health and safety management , it already work well . the Employment of Women , Young Persons , and Children Act 1920 do not ban youth volunteering in appropriate role on heritage railway . well - run scheme , such as the one in Swanage , show that young people can still take part safely and legally . I politely remind the Secretary of State that he be therefore advise heritage railway to in effect break the law , because that be how the law stand . if parent or a local authority be to bring an action against a heritage railway , it would find itself in such a position . if he can not change that in this legislation , I really urge he to discuss with I how to bring this forward in another way . this matter have be the source of a lot of consternation and examination in my Department . I assure the right hon . member that we have look very closely at it and believe that the exist law be fit for purpose in this case . we will proceed on that basis , but as she will have find during the time we have both be in this place , I be always happy to sit down with she , and especially , be so new in the job , so to learn about that specific case . however , we will proceed in that way because the advice be very clear on this matter . lord amendment 61 and 72 seek to remove clause 59 relate to trade union political fund from the Bill . clause 59 reverse the change introduce by the Trade Union Act 2016 , reinstate arrangement whereby union member be automatically opt in to contribute to political fund , unless they choose to opt out . this be a key step in lift the burden of the 2016 Act and return to a long - stand precedent that work for 70 year . remove clause 59 would break a clear Government commitment , which be why the Government consider that Lords amendment 61 should be reject . Lords amendment 62 seek to remove clause 65 ( 2 ) from the Bill , the effect of which would be to retain the 50 % turnout threshold requirement for industrial action ballot . the Government do not support this amendment . the Bill bring union democracy into line with other democratic mandate , include vote in this Parliament and election for each and every one of we . clause 65 be a step towards fairness and consistency in how we respect collective voice , which be why this Government consider that the amendment must be reject . Lords amendment 121 be another duplicate amendment . we agree that the school support staff negotiate body should not block employer that wish to go far than the minimum term and condition , but that be already stipulate in the Bill . the amendment duplicate the effect of propose new section 148 M ( 6 ) ( b ) , which be why the Government will be reject the amendment . I urge member to support the Government amendment before the House , include the amendment in lieu in relation to the extension of right to time off for special constable . we have listen throughout the Bill ' s passage , and we have make meaningful change where need , include on bereavement leave and non - disclosure arrangement . we will continue to listen in relation to the further work to be undertake when implement the Bill . the Employment Rights Bill be a major step forward in modernise protection and deliver on our commitment to make work pay . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak on the Bill , and I will now allow other to speak . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the new Secretary of State to his place , and congratulate he as well as the hon . member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) and for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) on their appointment . his be a vital role in Government , and it will surely be a delight and a privilege for he to champion our hard - work , innovative business in Cabinet and on the world stage as President of the Board of Trade . I particularly welcome his comment that the Government ' s priority must be to " double down " on growth and position themselves as " an active partner that deliver success , support new business and back wealth creation . " where he do that , he can be assure of our support , but if that be really his view , we should not be debate this Bill today and the Government should never have bring it forward . in fact , I well understand why Ministers may well be concern about job insecurity and last - minute shift cancellation . after all , their predecessor , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) and the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , have their own Front Bench shift today cancel by the Prime Minister with barely a week ' s notice . apparently , that boss do not even have the decency to fire they in person , but at least they can take comfort in know that with the current rate of departure from No . 10 , there will soon not be anyone leave to do the sacking . this be the wrong Bill at the wrong moment . rather than proceed with a Bill which , on the Government ' s own assessment , will reduce employment and growth , now be the time to put the national interest first . but they can not do that . the Secretary of State can not do what he himself believe , because they be too weak . they have a Prime Minister who be incapable of provide the leadership we need at this time . in time , they will come to realise that this be a moment they walk themselves to the end of a plank with an anchor tie around their foot . the business world be watch today in disbelief . only last week , it be report that hire demand among british employer have fall to a new low , with the UK recording one of the sharp slowdown in recruitment in the world . the number of unemployed have rise by around 200 , 000 people already on the Government ' s watch . the Institute of Directors report that business confidence have fall to its low point in two year . the Chancellor have decline to repeat her clear assurance , give previously to the CBI , that the Government will not come forward " with more borrowing or more taxis " . there be a backlog at the employment tribunal — the Secretary of State do not it mention once — of 491 , 000 open case at the last count . the five large business organisation , almost without precedent , have write jointly that the Bill will have " deeply damaging implication for the Government ' s priority growth mission " . we have just hear the Secretary of State reject even the amendment that might have mitigate the bad of the harm . these be not unreasonable amendment ; they be not partisan amendment . almost all have cross - party support , include from the Government ' s own party in the other place . they be the result of consultation with business , and careful consideration and week of debate in the other place . it will be a bad day for democracy if right hon . and hon . member vote against they today . before they have to account to their constituent , I strongly urge they to study exactly what it be they will be vote against . lord amendment 23 and amendment 106 to 120 have a core purpose of stop this country slip into the rate of youth unemployment see in other european country , where get a first chance feel more like a lottery than a smooth passage into the workforce . Labour member often like to cast themselves as the party of social mobility , but the reality be that if they remove probation period — the chance for an employer to take a chance on somebody — they will kill social mobility . the debate in the other place highlight the impact of not have a qualifying period not just on business , but the police and GPs . no proposal have be accept by the Government that reconcile the promise to introduce a day one right to claim unfair dismissal with a commitment to a light - touch process for probation . at this stage , the only way to avoid undermine the Government ' s 80 % employment target be to accept the Lords amendment that reduce that period . do the shadow Minister understand the difference between fair dismissal and unfair dismissal ? the shadow Minister absolutely understand that . he do so and understand the implication of clause 23 from have speak to make UK , the CBI , the Institute of Directors , the British Chambers of Commerce and the Federation of Small Businesses , all of whom urge the Government to rethink on this clause . business do not recognise a process that end in a full legal tribunal , flank by lawyer , after typically a two - year wait and lose management time , as light - touch . legal fee alone for defend an unfair dismissal case range from £ 15 , 000 to £ 20 , 000 . do the hon . Gentleman not recognise that very few case end up in a tribunal , particularly at a point where all due process happen ? not all dismissal be unfair . of course not all dismissal be unfair , but if it be not a process that end up in court or in a tribunal , we would not be face a backlog of 491 , 000 individual with current open case — by the Government ' s own figure — and business organisation would not be cite legal fee in that order of magnitude . one reason that so many of those case do not end up in a tribunal be that business , cognisant of the loss of management time and £ 15 , 000 to £ 20 , 000 in fee , simply pay up rather than contest . my right hon . friend , with his experience , be exactly right . just think about the impact on a small business of a fee of that magnitude and the length of time it take to get justice . what be go to happen ? this be a really important point . those on the Government Benches will be live this reality over the remainder of their term , and they will have to account for it . business will be discourage from hire anybody without a perfect cv and a prove track record of work . who be we talk about ? we be talk about young people , people with dyslexia and related condition , and people with a period of inactivity on their cv — such as former prisoner seek a second chance to go straight . those will be the victim of that particular measure . Labour Ministers should realise that they will be the first victim of disagree with Lords amendment 62 . the long - stand principle here be a simple one : we should not be allow strike to be call when a majority of union member have not even vote , let alone vote in favour . a strike could still proceed with just over a quarter of those eligible . oppose this amendment will guarantee that union be hold hostage by a militant minority who force strike even when the union ' s own member do not support one . we can ill afford more strike that crush growth , prevent worker from get to work and endanger life , and the public will not forget the change that this Government seek to make . amendment 61 be a Cross - Bench Lords amendment that would maintain a consensus arrive at by the Trade Union Political Funds and Political Party Funding Committee — that only those who actively choose to contribute to a political fund opt in to do so . this be a basic principle that the Government have apply to service everywhere else in the economy , from beauty box , gym and meditation app to Netflix and newspaper subscription . why should Britain ' s worker not enjoy the same right ? the only conceivable reason — it bring shame on anyone who vote against the amendment — be to swell the coffer of one political party . lord amendment 47 , on the right to be accompany , try to finally level the play field for the 80 % of worker who be not in a union , but should have the same right as trade union member to be support in a disciplinary or grievance hearing . by vote against this modest but important reform , Labour be preserve what be essentially a closed shop that union use to push people who do not want to join into do so . we scrap the closed shop decade ago , and no one should be bring it back as a means of pressure vulnerable worker into pay into union coffer . will the hon . member give way ? I will happily give way if the hon . Gentleman will talk about the other organisation that will do a brilliant job of represent employee . well , that wouldn ' t be the Tory party , would it , Madam Deputy Speaker ? what the shadow Secretary of State seem not to understand be that worker can not turn up to a trade union and go , " I ' ve get a problem . can I join and get representation , please ? " . almost every union in this country require a qualifying period to get the representation he talk about — the idea that this be a closed shop be just nonsense . the hon . Member have probably wilfully misinterpret what I say . I be talk about the right for individual to be represent by a trade union or by a qualified professional from another domain , such as a qualified lawyer . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? of course I will give way to the hon . gentleman — we be miss he already . I be glad to be back . the shadow Secretary of State just talk about legal fee for firm when it come to defend tribunal case . if the right to be accompany be expand to include lawyer , the response of firm will be , " we have well get a lawyer too " , and that will just put up cost , will it not ? the hon . Member have do a great deal of work on the Bill , and it be a great shame that he be cut short in his prime , but with respect the point be about choice for the individual . in many case , the long - stand right will be to be represent by a trade union , but it could also be a mediator or a qualified professional in any other domain . the point be not to extinguish that choice , which be absolutely — he will know this — what the amendment would do . the Bill — from a Government who in too many domain be now tolerant of a two - tier system — create a two - tier system for worker ’ right . lord amendment 1 be a typical example of where the Government do not understand or have fail to listen to business , particularly hospitality and seasonal business . what start as an attempt to ban zero - hour contract have morph into a chain around the neck of both employer and worker . the Government will no doubt cry about unintended consequence when the time come , but I can tell they now that the consequence will be clear , and a cacophony of business group such as UK Hospitality , the British Retail Consortium and the Federation of Small Businesses have explain this precisely to they . I gently say that if the Government feel so strongly about zero - hour contract , the good way of put their own house in order would be to start with tackle precisely those that operate in the armed force reserve . lord amendment 48 would protect the countless business across the country that rely directly on seasonal work . from the coast of Devon and Cornwall to Great Yarmouth , and from the Secretary of State ' s and my own county of Sussex to Ayrshire , there be million of worker employ in seasonal industry . seasonal work often take place in community that be heavily reliant on tourism , both foreign and domestic , and that be compete in a competitive international market . the Government have already take an axe to the hospitality and retail industry with the removal of relief . the amendment would be a very good way of go in some direction to support they . in oppose Lords amendment 49 , the Government be show their commitment to ignore small business above all other . the Secretary of State say that he want to listen to business , and I take he at his word , but why then oppose this amendment , which would codify precisely that ? countless small business will have a real challenge in deal with this Bill , which be now 330 page of red tape . why on earth would the Government put their member through the Lobby to oppose listen and consult with small business ? we support Lords amendment 60 , which have cross - party support , at the behest of million of those who enjoy heritage railway attraction . if the Secretary of State have not yet make it to the Amberley museum , which be not that far from his constituency — [ interruption . ] he know of it ? well , he be welcome to come and visit and listen to how the volunteer who be gain valuable experience will be affect . I be perplex about why the Government be so opposed to Lords amendment 46 on the protection of whistleblower . it be genuinely confusing . time and again Ministers on both side of this House have come to the Dispatch Box to talk about government scandal . we have see brave people in organisation try to speak up and raise their concern , only to have they dismiss . the Government claim that the Bill be about worker ’ right yet seem to have zero interest in protect worker who try to reveal serious problem in the private and public sector . I urge all colleague to read that for themselves and to make up their own mind on where they think the right place to be be . good luck to those who vote against that entirely reasonable amendment , which would protect people who do the right thing , and then have to try to explain to their constituent why they do so . the Conservatives remain firmly opposed to all the damaging measure in the Bill , which we have fight at every reading . we will reverse its most destructive measure , because we want to get more young people into work and we believe that the Bill will do precisely the opposite . this Bill be not really about worker ’ right , because the majority of its clause relate to trade union right . I hope that Labour Members will properly declare their interest when they rise to speak . worker have nothing to gain from more strike and more disruption last long and with short notice period . their life will not be improve by police banter in pub or have their wage default into political fund for far - left cause . above all , more right on paper help no one who have not get a job . we understand the fundamental truth that it be the private sector that create growth and that business create job , and that it be the socialism we see from Labour that kill they . these be reasonable amendment . the Bill have have a great deal of scrutiny in the other House . I believe the Secretary of State be sincere in want growth in our economy and show business that he do understand it , but rather than read out the script that official write for he , he ought to be stand up and talk about the amendment that he will support . the opposition will always act in the national interest , which be why we will support the Lords amendment . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include an election donation from the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and my membership of the Unite and GMB union . I welcome the Bill ' s return to the House and the opportunity to consider the amendment make in the other place . I also welcome the new Secretary of State to his place and thank he for his kind word . I also welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , to her ministerial position — undoubtedly the good job in Government — and wish she every success in that role . I know that she will be a champion for worker and that she will be commit to introduce the " make work pay " agenda in full , as we promise in our manifesto . I be speak a few row back from where I have expect to be today . the shadow Secretary of State mention get a short - notice cancellation payment — I be afraid that have not wing its way to I yet . however , I be delighted to be speak in any capacity , because this Bill really be what a Labour Government should be deliver on . I be able , alongside my right hon . friend the Members for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , to take the new deal for work people — a policy programme carefully develop in opposition — and turn it into legislation that be lay before the House within 100 day of take office , as we promise we would . while I start my ministerial role as I end it — fire with enthusiasm — my hope for the meaningful change that the Bill can deliver remain undimmed . that we be here enter the Bill ' s final stage be testament to the hard work and dedication of those who develop the policy programme both in opposition and in government . I place on record my thank to those in the Department for Business and Trade who help shape those manifesto commitment into the Bill . I also pay tribute to Baroness Jones of Whitchurch , who do a sterling job of guide the legislation through the other place amid intense scrutiny and opposition , which of course we will talk about . I will not go through every Lords amendment ; I will just pick out a few of those I consider to be most damaging and undermine of the intention that we set out in our manifesto about how we will rebalance the workplace to make it work for ordinary people . first , Lords amendment 1 completely undermine the principle , set out in our manifesto , of ban exploitative zero - hour contract . the amendment would water down the commitment we give to provide worker with an offer of a guarantee - hour contract to a right to request guarantee hour . there have long be a misunderstanding — perhaps a wilful misunderstanding — of how the policy operate . it do not prevent those who want to remain on zero - hour contract from continue to do so , and neither do it prevent employer from hire seasonal worker . it simply provide the opportunity for those who want certainty about the hour they work , week to week and month to month , to have guarantee hour . we understand that not everyone will take advantage of that , but it might just be a lifeline for those who struggle to balance fix cost such as bill , housing and childcare by take out the stress of the potential variation that we see so often in zero - hour contract at the moment . this be a very good thing for the Government to be do , because one of the key principle in the Bill be the need to restore security and dignity at work , which would be damage by the amendment . I understand that the noble Lords argue that the wording of the amendment would prevent employer from reject guarantee - hour request . it be present as a reasonable compromise that achieve the same outcome , maintain worker ’ right to guarantee hour while remove the employer ' s requirement to make offer . I disagree with that analysis . it shift the right from one that be passively apply to one that have to be actively invoke by worker . this mean that an individual would have to know their right and have the confidence to approach their employer in order to benefit from they . as the Secretary of State say , those work on zero - hour contract be some of the least empower worker in this country , their contract be inherently precarious , and those work on they be more likely to be young , work part time and in low - pay sector . there be plenty of example out there of how the allocation of hour have be use by management as a tool of control and , in some case , a tool of abuse . the Bill already set out a number of anti - avoidance measure , because we know that that massive power imbalance have to be address , and this amendment would fatally undermine all that good work . I have similar concern about Lords amendment 6 and 7 , which seek to impose 48 hour as a reasonable notice period . if pass , these amendment would remove any chance for worker or employer to make representation in a consultation process , and instead force an arbitrary cut - off of 48 hour . throughout my time as a Minister , we be commit to consult widely on change and incorporate the feedback we receive into our approach . I remember the Conservatives complain during the original passage of the Bill that we be not consult enough , yet now they lend their support to amendment that would chop that consultation off entirely . that say , I must welcome the comment from Opposition Front Benchers in the other place , who indicate that they support the principle of compensation for cancel or curtail shift . I note that Lord Hunt of Wirral say : " we be fully in agreement that worker deserve reasonable notice of shift . that be a fair and modern expectation . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 14 July 2025 ; Vol . 847 , c . 1612 . ] quite how that fit with the Tory pledge to scrap the entire Bill , I do not know . of course , it be to be expect , as night follow day , that they will object to measure that improve the right of work people , but that would mean scrap thing that I think even they support , include end non - disclosure agreement for victim of sexual harassment , a new right for bereavement leave for those who have suffer a pregnancy loss , and finally an end to fire and rehire , which they do so much to condemn while in government but do nothing of substance to deal with . that be the conservative position on this , and it be something that the british people will completely and wholeheartedly reject . lord amendment 23 relate to unfair dismissal , which be something I know rather a lot about . it seek to impose a six - month qualifying period for unfair dismissal right rather than day one right , which everyone on the Labour Benches have campaign for . this be another brazen attempt by the other place to remove a clear manifesto commitment . I and other Labour Members be elect on a mandate to introduce basic right , include unfair dismissal right , from day one . how can we allow people who essentially have a job for life to prevent million of people in this country from get basic employment protection on day one ? it be fundamentally wrong that worker can currently be treat so disposably , and that they can be dismiss arbitrarily with no legal recourse for two year . this be about fairness . a worker deserve to be treat with dignity , fairness and respect , no matter how long they have work for an employer . I commend my hon . friend for the work that he have do and that the Department continue to do on this . one of the interesting thing about this provision be that , in 2013 , the Conservatives change the period from 12 month to 24 month . they increase the amount of time that people be in an insecure position in the workplace . it be essential that we support work family and work people , so do he agree that this be absolutely the right step forward ? I certainly do . in my conversation with employer , I do not come across any who be prepared to defend the status quo of a two - year qualifying period for unfair dismissal , because they recognise that be an awfully long time to be in employment without any protection at all . the Government be sensitive to concern about hire , however , and we have include provision in the Bill to establish a statutory probationary period during which an employee ' s performance and suitability can be establish , and a light - touch dismissal procedure will apply during that time . this will mean that , to coin a phrase , if a new hire be not work out , an employer will be able to follow a light - touch procedure to dismiss they fairly . but crucially , there will still have to be a process ; there can not be an arbitrary dismissal without explanation , as happen far too often now . we know that recruit someone be an expensive and time - consume business , if it be do properly , so why would we not expect the same care and attention to be put into determine whether someone have a future in the business at all ? this country , to our shame , have one of the least regulate approach to dismissal protection in the OECD , leave an estimate 9 million worker vulnerable to dismissal without protection . how can someone plan their life , make financial commitment and so forth if they can be sack at the drop of a hat ? we believe that this must change . People deserve great security and dignity at work , and they deserve to be treat fairly , not just as disposable commodity . this Bill strike the right balance , and although much of the detail be to be determine by consultation and regulation — I will come back to that later — it send an important message that we will not accept the race to the bottom any more and that dignity and security at work start from day one . that be the lodestone of what a Labour Government should be about . I be delighted that the Bill be on track to become law in a matter of week . it be a landmark piece of legislation that will end the race to the bottom and provide the big uplift in worker ’ right in a generation . we on the labour side have long be clear that it will benefit everyone across the country . it will be good for worker and it will be good for business . pass this Bill be not , of course , the end of the matter . there be so much more that need to be do outside the Bill , particularly on finally end the industrial - scale exploitation that be bogus self - employment . we can not have a Bill that massively increase protection for million of people at work but fail to address the grow scandal of a deliberate manipulation of the law to deny people the same basic protection . over the come year , there will be a range of secondary legislation , code of practice and guidance issue to implement the Bill ' s provision . I wish the new Minister every success in work through and navigate the 80 or so statutory instrument that will be need to ensure that the Bill be implement in full and that we stick to the road map that be publish early in the summer . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment that the road map remain in place in full . however , give the volume and complexity of all this — the detail of the consultation , the scope of the regulation , the language in the code of practice and even the commencement date — it go without say that there be plenty of opportunity for those who do not want to see worker ’ right improve in this country to chip away at the strong baseline that the Bill represent , and of course it be far easy to do that in some stuffy Committee Room away from the main Chamber . I do not think that be the Minister ' s intention , but I be not sure that everyone share our enthusiasm for improve the right of million of work people , so we will all be look at this closely and encourage the Minister to keep to our manifesto commitment that we all believe so strongly in . on that point , I know how enthusiastic Labour Members be about the Bill , and how enthusiastic many of the people we represent be about it , so let we see that enthusiasm replicate across the whole of Government . what well way to demonstrate that we be still the party of work people , and what well way to show that democratic politic can still make a difference than by champion the many way that this Bill will improve people ' s life ? from the shop worker on a zero - hour contract who for the first time will have a right to guarantee hour , to the social care assistant whose voice will finally be hear through a national negotiating body , to the warehouse operative who will be able to have a trade union collectively bargain on their behalf , this Bill can be the antidote to the politic of division and despair . let we not be timid in our backing of improved employment right . let we not apologise for at last restore balance to the workplace . let we be confident , and commit to all the good thing the Bill can achieve , and let we shout they from the rooftop . this Bill be Labour at its good . it show we what can be do when the broad experience and the voice of our movement be harness together to deliver change . I be proud that I play my part in that , and I will do all I can to ensure that we deliver on the promise we make to the british people to truly make sure that work pay . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , and to hear his passion for the Bill ; I wish he every success . I also welcome the new Secretary of State for Business and Trade to his place . I look forward to oppose he . the Liberal Democrats support many of the Bill ' s aim . we have long call for employment right to be strengthen in several way , include by boost statutory sick pay , strengthen support for whistleblower and increase support for carer . there be a lot in the Bill that we support in principle , and that move the country in the right direction . however , we remain concerned about how many of the measure will be implement . we must ensure that the legislation strike the right balance for both employee and business . some of our worry arise from the extent to which crucial detail have be leave to secondary legislation , or will be subject to consultation . that do not facilitate stability and certainty for business or worker , and it preclude long - term planning . that will particularly impact small business , start - up business and those business look to grow . that be why we be supportive of , for example , the amendment that set the qualifying period for unfair dismissal claim at six month ; that would create certainty for business . any new measure to support worker must go hand in hand with much - need reform to support our small business , which provide employment . those reform include reform of the break business rate system , a removal of trade barrier , and proper reform of the apprenticeship levy . I be in favour of Lords amendment 1 , which would change the obligation to offer guarantee hour to a right to request they . the Liberal Democrats have long stand for give zero - hour worker security about their working pattern , and we be deeply concerned that too many zero - hour worker struggle with unstable income , job insecurity and difficulty in planning for the future . however , we also recognise that many value the flexibility that such arrangement provide . many young people and those balance care responsibility alongside work value adaptability in their shift pattern . it be therefore important to strike a balance that ensure that worker can have security and flexibility . I speak to a hospital catering worker in my constituency who be contract to work 12 hour a week , but she regularly work 36 hour a week . however , when she take annual leave , she be pay for 12 hour a week . do the hon . Lady not think that this catering worker deserve the respect of actually be pay for the hour she work , and of have a contract for the hour she work ? if the hon . Lady support Lords amendment 1 , the catering worker would have a right to request , and could get the certainty she require . the amendment would very much offer that right , which she currently do not have , but it would also mean there be no requirement on the employer to maintain record , and the employer would not have the administrative burden of be force to offer those hour to worker in the industry who do not require such flexibility . that be why we think the amendment strike the right balance . we strongly support the principle of enable worker to obtain fix - hour contract , but we have concern about the implementation method propose in the Bill . small business have highlight that have to offer employee fix - hour contract on a rolling basis could impose significant administrative burden . many small employer lack human resource or legal department , and the change could be a significant cost for those with limited resource . that would compound other challenge , such as the recent increase in employer ' national insurance contribution and the fallout from the previous Government ' s damage Brexit deal . in the retail and hospitality sector , part - time and entry - level role be often take up by young people look for flexible hour , people with caring responsibility , and other who may not want to make long - term work commitment . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) offer a compelling example of a zero - hour contract give someone what they require from work . for all those group , flexibility be key . the amendment be in line with our long - stand manifesto commitment to give zero - hour and agency worker the right to request fix - hour contract — a right that employer could not refuse unreasonably . the measure would maintain a flexibility that benefit both party , whereas an obligation to offer guarantee hour impose a significant burden , which do not benefit either party . we be clear that employee should be support to exercise this right — and all employment right — without fear of any negative consequence in their workplace , and we be pleased that the Government have take step to set up a unified Fair Work Agency . we hope that the Government will look into our other proposal — for example , the proposal to give zero - hour worker a 20 % high minimum wage to compensate they for the uncertainty of fluctuate hour . the amendment strike a balance between security for worker and flexibility for employer . much of the contention about the Bill relate to the lack of detail and clarity around key definition , which make it hard for business and employer to plan . that be why I also wish to speak in favour of Lords amendment 8 , which would define a short - notice cancellation as a cancellation with 48 hour ' notice . that provide a workable balance . it give employer clarity , while ensure that worker be compensate when shift be cancel late . do the hon . Member agree that fair notice may be relative to the industry we be talk about ? what be fair notice in , say , the retail sector may be completely different from what be fair notice for someone work on an offshore oil rig . no , I do not think so . forty - eight hour be a reasonable amount of notice in any sector . that be the kind of notice that enable , for example , parent to rearrange childcare , or other member of the family to rearrange their shift . the 48 hour be a proper definition of reasonable notice , and 48 hour be 48 hour , whether you work on an oil rig or in a shop . I disagree that it be context - dependent . I be passionate about ensure that single parent can enter the workforce , and a big barrier to that be childcare . when think about which amendment the hon . Member will support , have she discuss the matter with any organisation represent single parent ? forty - eight hour do not seem like a lot of time . as someone with a long history of have to arrange childcare at short notice , I be well aware of the limitation that need to arrange childcare present , particularly for work woman , both those who be single parent and those in a relationship . forty - eight hour be not ideal , but it be a reasonable compromise , and it be absolutely vital that employer have clarity about what " reasonable notice " look like in this circumstance . I wish to speak in favour of Lords amendment 48 . business , particularly those in the hospitality sector , that rely on seasonal worker be particularly vulnerable to change in labour regulation and the knock - on impact on the cost and availability of labour . the sustainability of farming business , for example , depend on be able to get the right people to the right place at the right time , and obstacle to that can have a big impact on ability to generate produce for sale , and therefore on the sustainability of the business . if we allow a different set of regulation to apply to seasonal work , a clear definition of " seasonal work " must be create to prevent employer from avoid their legitimate responsibility by claim seasonal work in inappropriate circumstance . while we do not believe that this legislation should create contrast employment law requirement for business , we continue to defend the principle that business should be properly consider when secondary legislation be create , so I urge member to support the amendment . lord amendment 46 , table by my good friend and Richmond Park predecessor Baroness Kramer , would introduce protection for whistleblower . it follow her long - stand campaign for support for whistleblower , and I pay tribute to her commitment to the cause . there be no standard requirement for most company to have a whistleblowing policy . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill would be a good opportunity to put in place real protection for whistleblower who try to highlight crime , danger and malpractice in the workplace ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the current framework for whistleblowe apply only if somebody have lose their job . it do not address the duty on business to follow up whistleblower ' serious concern about crime . that urgently need to be address . too many whistleblower who raise serious concern about matter range from fraud to patient safety be ignore by their employer , or be reticent to speak out because of fear of unfair repercussion . the new clause in Lords amendment 46 have receive the support of numerous international civil society organisation , include Protect and Spotlight on Corruption . it would be a long - overdue update to our once world - lead whistleblowing legislation , and I urge colleague from across the House to support the change . I support Lords amendment 47 , which would expand the right to be accompany to employment hearing to include certify professional companion . currently , employee may be accompany only by certify trade union representative , leave many worker to navigate proceeding alone . although trade union provide valuable support to their member , only 22 % of worker be in a trade union , include only 12 % of private sector worker , with recent figure at a record low . the current provision make sense at a time when trade union membership be high nationally , but those provision have become largely outdated as trade union membership have fall and the labour market have modernise . without the amendment , we consign many employee face unfair dismissal to navigate the requirement of disciplinary hearing on their own , without any kind of professional or educated support . do the hon . Lady agree that the good protection against unfair dismissal be trade union membership ? no , I do not . I think that people should have the freedom not to join a trade union if that be what they wish , not least because their trade union contribution might go to a party that they do not vote for . many profession these day be well represent not by trade union that cover a whole range of different employment category but by professional body . as an accountant , I be a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants . have I be face a disciplinary in relation to my professional duty , I would have be much well represent by a fellow member of that body than by a trade union . I be a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development . professional body be there to set the standard of the profession . do the hon . Lady not recognise the conflict of interest that could arise from the professional body represent an employee at a disciplinary hearing when it have to uphold the standard of the profession ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s point , but a fellow qualified accountant would be well able to advise somebody face a disciplinary than an official from a general trade union , who would not necessarily understand the point in dispute . the hon . Lady make good point in some part of her speech , but not in other . the point of a trade union representative — or any representative who go with an individual to a disciplinary process — be not to advise on the particular of the worker ' s skillset , but to ensure that process be follow and the worker ' s right be protect . I fully understand what she say about accountancy , but be there people in her professional organisation who can give her employment right advice ? disciplinarie relate to employee ' right , not their professional skillset . as the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) have say , that have not be a requirement for professional body , but if we create the right for suitably qualified professional to accompany employee , I fully expect that those body would go on to develop that capability . it be surely up to an employee to decide whether they want a fellow professional or a trade union official to protect and defend their interest . they should have the opportunity to make that choice for themselves . the Liberal Democrats also support the retention of the opt - in system for contribution to trade union political fund . we believe in maximise choice and transparency for individual in relation to the political fund to which they contribute . we therefore oppose measure that would make it an opt - out system . on trade union , I also support the amendment on retain the 50 % ballot threshold requirement for trade union to undertake industrial action . the Government ' s proposal in the Bill would remove that threshold entirely , mean that a trade union could vote in favour of take strike action without that be vote for by a majority of eligible voter . strike in the NHS have have a significant impact on address waiting list and backlog . we believe that there need to be a threshold of at least 50 % ; there should be majority support from the workforce before that amount of disruption can be create . I refer to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my support of the trade union . on the threshold , do my hon . friend agree that those who choose to abstain should be count as " no " vote ? I be slightly surprised to be refer to as " hon . friend " , not least because I be probably go to disagree with the hon . Gentleman . to undertake such massive action , include in the NHS , and on the tube — we see the level of disruption that that cause the public last week — there need to be a positive vote in favour of strike action , which be why I back this amendment . you haven ' t understand my point . I be happy to take another intervention . I simply mean that if there be a threshold of 50 % and it be not meet , be those who do not participate in the ballot class as " no " vote ? be that correct ? it be pretty simple . I think the point that the hon . Gentleman be make be that people who do not express a view either way should be count as vote against . what I be say be that in order to justify the level of disruption that strike action have cause recently , it be important that a trade union can demonstrate that it have majority support from its workforce . that be why I support the amendment . we believe that the current threshold for strike action be suitable , and that make it easy to strike risk put further pressure on public service and damage the economy , as we see last week with the disruption across the capital cause by the tube strike . Most employer be responsible business that want to do the right thing by their staff , and many of they support the aim of the Bill . however , they have significant concern about the lack of clarity and the propose implementation process . so much of the detail of the legislation be still undecided and will compound the challenge that small business be face — from the Government ' s change to employer ' national insurance and the reduction in business rate relief , to the absence of any meaningful action to bring down commercial energy price . we must find a way to support and provide clarity for business that be try to plan ahead . the Liberal Democrats support many aim of the Bill and the spirit of measure that strengthen employment right , but we will support the Lords amendment that will help to ensure that the legislation strike the right balance for worker and business . I welcome the Government amendment , and thank those who have steer the legislation to this point . this be a generational upgrade in employment right , and as a Labour MP , I be very proud to support it . it be a landmark shift in some way — a declaration that in modern Britain , hard work should be reward with decent , stable work , security , dignity and fairness . have work in the private and public sector at different time in my life , I believe that the Bill strike a fair balance between the workplace right of the individual and the right of the employer . that be why I welcome the extensive consultation that the Government have undertake with the private sector and with trade union and other organisation . I be a member of USDAW — the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — and the National Education Union and have proudly represent and speak for they in my career to date . I wish to speak about a number of the Opposition Lords amendment and my concern about they in short order . I have concern about Lords amendment 1 . zero - hour contract have allow people to be trap by insecure work , low pay and one - sided flexibility . I know from speak to shop worker in my constituency that they have not be able to plan ahead with their finance because of the unscrupulous nature of some work relationship with employer . that have leave family unable to plan their weekly shopping and childcare as well as their future , especially in respect of secure loan and other financial settlement . it have become a way for employer to manage down by allow too many people to take very short hour and then not allow they to gain other form of employment . the Government ' s measure to ensure zero - hour contract be control — where the individual can request zero - hour contract but there be an onus on the employer to support guarantee hour — strike the correct balance . I therefore reject Lords amendment 1 as the Government ' s measure strike a fair balance between the employee request and the employer give . lord amendment 23 , 106 and 120 relate to sensible change on unfair dismissal . as have be mention , under the last Government the unfair dismissal provision be set at 12 month and that be extend to two year under the current Government . this do not take into account the fact that many who be subject to unfair dismissal might have be work for the employer for a significant period and also be subject to paternity leave , parental leave and other type of support . we should be support people with secure provision in work , and I believe that six month be a fair period in which most employer would be able to grade that assessment . I do not accept Lords amendment 48 on seasonal work . it would add a loophole by which employer could exploit worker . the Bill pay due regard to the reality of seasonal work , both at Christmas and in farming and other type of practice , and I would welcome consultation on such provision continue . on political fund , I urge colleague to reject Lords amendment 61 and 72 . we must return to a model that have work for over 70 year where people choose to opt out of political fund , because secure employment right be one of the endeavour of a trade union . the trade union be set up to secure right for employee , and seek to achieve that be one of their political endeavour . I have concern about Lords amendment 62 . the Conservatives complain about the 50 % threshold but they do not adopt that in their former leadership election , and perhaps it will not be the threshold in their leadership election to come in the next six month . if they adopt their recommend 50 % threshold of member , we might not see a replacement . if they can not use it for their own internal process , that raise question about why other should be make to do so . I also encourage the Government to consider online balloting as a next necessary step . we do online balloting for many of our leadership process and it be a sensible way forward , as well as other form of engagement by post . as a former teacher , I do not support Lords amendment 121 . negotiation should be conduct in a fair way and the Bill cover that , prevent one - sided correspondence between teacher and their professional body . as a former special constable , while I accept Lords amendment 21 in principle in support our special constable on the ground , that should not just be for a single group of people but should be consider for other , perhaps include carer and other support worker . I welcome the Government ' s review of employee ' right to take time off ; that be the most sensible approach . on balance , I be not surprised that the Conservatives and other do not support the Bill — I and other have write as USDAW mps . I believe that we should support a balanced approach between employee and employer . I welcome the work the Government and former Ministers have do to that end . the Bill strike a fair balance between those who work in the private and public sector and the obligation employer be to offer , which be why I will be support the Government tonight . I be grateful to have the opportunity to speak to two specific Lords amendment propose in turn by Lord Burns and Lord Sharpe in the other place . while address different clause , both amendment essentially come down to the same principle : defend fairness , transparency and democratic legitimacy against narrow sectional interest . on Lords amendment 61 , in 2016 , after long and at time fraught debate , Parliament reach a carefully construct settlement on the question of trade union political fund . that settlement be not only fair and balanced but , crucially , be broadly accept by all side . the compromise be a simple one : it result in new member contribute to a union ' s political fund only if that member give their active , informed consent . in contrast , exist member be leave untouched and , importantly , union be require to remind all member annually of their right to change their decision . this be both a fair and a balanced settlement . it be not a carve - up ; it be a genuine compromise . it respect both the collective strength of union and the personal liberty of individual . yet what do we see now ? we see a Government seek to dismantle that settlement , and the result be a return to an era where consent be assume and where individual find themselves support cause they do not share simply because the rule make it cumbersome to say otherwise . that be not a positive reform ; it be regression . in every walk of life — whether a subscription service , an insurance policy , or a mobile phone contract — the public quite properly expect clarity in respect of the term they be commit to . why should those standard of fairness be cast aside when it come to political fund of union closely bind to the govern party ? lord amendment 62 deal with the threshold for industrial action . strike have consequence . we have see that only in the last week , with transport link across London bring to a standstill , commute drastically prolong , and the consequential significant disruption to people ' s day - to - day life . as a former doctor who , I should point out , do not go on strike in year go by , I have see at first hand the consequence of medic take industrial action : operation cancel ; out - patient appointment postpone ; and the provision of healthcare delay . when the livelihood and wellbeing of citizen up and down this country be so significantly impact , it be neither unreasonable nor undesirable that such action rest upon a clear majority . the 50 % threshold be precisely that safeguard . it serve as a clear assurance that industrial action have broad legitimacy and be not just the preserve of a militant minority . yet this Government seek to sweep away that protection by vote down this very sensible and consider improvement to the legislation . both these amendment remind we that democracy depend upon consent , transparency and legitimacy . those value have be the bedrock of Britain for generation . it would be a poor bargain indeed if they be set aside to placate the financial and political interest of a narrow few . I rise to speak to new clause 22 , which will ban the use of non - disclosure agreement in case of harassment and discrimination . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) who do remarkable work in push this huge Employment Rights Bill through in a relatively short space of time . I be incredibly grateful for their support and hard work . I also place on the record my thank to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) who have work on this issue over many year , and to the countless other campaigner in both Houses who have not stop until this legislation be to become law . without doubt , however , today ' s victory will belong to the brave victim and survivor who have repeatedly speak up and risk legal challenge and financial ruin by speak out and challenge wrongdoing when they have see it in their workplace . first and foremost among they be Zelda Perkins , who be with we today in the Under - Gallery . she set in train the # MeToo movement by bravely break her NDA with notorious abuser Harvey Weinstein . her tireless campaigning since have change the law in the US , Canada , New Zealand and Ireland . today , when we vote on this legislation , the UK will begin to have the most comprehensive law on nda anywhere in the world . I know that the whole House will stand with she today to thank she for her campaigning , and the countless people who have have their life ruin by the misuse of nda . this law will have a direct impact on million of life . victim will no long be silence , their abuse ignore or perpetrator protect . last time we debate the issue in the House , we speak about the trade union , charity and medium organisation that routinely misuse nda to cover up wrongdoing . simply no part of our economy or workforce be immune from this practice , which ruin life — from the victim of rape I speak to who be ban from speak about her experience with medical professional , to the disabled journalist who be bully out of his organisation and be now unable to tell prospective employer about his experience . he be now unemployed and homeless . as enormous as the new protection will be to individual who have be affect or who could be affect in the future , the far big prize on offer through the Bill be the wholesale culture change that it will bring about . the widespread misuse of nda have sustain an environment where abuse and discrimination have be cover up , where silence have be buy , and where perpetrator be protect while victim be push aside . it have perpetuate and protect toxic workplace culture and have allow systemic and institutional abuse to be ignore . where harassment and discrimination take place in the future , employer will have to address they head on . abuser will have to face up to their wrongdoing and victim will not be the one force out of their job . today ' s legislation could not be more important , so I thank the new ministerial team for their continue commitment to it and for their agreement to new clause 22 stay in the Bill . as so much in the Bill , however , implementation will be as important as the primary legislation on the statute book . I will therefore be grateful if the Secretary of State , when he wind up , could confirm when the Government will launch the consultation attach to the new clause ? exactly what will the Government consult on ? what will be the exact date for commencement of this important provision ? I will finish by draw the House ' s attention to a case that starkly prove the need for this legislation and that have not be public since March this year . member and those watch our proceeding may have read the book " Careless People " by Sarah Wynn - Williams , a shocking expos é of the workplace culture at Meta , its practice in Myanmar and China , and how it have target teenager in emotional distress to push consumer product on they in their dark hour . despite previous public statement that Meta no long use nda in case of sexual harassment — which Sarah have repeatedly allege — she be be push to financial ruin through the arbitration system in the UK , as Meta seek to silence and punish she for speak out . Meta have serve a gag order on Sarah and be attempt to fine her $ 50 , 000 for every breach of that order . she be on the verge of bankruptcy . I be sure that the whole House and the Government will stand with Sarah as we pass this legislation to ensure that whistleblower and those with the moral courage to speak out be always protect . sadly , we be not here to relitigate this entire Bill , which be so wide in scope and impact , and yet so skimpy in detail , have be cobble together for a headline under Labour ' s " first 100 day " banner . I refer the House to Lords amendment 61 , which without doubt will be dash aside as Labour seek to salvage something , anything , as a legacy for its depose red queen , the former Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , whose Bill this very much remain . lord amendment 61 would reinstate the requirement for trade union member to opt in to contribute to the political fund . incredibly , Labour Members , who bristle at commercial subscription that rely on consumer inertia , will likely vote down this sensible and proportionate change . the reason why demonstrate the wide issue with the Bill . the left ' s hive mind aside , the Bill be a love letter to the union — a thank you for all the support . labour have be buy with union gold , with donation total almost £ 40 million since the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) take the helm of his party . it mean that the Bill be payback for the union , all the time masquerade as a fillip for the work class . we know how important that working - class concept be for the Labour party from watch the candidate for the vacant deputy leadership engage in a " proli than thou " contest , with hairshirt - and - gravel shade of Monty Python ' s " Four Yorkshiremen " sketch throw in . in reality , the Bill have little to do with actual working - class people , and the Labour party have no monopoly on they in their rank . instead , the Bill do rather more for what be sometimes call the " boutique left " — the trade union apparatchik and their ilk . the Bill only make sense if we see it through the skewed prism of every employer be a robber baron and every union organiser a saint . it do nothing for all those who will struggle to find a job in the first place , as its granting of day one right will give company — already face big bill thank to employer national insurance contribution rise — pause for thought . other amendment fight a rearguard action with a sensible six - month qualification period . the Bill mean that union be go to party like it be 1979 — but they should have a care . in ' 79 , restive union trigger strike after strike , sound the death knell for both their own unfettered power and for the Labour Government . lord amendment 62 address the threshold for strike action , mean that 50 % of eligible member would have to vote for action . be the union not well be sure of the complete backing of their member before light the picket - line brazier ? again , the union should learn the lesson of the past . next year mark a century since the general strike . although often talk of in reverential tone by the left , the strike leave the union ' proud red banner in the dirt and the miner it be mean to support back in the underground gallery with bad pay condition . why ? because the strike alienate the public . last week , the chat from the man force on to the Clapham omnibus when London be cripple by transport strike be less , " up the worker ! " than , " right up the worker , " with their £ 65 , 000 base salary and demand for a still short working week . business can not afford the Bill unamended , as it will take an estimate £ 5 billion out at a time of belt tighten . the public can not afford the Bill unamended , as it will facilitate more frequent and more damaging strike , and it will make job hard to come by . labour itself can not afford the Bill unamended . Labour Members may think that , with scandal and crisis all around , they can not sink any lower in the popularity stake . oh , they can , and the Bill be the tick timebomb that could take they to their nadir fast than they imagine . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to my proud membership of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the GMB . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who have just pop out for some well - earn tea , for his hard work steer the Bill through the House . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my equally hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , to her place ; we both know that she have big shoe to fill . today , we finally arrive at the conclude stage of this historic Bill ' s long journey through Parliament . it be a moment that have be many year in the making . for well over a decade , work people have be call for the protection that this landmark piece of legislation will introduce . it be our duty to deliver they , and to deliver they in full . last year , people vote for change . they be cry out for change , and this Bill deliver real , meaningful and positive change . it be therefore immensely frustrating , although sadly not surprising , to see the old coalition band get back together in the other place , to have one final go at obstruct this Bill through change , like Lords amendment 1 , which will be the focus of my remark . one of the define aim of the Bill be to end exploitative short and zero - hour contract . the right to a guarantee - hour contract be at the heart of the new deal for work people because , as I say on Report , the rise of one - side flexibility have be one of the most damaging labour market development of the past 14 year . such contract leave worker — often the low pay — vulnerable to sudden change in income , with weekly working hour vary unpredictably . it be an unstable , precarious life that many be force into , and it be long past time that this exploitative practice be bring to an end . lord amendment 1 , a throwback team effort from the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives , seek to replace the Bill ' s right to a guarantee - hour contract with a far weak " right to request " . at just five word long , the amendment may seem minor , but it be anything but . as work people know from bitter experience , a right to request often mean no right at all . unfortunately , it be clear from the comment make by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) that either Liberal Democrats do not understand or they be wilfully misrepresent the amendment . lord amendment 1 create a loophole , enable unscrupulous employer to use pressure or coercion to deter employee from make request . it also put that crucial protection out of reach of those who simply be not aware of their right in the first place . far from deliver a new right , it reopen the door to workplace conflict , insecurity and exploitation , something of which I be sure the Liberal Democrats would not be proud . it be completely at odd with the spirit and purpose of the provision , and it must be reject . we must deliver great security , stability and dignity to people in their work life . the right to a guarantee - hour contract , and the increase financial security that bring with it , be central to achieve that . it will be transformative for living standard , productivity and the economy . I urge colleague from across the House not to undermine this essential provision and to reject Lords amendment 1 . work people be count on all of we to do the right thing by they . I be pleased to speak in favour of the Government amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 21 , which commit the Government to review whether to add special constable to the list of role that entitle an employee to request unpaid time off work from their employer under the Employment Rights Act 1996 . special constable be volunteer who give their time freely , at no cost to the taxpayer , to support our police force and keep our community safe . they hold the same power as regular constable : the power to arrest , to search and to detain . they carry the same responsibility , face the same danger and accept the same risk . yet , unlike their regular colleague , they be unpaid . the special constabulary be one of the most remarkable institution of british policing , with its history stretch back almost two century . the Special Constables Act 1831 allow justice of the peace to conscript volunteer to help restore order during riot and unrest . the special be call upon again during the first world war , when regular officer enlist to fight . their success lead to the Special Constables Act 1923 , which ensure their permanent place in police . from their inception , special be design to be a national contingency force : citizen step forward in time of crisis to strengthen the police service when need most . that role be no less relevant today . the Government recently publish a resilience plan , address the high level of threat we face from Russia , global instability and multiple risk here at home . in such a context , special be not a relic of the past , but a vital part of our security and civil defence framework , and a reserve force in all but name . special be also the face of community police . they be visible , local and rooted in the community they serve . they build trust between the police and the public , bring with they outside perspective that keep the police service ground and accountable . for all these reason , special be indispensable to the Government ' s state ambition of strengthen neighbourhood policing , but the special constabulary stand at a crossroad because number be fall at an alarming rate . a decade ago there be around 15 , 000 special constable across England and Wales , but last year there be few than 5 , 900 . while some special be transfer to the regular police , that do not explain the drop . unfortunately , the majority be leave police altogether . currently , a third depart within their first two year of service . this rate of attrition be clearly both inefficient and unsustainable in the long term . too many leave before they have the chance to contribute meaningfully , which waste not only their potential but the time and resource invest in their training . the challenge before we be clear : unless action be take , the special constabulary risk fade away . that would leave a gape hole in community police and in our national resilience . in that context , I bring forward my original amendment to the Employment Rights Bill , specifically to extend section 50 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 to special constable . section 50 already allow those in certain civic role , such as magistrate , councillor and lie prison visitor , to request unpaid time off work to carry out their duty . these be all important position , but I find it surprising that the law allow time off for a meeting about a park bench , yet deny that same right to those who patrol our street and keep we safe . of course , some employer do the right thing , by be understanding and supportive of the special they employ , but many be not . currently , the employer support police scheme encourage employer to support special voluntarily , but that be not enough . it leave too many without support and do nothing to guarantee parity with other role already protect under section 50 . a survey conduct by the Association of Special Constabulary Officers last year show that over 60 % of special receive no support from their employer . at present , employer be under no obligation even to consider a request for time off . at a time when Government policy champion neighbourhood and community police , increase the number of special should be an obvious choice . pass this measure will not cost the taxpayer any money , and an employer who genuinely can not spare their employee time to undertake their voluntary duty will still be able to refuse . increase the number of special in this way have also secure the backing of many police and crime commissioner , as well as the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for the special constabulary , Assistant Chief Constable Bill Dutton . although my original amendment to add special constable to section 50 be reject in this House , it be pass by the House of Lords . I thank Lord Hogan - Howe , the amendment ' s principal sponsor in the upper House , for his support . although I be naturally disappointed that the Government do not wish to keep our amendment as part of the Bill , I wish to thank the relevant Ministers for engage with Lord Hogan - Howe and I so constructively over the past few week . I appreciate the positive overture that the Government have make on this issue . I understand that the review that this Lords amendment legislate for have in fact already start , so I hope that when it be conclude we will hear a positive response from the Minister . I know that many special constable across the country , include Emma Murphy in my constituency , will be watch and wait for the result of this review . I trust the Minister recognise that and will deliver they the result they deserve when she report back to this House next year . I proudly refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which relate to support from trade union . I welcome the Secretary of State and the new Employment Rights Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , to their place . I especially pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Halifax for her support and hard work in the taskforce , when I be shadow Secretary of State for Employment Rights and Protections , that lead to the production of the new deal for work people . we be in good hand as she carry on the excellent work . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) for his excellent stewardship in secure the Employment Rights Bill and take it thus far . I welcome the return of the Employment Rights Bill and the opportunity to address the urgent priority of the people of this country , which be improve employment right for well security at work and , ultimately , well pay from work . the cost of living crisis remain a burn issue , and give people the tool at work to tackle in - work poverty be crucial . this Bill start the process of deliver much - need dignity and security for work people . it will not have escape the attention of colleague that member of the party now purport to speak for work people be nowhere to be see in this debate . we know whose side the Reform party be on , and it be not work people . these Lords amendment demonstrate the problem before we . I urge the House to reject the Opposition ' s amendment , which , if pass , would weaken the right and protection that this Bill seek to deliver . on Lords amendment 1 , which would water down the right to guarantee hour , let we be clear : move from a duty on employer to proactively offer secure contract to a model in which worker must request they would completely undermine the purpose of the Bill . vulnerable worker , often young people on their very first job , should not be leave in the position of have to plead with their employer for basic security . we have hear from Unite member such as Izzy , a pub worker who feel unable to raise issue for fear that her hour would be cut , and Caren , a restaurant worker who be leave with 40 hour one week and barely any the next , with her mental health pay the price . this House can not endorse a model that force worker into the role of Oliver Twist , ask , " please , Sir , may I have some more ? " the duty must rest firmly with employer . lord amendment 7 and 8 would reduce access to short - notice cancellation payment . again , the effect be to let employer off the hook . a 48 - hour limit be wholly inadequate . imagine a parent who be tell late on a Friday night that their Monday shift have be cancel ; there be no compensation , but there be still childcare to pay for . the hon . Gentleman say that a 48 - hour time period be unacceptable , yet the Bill do not specify what time period would be acceptable . do he have an idea in mind of what that number would be ? how many business have he speak to about that ? the amendment speak to those sort of figure . I be make the point that that sort of notice be simply not acceptable . People can not live structured life and be able to plan for their future under such a dreadful regime , and I reject it wholeheartedly . that be not reasonable notice ; it be a transfer of cost and stress on to the worker . USDAW ' s evidence show that , in many sector , worker already get four week ' notice of shift . the risk here be that by lower the standard , we drag condition down across the board . that be why the Government have rightly commit to set notice period through consultation , not through arbitrary amendment . the challenge be that we be wait year before we have any response to what the number might be . do the hon . Member find that reasonable ? in the meantime , we have no protection whatsoever for these people who we be all try to protect . we want to get through this consultation as quickly as possible and to get this Bill on the statute book so that the position be clear , but I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point . we need to move on these issue as a matter of urgency , and he be right to point that out . lord amendment 23 and 106 to 120 propose to reduce the qualifying period for unfair dismissal from two year to six month . we can not support that halfway measure . our manifesto be clear : labour will deliver day one right . accept these amendment risk entrench insecurity and delay meaningful reform . worker should not have to serve a probationary period of six month or two year before be protect from arbitrary dismissal . we will fully consult on probationary arrangement to get they right , but we will not compromise on our principle of security from day one . I must urge the rejection of Lords amendment 62 , which seek to retain the 50 % turnout threshold for industrial action ballot . the threshold be a deliberate barrier impose by the Trade Union Act 2016 . no other democratic process in this country face such a hurdle — not parliamentary vote or local election . this House be elect without such restriction . trade union must not be uniquely single out . remove the threshold restore fairness , strengthen industrial relation and honour our commitment to repeal draconian conservative legislation . finally , Lords amendment 121 would permit academy to deviate from pay and condition agree through the school support staff negotiate body , which risk entrench inequality . it could mean teach assistant in the same trust be on wildly different term , create a postcode lottery in education and expose staff to equal pay dispute . instead of undermine sectoral bargaining , we should be expand it , ensure fair , consistent and collectively agree standard across the board . let we be frank : after year of pay erosion , school support staff truly need a pay restoration deal that value the vital work they do . in every case , the Lords amendment before we risk weakening right , not strengthen they . our task be to make work pay , end one - side flexibility and ensure fairness and dignity for every worker . if this legislation do not go far enough to meet union demand for sectoral bargaining and a single worker status , member of this House will rightly call for a second employment Bill this autumn . we can not sustain this anathema of fragile , insecure work for so many million of people in this country ; they need that security to plan their future , and they need to have the protection that those in employment enjoy . in addition , be they to be bring into that architecture , the Treasury would benefit to the tune of more than £ 10 billion per annum , opposite the uncollected tax and national insurance contribution . work people have wait long enough . it be time for we to deliver the strong right and protection that they truly deserve . I intend to speak mainly to the provision deal with guarantee hour , but I begin with a word of thank to the Government for what they have announce about special constable . it be not quite as good as adopt the amendment , but I welcome the review . I also commend my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) for the work he have do . I hope the review will report quickly , and I hope for a growth in the number of special constable , not only in neighbourhood policing , which my hon . Friend rightly mention , but among people work in the tech sector . we need cyber - special to tackle the scourge of cyber - crime and fraud , which be now the single large category of crime , and be , sadly , grow once again . I want to mention heritage railway , and an issue that be very important for the Watercress line in my constituency . we be talk about amend a piece of legislation from 1920 about the employment of woman and child in industrial setting . it be never intend to cover volunteer work in the heritage railway sector . the people work in or run that sector believe that the legislation be get in the way . minister say that it be not , but clearly , the lawyer have look at the matter and have come to the conclusion that it be . it be very helpful for the Secretary of State to have say today , on the record and on the Floor of the House , what he have do . clearly , though , we will need more guidance to get through this impasse . will he nod his assent to write to I with further detail of how we might clarify the situation , so that heritage railway have the comfort of know that it be all right to have young people work in volunteer position ? we will work on it . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State for suggest that he will try . I turn to the provision deal with guarantee hour and zero - hour contract . I understand why it be attractive to the Government and the Labour party to seek to restrict the availability of contract that do not have a guarantee number of hour . from listen to Labour colleague , it seem almost as if " exploitative zero - hour contract " be one word . it be as if those word must always go together . we all want to end exploitation — that be why , in 2015 , the then Government pass legislation to stop employer impose exclusivity . we say , " if you be not go to guarantee your employee a minimum number of hour , it be not all right to say that they must not work for somebody else . " but not all zero - hour contract be necessarily exploitative . one of the big user of zero - hour contract in our country be none other than the national health service , through its use of bank staff . I notice that the Liberal Democrats announce a new policy today , which would require extra pay for people on zero - hour contract ; I do not know whether they have yet cost that policy . by the way , for many of the people work as bank staff in the NHS , that be not their primary job but a second job . this allow a hospital or other setting to respond to spike in demand . for many people with a zero - hour contract job , it be their second job , not their primary source of income . zero - hour contract job be also very important to people come back into work , as the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) say powerfully in an intervention . many people on zero - hour contract be student . particularly in hospitality , there be a pattern of work whereby an employee live in two place : at home , and at their term - time address . they can stay on the book of their employer at home — it might be a local pub — while they be away study during term time . it could be the other way around : they could have a job in their university town , and stay on the book when they come home . they can dial up or dial down their hour ; for example , many student do not want to work a lot of hour , or any hour , during exam time . contrary to what we might expect , and contrary to the all - one - word conception of " exploitative zero - hour contract " , some people actually prefer a zero - hour contract . and some people do not . and some people do not , as the hon . Gentleman quite rightly say . when I be work at the Department for Work and Pensions , the issue of zero - hour contract become a totemic issue under the leadership of the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , the immediate predecessor of the current leader of the Labour party . there be this idea that there have be a huge increase in the number of people in the country on a zero - hour contract . we discover that less than 3 % of people have a zero - hour contract as their primary source of income , and the average number of hour those people work be not zero or close to zero , but 25 . even more unexpectedly — this be the bit that really get people — the average job satisfaction of people on a zero - hour contract be high than it be for the rest of the workforce . I think we understand why the Labour Government wish to legislate in this way . it be something for Labour mps to bring home . when so much else in their manifesto be fall apart before our eye , they can say , " at least we ' ve kill off this modern scourge , this huge growth in zero - hour contract . " as I say , the number of those contract be not nearly as big as most people think . if you think about it , we have always have zero - hour contract in all sort of form , whether it be piecework , commission - only sale , agency catalogue work or casual labour . in fact , it be possible that today , there be few people on a zero - hour contract than ever before in the history of the labour market . many colleague might reflect on their first job . mine be wash dish in a restaurant . we do not have the phrase at that time , but it certainly would have be a zero - hour contract , apart from the fact that there be no contract at all . if the Government wish to reform this area , as they may , I ask they to consider the situation in sector with great seasonality , include hospitality , tourism and retail , and to please look again at the concept of a 12 - week reference period , which do not reflect the reality of seasonality . I know that this will be introduce through regulation , not the primary legislation , and I welcome what the Secretary of State say ; I think he indicate that the Government be open to look at a more sensible length of time . the Government could also do thing differentially by sector ; there could be one period for employer in general , and another for sector or sub - sector that have particularly strong pattern of seasonality . I also ask the Government to reconsider the requirement to not just offer guarantee hour once , but keep on do it . that be introduce unnecessary bureaucracy . if the Government want to make change in this area , I encourage they to at least ensure that once an employer have make the offer once , the right can become an opt - in right . the Government think that these provision be something for Back - Bench Labour mp to take home , but I ask Labour colleague whether they really want to take they home . do they want to take home high unemployment , and particularly youth unemployment ? do they want to take home few opportunity for people return to the workplace after many year away ? do they want to take home few opportunity for ex - offender — those furth from the labour market ? do they want to take home — because this will come as well , as night follow day — a further trend away from permanent employment and towards fix - term temporary employment ? do they want to take home a shift from wage or salary work to more self - employment ? be that really what Labour want to deliver ? I start by say a massive thank you to the new ministerial team and the new Secretary of State , who I welcome to his role , for keep in clause 14 to 18 of the Bill , as well as for their warm word at the Dispatch Box . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , but we hear all those argument before from Conservative Members when they oppose the minimum wage , which do none of the thing they warn about . I turn to my declaration of interest . it be a shame that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , be not in his place , because he ask all Labour Members to declare our trade union affiliation . I will proudly do so — they be in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — but my interest in this Bill do not stop there . I have work a zero - hour contract , and I would have benefit from this Bill . I have be a care worker who would have benefit from the collective bargaining that this Bill will introduce , and the Bill would also have mean that I be pay for time spend travel between the job I have to travel to . I be proud to stand by my declaration of interest . it be a real shame that the shadow Secretary of State do not mention that he use to be a non - executive director for just Eat , a company that have face a number of claim for give employee bogus self - employ status . perhaps that would have be of interest to everybody in the Chamber . the Employment Rights Bill have be call lot of thing by lot of critic , but to I , it be about ensure that all people can work safely , with respect and dignity , and have security in their work . for the past 15 year , we have see people at the sharp end . we have hear story of business struggle , and nobody want that , but we have not hear the story of what the previous Government subject work people to . they call it a living wage , when actually it be a minimum wage , which ensure that people be stick in in - work poverty . a woman be 34 % more likely to be stick in a zero - hour contract than a man . if we be talk about black and asian minority people , that figure reach 103 % . disabled worker be 49 % more likely to be stick on such a contract . this Bill be about protect all worker , not just some . on the right to sick pay , no one choose to be sick . there be 1 . 3 million people without the right to any sick pay whatever . that be the difference that this Bill will make , and the difference that a Labour Government will make to work people ' s right . as have be mention , where be the grifter who sit on the Opposition Benches ? they pretend that they care about the ordinary work man — not often mention woman ; often they talk only about the work man — but where be they ? they probably have their hand out for some more of Elon Musk ' s bitcoin , shall we say . I will talk about clause that touch on our work on the Women and Equalities Committee . the parental leave review , although not specifically in this Bill , will impact on so many worker . it be a pleasure to hear that be talk about under a Labour Government . we know that parental leave be also a problem for self - employ people . we have hear a lot about the impact of bogus self - employment and rogue boss , but we have not hear enough about the protection for self - employ people . in the course of our Committee ' s parental leave review , we hear that 31 % of self - employ people do not take a single day off after their child be bear . that be a shocking statistic . it be damage not just for our economy , but for individual and family . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) and all the campaigner for their work on misogyny in music and on ban non - disclosure agreement follow sexual harassment and bullying . we hear loud and clear how many people in the music industry be self - employ , and many have be subject to nda . that go unreported and be unknown . the measure before we will make such a difference for so many people in many sector , and it be so important that we get it through . the Conservatives and the Lib Dems talk about bit of the Bill that they do not like , and they list thing that will be problem , but I ask they to think of the people we be try to protect , because there will be a real impact . lord amendment 14 to 18 concern an issue that have a special place in my heart , and the heart of many people , both in this Chamber and outside it . I be pleased that in spring the Government accept the principle of two week of bereavement leave for parent who lose a pregnancy before 24 week . there be no slide scale on pain for bereavement and loss , particularly for expect parent . as a result of this change , grieve parent will no long need to push through their pain to carry on work . woman who experience baby loss will not need to use sick leave , which imply that their body have something wrong with it . argument against the measure be found on , " well , you can always just take sick leave , " but a person who have lose a child blame themselves . it be natural instinct . your first reaction be , " do I do something wrong ? could I have do something differently ? should I have not eat that ? should I have not do this ? should I have not jump ? should I not have go to an exercise class ? " you think of all the thing that you could have do to prevent it . for someone to go to their employer and say , " I need to take sick leave " , as if there be something wrong with they , be fundamentally different from how society see pregnancy loss and miscarriage now , and I be grateful for that . the Lords amendment include those who experience miscarriage , ectopic pregnancy , molar pregnancy , IVF embryo transfer loss and termination for medical reason . it follow the recommendation from the Women and Equalities Committee inquiry . this measure be groundbreake . the UK will be one of only four country in the entire world that recognise miscarriage as the bereavement that it be , and I congratulate the Government on take this measure forward , because it impact so many people . it impact the family who be grieve and it impact so many pregnancy . miscarriage be part of the pregnancy journey . when I first start talk about this topic , it be awkward , I will be honest . it be awkward not just because of the personal pain and how close the topic be to I , but because we do not talk about miscarriage , bereavement and pregnancy loss . it be stigmatise and taboo . so many woman in their 80 and in their 90 have say to I , " I be so grateful that you can talk about this now , because for so long I hold it as if it be a shame and a secret . " none of my loss — none of my baby who do not make it — be anything to be ashamed about , and we should be able to give parent the right to grieve that loss . this groundbreake Bill will do that . I pay tribute to the business that already offer bereavement leave , include many small and medium - sized enterprise , for those who miscarry . it may be informal . the British Beauty Council say that it be supportive of this measure , because it give a framework for employer to know what be the right thing to do when an employee come in and say , " I have lose my pregnancy . " we have stream of evidence , include from Dentsu and the Co - op . it be incredible that business community out there have lead the way and legislation now follow . that go for the large public sector employer of woman : the NHS . when I be on the Public Accounts Committee and now as the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , I ask the NHS , " what be the cost of this ? what be the impact on your staff and your budget ? " the NHS say it be negligible , because it be the right thing to do , and because staff would have leave or take time off sick anyway . it be the right thing to do for the economy , too , because all the business talk to we about how much they have get back from their employee when they come back to work in term of loyalty , trust and retention rate . expectant father be also a huge part of this , and I be so proud that we have extend that right to they . they grieve , too . we hear the experience of man who have lose an expected child . one man say he have not be able to take his wife to hospital when she miscarry , because work have not allow he to leave . she nearly bleed to death on the way to hospital . these thing have horrific impact on everybody — not just mentally and emotionally , but physically . he leave that job and find somewhere that respect he , his right and his family ' s pain . I thank all the charity that support bereaved parent — include the Miscarriage Association , for which I be proud to say I have just become an ambassador — for the fantastic work they do . I thank Tommy ' s and Sands . there be also some individual I want to thank . we do not say thank you enough in this place , so I will take this opportunity to thank they . my particular thank go to Vicki Robinson of the Miscarriage Association and the former employment right Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . he be here early , and I have say thank you to he many time , but I put it on record now . I also thank the former Deputy Prime Minister and Housing Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , and the team of civil servant in the Department for Business and Trade and in the office of the former Deputy Prime Minister . I thank , in the other place , Baron Brennan of Canton — Kevin Brennan — for table the amendment propose by the Women and Equalities Committee , and I thank the Committee ' s Clerks . let I also thank some formidable campaigner , for this be not a sole campaign ; it have go through generation . I thank Myleene Klass , MBE , one of those formidable campaigner , and I thank the other Sheffield MP , my hon . friend the fantastic Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , who have fight so hard to ensure that improvement be make for those who suffer from recurrent miscarriage . I thank the new ministerial team for retain the amendment , and I thank my family and friend who be so supportive , both in this place and outside , and all those who contribute to the inquiry that lead to this change , include the woman who share their devastating story and painful experience . now they can see that change , because now they have a Government who recognise and acknowledge the pain and the loss for what they be : bereavement . I thank the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) for her brave and personal testimony , and for share the testimony of many other on the importance of bereavement leave . let I begin by welcome the news that the bus manufacturer Alexander Dennis will keep its site in Scotland open after the announcement by the First Minister , John Swinney , that the Scottish Government have commit £ 4 million to a furlough scheme while the company obtain new order over the next six month . I be sure the whole House will welcome the action take by the SNP Government in give domestic manufacturing business the opportunity to succeed and protect skilled manufacturing job . from the outset of this Bill , we in the SNP have be clear in our support for legislation that will strengthen the right of worker , have long campaign for many of its provision . there be progressive attempt to guarantee work hour and protection against unfair dismissal , and the Bill begin to reverse some of the most damaging and insult anti - union legislation of the previous Government . none the less , throughout its passage in the House of Commons we have call on the Government to be bold and to use this opportunity to deliver transformational change for worker . we propose amendment to be more robust on fire and rehire , to improve statutory sick pay and to strengthen protection for migrant worker in access their right , all of which be sadly reject by the Government . disappointingly , none of those issue have return to this House in the amendment agree to by the House of Lords . instead , we see a series of amendment that seek to weaken the Bill and weaken the right of employee by water down provision on protection against unfair dismissal , the right to guarantee hour , and the capability of trade union . let I be crystal clear : the SNP will not accept proposal that seek to diminish worker ’ right . one of the most important element of the Bill be the provision ensure that worker have right from day one , a significant change from the current two year . worker should not have to wait to be protect from unfair dismissal . unfair dismissal be unfair no matter what time limit be impose , so there should be none . the Lords amendment would still allow for employee to be dismiss without the right to claim unfair dismissal for the first six month of their employment . fail to reject this amendment today would fundamentally undermine the principle and object of the Bill . the provision on sexual harassment be also significant , particularly those that void agreement prevent worker from make allegation of harassment or discrimination , and void provision prevent worker from speak out about their employer ' s response to the relevant harassment or discrimination . we have hear some eloquent speech today about the very reason why that can never continue . astonishingly , the Lords be attempt to except parliamentary staff from the protection from non - disclosure agreement . I have not hear that mention today , but it be a disgusting attempt by the House of Lords to protect itself from allegation of sexual harassment and to silence those who be victim of sexual harassment in Parliament . what be it about that unelected Chamber , which brazenly seek to use its power to protect and entrench its own privilege time and time again ? this be just another ludicrous example of why the House of Lords need to be abolish : it be utterly shameless . it have long be recognise that insecure work be one of the big problem face our society . I have be listen carefully to what have be say about zero - hour contract , and I want to register a few fact . contrary to what be say early , in the past decade there have be an increase in the number of zero - hour contract worker — not a small increase , but a 65 % increase . More than a million worker be on zero - hour contract , include over 100 , 000 in Scotland , and many more be on very short - hour contract . rather than provide flexibility , zero - hour contract offer little or no control or ability to forward - plan . let I give an example . a recent report from the Work Foundation note that when Wetherspoons introduce an option for guarantee hour — guess what ? — 99 % of its worker opt for guarantee - hour contract , with only 1 % choose zero - hour contract . the Bill seek to require employer to make an offer of guarantee hour to a qualifying worker after the end of every reference period , but once again the Lords have attempt to weaken that by take the onus away from employer and put it on employee , require they to request guarantee hour . it be important for the Government , as well as reject this amendment , to provide clarity on the duration of the reference period and to define what constitute a " low " number of guarantee hour . similarly , the Government seek to reject Lords amendment 8 , which define " short notice " for the purpose of an employer cancel a shift as 48 hour , with Ministers in the Lords suggest that when the regulation be make , " short notice " will be define as a period great than 48 hour . that be fine , but , as I have point out a number of time today , it be cold comfort for those who be currently on zero - hour contract , who will have to wait until 2027 at the early to find out what come back from the Government ' s consultation . one of the big problem with the Bill be that so much of it will not be clarify until far down the line , through secondary legislation and regulation , which mean that much of it be still uncertain , much of it will avoid scrutiny , and much of it will be easy for future government to reverse . indeed , the opposition be on the record as have make that last point today . of course , voter in Scotland know that devolution of employment law be a far well way to protect worker ’ right in Scotland from a future UK Government who might remove those protection . fair work practice be already be deliver by the SNP Scottish Government , such as support collective bargaining , achieve real living wage employer status , and close the gender pay gap fast than other part of the UK . worker in Scotland should never again have to see their employment right erode by any Tory - lead Government , and we in the SNP will continue to campaign — as Scottish Labour be previously commit to do — to ensure that employment law be devolve to Scotland or , well still , that Scotland gain independence from consecutive Westminster Governments who seek to erode scottish worker ’ right . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and my proud membership of the GMB and community union . in Bassetlaw , where the average hourly rate be £ 14 . 16 per hour for woman and £ 14 . 69 for man — over £ 5 per hour less than the national average and not much high than the national living wage — level of pay and working condition be issue that really matter to my constituent . my constituent be not afraid of hard work , but they want to go out each day in the knowledge that they have right under the law that will protect they from unfair dismissal and guarantee that they can bring home a good wage and put a meal on the table . the Employment Rights Bill have now ping - ponge its way back to this place , and my constituent can not wait for the fairness and right that it will bring . this be their chance to level the play field . the Bill be not a handout ; it be a foundation for fair treatment at work . it ensure that when people go to work they be treat with dignity and respect . it be about strengthen right , about no more hire and refire , about no more exploitative zero - hour contract , and about job security from day one . it give worker the power to have guarantee hour of work , and to receive compensation for cancel shift . it give they the power to demand safe workplace where no one have to choose between their pay cheque and their health . it give they the power to stand up against unfair firing and discrimination . this be not just about the law ; it be about restore a sense of justice in the workplace . the other House have attempt to water down those right , and Reform have oppose the Bill all the way through Parliament . while the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) keep tell we that he " doesn ' t know " when he be push on the difficult question , I have no doubt that he and his colleague will be make their way through the " vote against worker ’ right " lobby later this evening . reform have align itself with the powerful interest — the corporate lobbyist and the chief executive — who be fight the Bill , tell we that it be bad for business and that it will hurt the economy . it be no friend of work people . as local people often tell I , good business be base on strong partnership , whereby employer and the workforce strive to meet the daily challenge in the workplace and the up and down of the economy . this legislation will work to strengthen those alliance . the Bill be align with this Government ' s ambitious industrial strategy and commitment to rebuild our economy , and I be focused on get new job , and skill and training , into Bassetlaw . I be grateful for be able to contribute to this debate . it be a privilege to follow so many powerful speech , and the speech deliver by my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) be the most powerful I have hear in this place . her word rise to the moment ; mine be inadequate by comparison . I can only thank she for speak so powerfully about an issue that affect so many of we . I welcome the new Secretary of State to his place , and thank he for the way in which he open this debate . at the outset , I draw the House ' s attention to my background as an officer of the GMB union and my current unpaid role as chair of the GMB parliamentary group . in that capacity , I thank the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , as he leave the Chamber , for what he say about Members ' staff in this place . GMB be the union that represent the majority of people who work in support of we as member of this House . I be sad to say that they be perhaps uniquely vulnerable to some of the abusive practice that have shame our democracy for too long , and I be at a loss to understand how the relevant Lords amendment be ever bring forward from the other place . I wish to speak specifically against Lords amendment 121 , 11 and 1 , and in support of the Government amendment that seek to strike they out . before do so , I want to say a few word about my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who be not in his place at the moment . as a former shadow Minister and latterly as the sponsoring Minister for this Bill , he unfailingly and characteristically bring graft , industry and good humour to the brief . this would be a weak and less Bill without he , and those of we who support the Bill and its principle owe he a debt of thank . I be glad that my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , who bring a real depth of knowledge and understanding to the role of Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , be now guard the Bill ' s passage to Royal Assent . I know that she will be both pro - worker and pro - business in her approach . I believe that Lords amendment 121 contain significant drafting weakness and would fundamentally alter the nature of the propose and restore school support staff negotiate body . first , the amendment state that employer may introduce new term and condition of employment that " meet or exceed any minimum standard set by the SSSNB . " in legal term , however , the SSSNB will not set or determine those standard ; it be a statutory forum for negotiation . the actual condition of employment will be set through regulation draft by the Secretary of State and approve by Parliament . secondly , the actual parameter of a future pay and grade structure will be negotiate by the relevant party : the representative of employer , and the representative of employee . that be the spirit of the original 2008 Act and the actual operation of the SSSNB in its original incarnation . give my experience as a former trade union officer represent school support staff , I know the contractual issue that need to be address be so complicated that they can not be satisfactorily resolve on the Floor of the House . that complexity be a result of 14 year of drift , dither and political disinter in the 800 , 000 support staff worker in England who keep our school go , and it be a damn indictment of the decision to cancel the original sssnb . finally , Lords amendment 121 risk create confusion at a local level . the amendment state that employer must not be restrict from introduce " improved term and condition " , but change to contract be not merely introduce ; they be consult on and agree , either individually or collectively , under exist statute . the effect of the somewhat loose wording in the amendment may be to encourage local attempt to make unilateral variation to contract and term and condition . member who support this amendment might say that only improvement could be make under it , but both " improvement " and " detriment " be subjective term . they be in the eye of the beholder , and I believe that if the amendment be to be carry through , the actual effect may be to increase the number of court case concern school support staff . I urge the opposition not to push a point , and to reconsider their wide opposition to the school support staff negotiate body . school support staff undertake essential role , and they deserve the same professional standard and professional respect that be afford to teacher . that be what the restoration of the school support staff negotiate body will achieve . we have debate the official Opposition ' s amendment many time at various stage , but I want to comment on some of the Lords amendment that stand in the name of liberal Democrat peer , either in whole or in part . when I enter this Chamber at the start of the debate , I do not presume that those amendment necessarily enjoy the support of the Liberal Democrat Front Benchers in the Commons , but I be afraid that impression be dispel by the contribution from the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . I be at a loss to understand how the radical change in approach have come about among the Liberal Democrats in this House between Committee stage , Report , Third Reading and the debate that we be hold today . in fact , listen to the hon . Lady , I feel an uncomfortable sense of d é j à vu : it be like watch the Rose Garden press conference all over again . after all , her Front - Bench colleague — the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) and for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) — be at all time appropriately critical in Committee , but they be essentially supportive of the principle of enhance worker ’ right . lord amendment 11 , which be originally a conservative amendment in the Commons but now stand in the name of a liberal Democrat peer , be not support by the Liberal Democrats in Committee . lord amendment 1 , which stand in the name of both Liberal Democrat and conservative peer , seek to amend clause 1 . however , the Liberal Democrats support that clause in Committee and only voice concern , which be reasonable , that timely guidance to employer must be issue to accompany it ; indeed , they vote with Labour Members when it be put to a vote in Committee . I fear that this amendment , too , could have serious unintended consequence . the clause that it seek to amend put a duty on employer to offer regular - hour contract to " worker " — that be the language use in the legislation as it stand at the moment — but the amendment seek to convert that duty into a right to request by employee . " employee " be , of course , a more restrictive category than " worker " ; indeed , clause 148 of the Bill as draft make it clear that for the purpose of the interpretation of this Bill , " worker " and " employee " mean two different thing . many of the people who be class only as " worker " be precisely those who may benefit the most from these protection . some 5 million people who be nominally casual worker in sector such as social care , construction , hospitality , security and retail could be exclude from these protection if the amendment , which stand in the name of Conservative and liberal Democrat peer , be to be carry . I hope it be not the intention of those on the Conservative Benches to exclude those 5 million people . at the start of this debate , I could not believe that that be the intention of the Liberal Democrats , but now I be not so sure . the Women and Equalities Committee hear compelling evidence early this year about misogyny in the music industry . that be exactly one of the area where people who be class as " worker " need protection , so I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I thank my hon . friend for raise a very powerful and relevant point . she be absolutely right that those be the group of worker who would enjoy great protection as a result of this legislation be carry . I want to respond to a couple of point that have be make in this debate . it be a shame that the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who be not currently in his place , do not have the self - confidence in his argument to take intervention on his point . he refer repeatedly to the validity of estimate of the number of worker employ on zero - hour contract , but there be good reason for not have confidence in these estimate . after all , they be derive from the Office for National Statistics labour force survey , which have have well - advertise and well - understand problem with response rate that have wide implication for both the current Government and the previous Government . it be well know that the number of people who identify as be on a zero - hour contract correspond to change in the wording of that particular question . in addition , the labour force survey have well - understand limitation when it come to reach people who be employ in what might be call the most marginalised part of the economy . I therefore urge conservative Members not to have too much confidence in those estimate , but to look instead at the survey of worker undertake by many organisation , such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and trade union . it be a shame to hear during the debate the number of reference to trade union political fund only in the context of party funding . of course , the great majority of trade union political fund be operate by trade union that be not affiliate to any political party . furthermore , the political fund even of labour - affiliate union in practice often support meaningful and consequential campaign that be support by member across the House . one example to which I would draw member ' attention be the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 — sometimes call the protect the protector legislation — which begin as a result of trade union campaigning that be not party political in its nature , and that legislation have since be broaden . I pay tribute to usdaw ' s " Freedom from Fear " campaign and the work that have be do to extend the same protection to retail worker . these be exactly the sort of valuable campaign that , sadly , member from both the official Opposition and the Liberal Democrats be look to restrict . finally on point raise , I have not intend at the start of the debate to talk about heritage railway . indeed , it must be say that during those long year in opposition , when we be look closely as trade union official at the potential future issue that would be cover by trade union legislation , I think it be fair to say that that issue never once come up , but perhaps we be guilty of tunnel vision . [ interruption . ] sorry , I will not do that again . throughout all the debate on this matter in the other place and here , it have be discuss purely in theoretical term . the contention have be that the 1920 Act have have a chilling effect on the of operation heritage railway across the country . I do not think , but I would be glad to be correct , that any actual example have be bring forward of either court case be take or legal advice be receive from those organisation , but it certainly feel like an issue that the Transport Committee may wish to consider . I have try to limit my comment only to the detail of the Lords amendment , but if I may , I will make two general comment . as my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough say , the labour manifesto commit to " implement ' labour ' s plan to make work pay … ' in full … and introduce basic right from day one to parental leave , sick pay , and protection from unfair dismissal . " yet in front of we be Lords amendment that would either obviate many of those commitment or reduce their potency to homeopathic level . as he also rightly say , there can be no question of nod through amendment that contradict the clear mandate we first receive a year ago , and which command broad support among voter of all party . it would be an omission not to congratulate the hon . member who have campaign for specific change to the Bill and have secure some important change . that include the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , who raise the issue of special constable in a very persuasive way in Committee , even if he may not be entirely persuade to support the legislation in full now that special constable be name in the Bill . I would also like to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Luton North and my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) on , and thank they for , their important work on bereavement leave and non - disclosure agreement . the use of non - disclosure agreement in sexual harassment case have no place in any of our institution . finally , as have be say a number of time , today ' s proceeding be not the end for this Bill , because ahead there be the long task of implement this manifesto commitment . I look forward to , I hope , play some part in scrutinise the many statutory instrument that will be bring forward , which I be sure will gainfully employ the time of many hon . member throughout the year to come . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — like most Labour Members , I be proud to be support by trade union . other have mention the absence of Reform Members from this debate , and of course we know why they be not here : they do not support the measure in the Employment Rights Bill , but they do not have the gut to say that to their voter . I be here to speak on behalf of my constituent , particularly those who feel insecure at work . they be the people who do not have asset and safety net , who be not mobile and confident , who live pay day to pay day , and who feel that they must take whatever pay and condition they be offer because they be terrified of the alternative . it be 12 year since this party announce a commitment to end exploitative zero - hour contract as a means of control worker and avoid employment obligation . I be a former teaching assistant , and many teaching assistant be work under a form of zero - hour contract . do my hon . friend agree that this Bill , as well as bring back the negotiate body for teach assistant and support staff at school , will greatly help they by take away the zero - hour contract under which they previously suffer ? the Bill absolutely will do so . I remember speak to a young couple when I be canvass 12 year ago . the young woman have just have a baby , but because she be on a zero - hour contract , she be unable to get the maternity right to which she be otherwise entitle . her young partner , who likewise be on a zero - hour contract , talk about his pay and condition at work , and after ask he why he do not challenge his employer , I understand that so many young people do not feel able to do so because they feel so insecure and sometimes just so grateful to be in a job . that be why I be speak against Lords amendment 1 . it be absolutely right that the onus be place on the employer to ensure that people be give regular contract , and that we be not ask people who be often the most vulnerable and insecure worker to go to their employer and start assert and demand their right . I have meet many constituent over the past year or so , and I have learn about the sheer vulnerability that , sadly , many work people feel , such as a tenant who tell I that they be frightened of demand right from their landlord because they fear they will be evict . of course , Reform also vote against our reform ban no - fault eviction . my hon . friend be make a very powerful speech . he quite rightly mention that the Reform UK member be not in their place , and do he agree with I that this really be a travesty ? when we think about the social medium post that they put out and the grand speech they give up and down this land , do he agree with I that it really be a travesty for they to claim to be on the side of work people when they have the audacity to vote in this House against a Bill introduce by a Labour Government on the side of work people ? it will not surprise my hon . friend to hear that I completely agree with that assessment . they be clearly not on the side of my constituent or the people I be talk about , who just do not feel that they can assert their right . too many feel completely powerless , so it be right that we put the onus where it be . I will vote against the attempt in the Lords to water down that part of the Bill . on access the right in the Bill , do my hon . friend agree that , for people go about their busy daily life at work and possibly struggle to make end meet , there be a fundamental difference between a right to a contract with guarantee hour and a right to request one ? there be a difference . my hon . friend be an expert in this field , have come to we from USDAW , and I know that those who work on the Bill will have think this through carefully . it certainly chime with my experience . People should not need to have to request and assert their right ; they should be give those right . that be what this Government be do . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a member of Unison and the GMB , and during the election I receive financial support from trade union . one thing I find when I be a trade union official be that it be not necessarily people who be not confident in assert their own right . a number of worker simply do not know what their right be . oddly enough , employer be not run around hand out little laminated card say , " here be all the right you can ask I for . " if employer be not make to tell they their right , how else be employee mean to find out ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . that be what the Bill speak to . there be a power gap between the ordinary work person who do not necessarily know their right and be unable to assert they , and the sort of person who , for example , might buy a house in their girlfriend ' s name . I will progress . I also oppose the attempt , in Lords amendment 106 , to water down the Bill by require six month for protection from unfair dismissal . there be of course a difference between unfair dismissal and fair dismissal . no employer be prevent from use fair ground to dismiss an employee . the previous Government extend the time before you could even claim unfair dismissal to two year . that leave far too many people vulnerable to be dismiss at a whim , or dismiss because they have demand their right at work . I have an experience of that myself . I have never talk about it before , because I sign a non - disclosure agreement . shortly after become the branch rep for the University and College Union when I be a college lecturer , I point out that the college I be teach at be not pay the minimum wage to some of its staff . the college then attempt to dismiss I for bring it into disrepute . thankfully , I be able to take on one of the top employment lawyer in the area at the time — only because they have force I to teach an hr course — and give myself a crash course in human right law . I leave that place with a payout . I remember the shame I feel at the time for sign the non - disclosure agreement . I want to fight for other people , but at the end of the day I be terrified that I be go to miss my next mortgage payment and I be think of my child . that be the position that far too many people find themselves in . so what we be do on non - disclosure be right . I have to ask all member , as they vote on whether to water this down , whose side they be on . will they be on the side of those seek to cover up sexual harassment , rather than on the side of the whistleblower ? in my mind ' s eye , as I vote this evening , will be real people in my Bishop Auckland constituency . I want to tell the House about two or three of they . a few month ago , I receive correspondence from a parish councillor who be also a local farmer and a member of the Labour party . he tell I of his concern that every day he see two woman sit in the bus shelter in a cold hilltop village . he approach they to ask they what they be do there , because they be there for several hour . it turn out that they be care worker . they be drop off in the morning and do a visit . at another point in the day they would do another visit , and another visit later . but they be only pay for the specific time that they be in people ' s house ; they be not pay for the entirety of the day . that be a workaround to avoid pay they the minimum wage . the Bill make provision for a fair pay agreement in adult social care to address such practice . by the way , he then open the village hall for they and make sure they have a warm space to wait in each day between shift . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I , too , be a Unison rep , and I have take contribution from Unison and other union towards my election expense . the point my hon . friend make be very real in Cornwall too . migrant care worker be leave on a bench in a village from the early morning shift to the late evening shift . that must be address , and it will be address under the Bill . it will , absolutely . we should not have people work in those kind of condition and that sort of poverty in 2025 . my hon . friend speak about care worker . do he agree that one issue so brutally expose during the pandemic be the fact that many thousand of care worker be class as worker , not employee ? as a consequence , they could not get full access to sick pay . one consequence of that be that the fatality rate among both resident and worker be much high in the care home that do not make that provision available . if the provision in the Bill be in place then , many thousand of life could have be save . my hon . friend raise an excellent point . another great provision in the Bill be that right to sick pay , which be so important and would have be so important for many care worker during the pandemic . in my mind ' s eye be those woman sit at that bus stop in the cold . two other people I meet who be also care worker — one live in High Etherley and the other in Etherley Dene — tell I similar story . they do not vote for I . they do not vote for anybody , because they do not believe that anybody could fix their problem . they just tell I that their life be tough . they have to pay for their own uniform . they be not really get the minimum wage for their work . they feel disrespect by everybody . they feel vulnerable and leave behind . but I make they a promise that if I come to this place , I would speak up for they . I be do that today and I be vote for they today . finally , the Employment Rights Bill be not just good for worker ; it be also good for business . so many family business in Bishop Auckland , Shildon , Crook and Barnard Castle all tell I the same thing . they tell I how much they enjoy contribute to our local economy and how important it be to they that they be a responsible , decent employer . but they tell I how tough it be when there be a race to the bottom . they want employment right strengthen . they do not want the water - down version come to we from the Lords . they want the full - fat version of this Bill , because they know it be good for their worker and good for their business . I would like to start by thank all member who have contribute to the debate , but especially the new ministerial team and senior Ministers across the Government who recommit to this legislation in public , and especially to the previous ministerial team who advance the Bill as it go through the Commons . in my constituency , of the six key pledge on our leaflet , this be the one that get the young generation interested and engage . they be worried about where they would work , how they would work and how they would get ahead in life . the vast majority of young people across this country be aware that the path to a well life come through the workplace . what do we see when we look at these Lords amendment ? it be another week , another paltry attempt by the Opposition party in the Lords to undermine my constituent ' right at work . a couple of week back , there be an Opposition day motion that tell my constituent that if they work behind a bar , they should have few right than if they work behind a desk . these amendment be just another feeble attempt at water down a popular and generationally crucial piece of legislation . I join the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , who be no long in his place , in welcome today ' s announcement from Alexander Dennis , which cover my constituency and the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . I have campaign on this issue since the day I be elect to this place , and will continue do so on behalf of the sector and the bus manufacturing worker , who will be sigh with relief today . there have be a lot of discussion in the press about who be responsible and who get the credit . the workforce get the credit for their resilience during what have be possibly one of the bleak time we have see for the bus manufacturing industry in Falkirk . also , trade union get the credit . their persistence and constructive work throughout the negotiation be the reason we have come to a positive resolution today . many of the young manufacture worker at Alexander Dennis , which have be a staple industry in Falkirk , will benefit from the Bill . the apprentice and young manufacturing worker whose right will be uplifted from the baseline will benefit from today ' s announcement because bus manufacturing will continue to exist in the Falkirk area , as it have do for a century . the announcement give we at least six month to make the move permanent ; the work to make it permanent must start today , and I be glad to have write to several Ministers about that . the amendment from the other place that I would like to discuss would fundamentally undermine the mission to make work pay , which this Government be elect to deliver . our mission be to tip the scale in favour of worker and , more importantly , build a generation who be treat well at work from age 16 to retirement . when I consider my experience of work from 16 to 22 , predominantly on zero - hour contract in insecure role , I see that be not the case for my generation . we should not lecture our young people , but show they that if they put in the graft , they can reap the reward of their labour . we need to pull the baseline up to the level maintain by the many good employer in constituency across the country — in Falkirk and beyond . lord amendment that seek to remove clause 23 be , to my mind , clear attempt to water down one of the signature pledge of the Bill and of this Government ' s mission to make work pay : a guarantee of day one right . even if I do not agree with those amendment , I understand many in the other place who have talk about the potential disincentive for many small business to hire in a difficult economy and a cost of living crisis . however , the right of employee , and especially of our young workforce , should not be trade off in every instance in order to maximise spreadsheet efficiency in the labour market . I wonder whether my hon . Friend agree that when Conservative Members oppose day one right , they be not really worried about the day on which the right start ; they be actually oppose to the right . that be why many of they can not muster an argument that be about more than , as he say , spreadsheet efficiency . I agree , especially if we look at unfair dismissal . the issue be not the cause of the dismissal ; at its core , this be about deny people recourse . if a worker can not claim unfair dismissal because of the two - year threshold , their recourse be substantially weak . the course of the conduct be not change simply because a worker have be in a place of employment for 23 month , as oppose to two year . this issue be real and corrosive . I have have young people in my constituency office who have experience this issue , especially in the run - up to consideration of this Bill . there have be a course of conduct in the workplace that have result in they want to leave , or somebody want to force they out , and this issue make it substantially easy for bad employer — not every employer , of course — to force an employee out . it do not change the nature of the conduct , or what we should be tackle , which be poor employment practice . I do understand the concern that have be raise , but a two - year threshold often lead to worker , early on in their career , be take out of the workplace without process or prior warning . their only right of recourse , as I have say , be take the employer to court through a far weak form of redress that be often time - consume , exhausting , fruitless and restrictive , and so deter they from pursue their right . be the hon . Gentleman aware that many small business be fearful of day one right because they worry that they might take someone on , only for it to become apparent within a few day that they be not appropriate for their business , and they then fear an employment tribunal for procedurally unfair dismissal , and the cost involve . the result of grant day one right be that small business will be less likely to employ more people , and far less likely to employ people at the margin of the labour market , such as someone recently out of prison or someone with mental health problem . the Bill will increase unemployment . I have to disagree with the characterisation of the Bill as increase unemployment . we have hear the same about other measure . to tackle the hon . Gentleman ' s point about somebody come into a workforce and not be cut out for it , which I have see happen in hospitality and retail industry , I believe that be address by the probation provision in the Bill . I fully agree with my hon . friend that the probation period be the core of the answer to the question from the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) . do my hon . friend agree that a large part of the fear we see be due to scaremongere and misinformation spread by Opposition Members ? I agree on the misinformation be put out about hypothetical situation , which be often talk about when we discuss hospitality . I recognise the point be put forward for small business , but I also recognise that those business have the right to a probation period , and to other employment model , such as part time work . I have see that happen quite frequently . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives bequeath we an economy in which more and more people be move out of work and become long - term sick ? a lot of that sickness be drive by mental health disorder — in particular , anxiety , worry and stress , which be drive by an insecure labour market . do he also agree that the measure in the Bill to make people safe and more protect at work will improve mental wellbeing and productivity , and be good for economic growth ? I fully agree that the economic benefit of security in the workplace be evident . I have work in some of the most insecure industry in hospitality , and people try to rush themselves back into work be a severe issue , especially just after the pandemic , because they do not have another source of income . if they have to isolate , there be financial support , luckily , which be just about enough to cover wage for a period , administer by local authority . however , there be still a lot more people who try to drive themselves back into the workplace . I remember come back after a 10 - day isolation period after have covid , and I could tell that I be not prepare physically or mentally to re - enter the workplace . it do make I think that I want to call in sick . it be then substantially more difficult for someone to re - enter work , especially in high - intensity industry . we often forget how physically intensive hospitality and retail workplace , where people be work on zero - hour contract , can be . my hon . friend be make a very powerful case . I rise merely to support what he be say . about a decade ago , the University of Manchester publish research that find that be in form of insecure employment may be more damaging to health than be unemployed . that be substantially clear . I would add the concern that long - term sickness translate into long - term unemployment , which be often see in the most insecure workplace . we often think of people burn out in a very high - stress , high - income job , but it happen right through our labour market . in my experience , it have lead to devastating consequence , but those be personal story that I do not have the permission or time to go into . I appreciate that the hon . Gentleman be try to get through his speech , and I very much respect the position he have take , but I have to fundamentally disagree . we Opposition Members have be accuse of scaremongere and of misinformation , but what do the hon . Gentleman say to the Federation of Small Businesses , the British Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of British Industry , all of which have say that because of the Bill and the regulation it will impose , employer will be let go of staff , and that there will be a damaging consequence to employment and job ? do he think that that be misinformation and scaremongere , or be that just expert voice urge caution about the Bill ? to address the point about substantial issue face business , I acknowledge that be the case at the moment . we be not talk about energy cost or business rate , but I have a local business improvement district on my high street and I be well aware that it be talk about the cost that be put on business . this Bill be a fundamental rebalancing in favour of worker , and frankly that would have to happen , irrespective of economic condition . we need it to get people to believe that work pay again , because sadly much of my generation have not have that perception of work for too long . they may have see other avenue — easy , passive income that do not come from hard graft , and from learn skill that be need at a fundamental level . the problem be that the entry point to work for many young people have be casualise and be insecure , and often it do not seem as though there be any prospect . I believe the Bill will change that perception substantially . to go back to doorstep conversation , this be one of the pledge in our manifesto that get young people engage and think about how politic could fundamentally change their life and their experience in the workplace . turn to Lords amendment 1 , I want to member to put themselves in the mind of somebody experience a zero - hour contract for the first time . the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) make some reasonable point about the right to request , rather than the right to have a contract that reflect hour , but in my experience of who zero - hour contract be mean for in society , they be extensively give to the young generation at the entry point of their career . there be a fundamental flaw in the concept of a right to request . someone may be in their first job behind the till at Argos , or at a pie kiosk , or at a hotel bar or a restaurant — I do not have to imagine it ; this be essentially my cv , prior to enter politic , all do in the last 10 year . at age 18 , people do not necessary know their right beyond what their mum and dad tell they , and this be a point I have hear address by several member . imagine a person who , after year of zero - hour contract , reliance on casualised working and low pay , be in an industry that be still adapt to the Bill ' s provision . they ask for a contract that reflect their hour , rather than what they would be entitle to under the Bill if we reject the amendment . how likely would they be to press the issue with their employer in this market ? how likely be it that somebody will bang their fist on the table and say , " I want the contract that I can request , rather than the one I be entitle to " ? People often want to make a career in the retail and hospitality field , but how likely be they to do so if they can not get the hour they be entitle to , or foresee their income for the come year ? they can get a contract that reflect the shift that they be put in . the problem with the amendment be that it shift the power dynamic ever so slightly back to the employer , when the legislation quite rightly tip the balance in favour of the worker — the work people who have endure the acute impact of a pandemic . I lose my job and my ability to privately rent , and I have to move back home , age 20 , in a cost of living crisis . my hon . friend talk about tip thing in favour of the employee . how important be that , when we have hear of employee who have be exploit through zero - hour contract , and who can not say no , or pay their bill ? some people , especially young woman , have be sexually abuse at work when they try to adjust their contract . these measure be a vital part of the legislation . I thank my hon . friend for her excellent intervention . that dynamic be apparent in the workplace , from the small perceive grievance all the way up to the very serious criminal allegation she refer to . it be a power dynamic that we need to address through the Bill . zero - hour contract put far too much power in the hand of the employer over the employee . to address the point about notice of cancellation , I have work as agency staff , and have be tell not to come in the night before a shift . it be demoralise , quite frankly . in the workplace , it alienate people from colleague they have have a good laugh with the day before . they may have work closely beside they and say , " see you tomorrow " . Most good employer know that and do not cancel shift the night before . sadly , short - term cancellation have increase , especially post pandemic . this be something I endure , have lose my job during the pandemic pick up takeaway . imagine young parent work payslip to payslip who have to arrange childcare on a Friday night and be then send a text at 3 am on a Saturday by their boss that say , " Don ' t bother come in on Monday . " be we seriously say that that give they enough time to arrange their life and that it be fine to arrange their life around the employer , or should we rightly acknowledge that it be insufficient to provide legitimate flexibility ? it be a cover for the rare but corrosive practice of bad employer . we must keep this purpose in mind during the consultation with Ministers . that moral clarity should negate the need for a lengthy consultation . it be no surprise that the party that oppose the introduction of the minimum wage and the Employment Relations Act 1999 would be oppose to this legislation . I have to say , party purportedly of the left or centre - left will have to explain at the ballot box to the young voter they seem so eager to court why their right matter less if they work behind a bar compare with those who work in the city or in law , or perhaps even as a Member of Parliament . we be elect to this place to deliver for work people . the Employment Rights Bill in full will deliver this , and I will be proud to vote down the Lords amendment tonight . with the leave of the House , I call the Secretary of State . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your colleague for conduct this debate so efficiently and effectively . I be grateful to member from across the House for the contribution they have make to the debate today and throughout the development of this legislation . it have be exhaustively debate — in Committee and in both Chambers — and now it have come back again to be exhaustively vote on this evening . the Employment Rights Bill will benefit million of people across the country , raise the floor for worker and strengthen protection in the modern workplace . it will help unlock high productivity , drive innovation and create the right condition for long - term , sustainable and secure economic growth . this have be a constructive debate , and I thank member from across the House for their varied and valuable view . I will now turn to individual contribution . many member speak about their broad view on the Bill without ask specific question , but I would like to unpick as many as I can , because it be a good , high - quality debate . I start with the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , whose contribution I enjoy very much , particularly because we be both Sussex mps . he refer to many place in his constituency and ask whether I have visit some of they . I grow up in Bognor Regis just down the road and at weekend would often walk to place that he now represent in Parliament . it be one of the most beautiful part of the Sussex Downs . the shadow Secretary of State say that the Bill be a bad day for democracy . he be not unknown for overstatement , but give that the Bill be in the manifesto that win the trust of the public , I would say that today be a good day for democracy . it be a day when the Government elect by the people deliver on a promise make to the people , when a Bill that be introduce in the House of Commons , debate here in Committee , and debate extensively in House of Lords , have come back . this be democracy at its very good . I hope he will reflect on that . there be a lot of issue with vote percentage threshold , which the shadow Secretary of State also raise . I point out that he be elect to this place on 28 % of the vote of the community that he represent . if we apply his logic , he be advocate one rule for he and another for every other worker in the country . to the Labour party , that simply do not stand . I also point out that during the Conservatives ' period in government from 2010 onwards , employment tribunal delay increase by 60 % . we therefore take no lecture from those who criticise some of the cost that may or may not be incur as a result of the Bill , because they inflict enormous measure and cost on business around the country . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) make a passionate , detailed and personal speech about the Bill . it be clear that the Bill be the culmination of his career before come into politic and in politic , both in opposition and in government . I can not thank he enough for his work and for how he have engage with I since I be appoint to this job just over a week ago . I hope that he see in the debate and the approach of this Front - Bench team the legacy he leave be represent loud and clear . my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) speak passionately about the cause of seasonal worker . he speak for the consultation that we have pledge to have to ensure that we get this right . several hon . member from across the House speak about seasonal worker ; it be good to see they represent . as a Member of Parliament for Sussex — my hon . friend be a Member of Parliament for Kent — we care deeply about these issue , and we will strive to ensure that we get it right . my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) raise an important point on non - disclosure arrangement , which she have campaign so hard for . I thank she not only for speak with passion but for stand on a record of delivery on this matter . she be an advocate for whom we should all be proud , because she have use her parliamentary prowess to deliver the real change need on NDA reform . I thank Zelda Perkins — I believe she be not in the Gallery now , but she be here — who have show extraordinary bravery through her advocacy for victim of harassment and discrimination . I have stand by in admiration of the work she have undertake . my right hon . Friend ask what the consultation will cover . we will consult on the regulation that expand the type of individual and measure that apply beyond those who be within the definition of " employee " and " worker " , and on the condition for excepted nda . to give an example , where a victim request one and worker be cover by an excepted NDA , they can speak about the relevant harassment and discrimination to , for example , a lawyer or a medical professional . my right hon . Friend also ask about the timing . unfortunately , I can not provide a timetable tonight , but I want to be clear that this be a personal priority for I . I reassure she that we will be move as fast as possible to consult on the related secondary legislation and commence the measure . I will stay in touch with she so that she be fully inform along the way . I be grateful to hon . member across the House for their contribution today and for their hard work in get the Bill where it be . it be of paramount importance that we get the Bill on to the statute book and start deliver for business and worker as soon as possible . my right hon . friend be rightly talk about the contribution make in the debate by hon . member of various party . I be always reluctant to criticise individual member who may not attend a debate , because they often have good reason , but there have now become a pattern : at no point in the Bill ' s passage have any Reform Member speak to justify their stance of scrap thousand of law , include employment law . do my right hon . friend agree that there be a democratic deficit in not one Reform Member ever have speak to defend their stance ? yes , indeed . when we talk about seasonal worker , we do not mean Reform Members . of course , member have lot of duty elsewhere , but it be not surprising to I that a party lead by somebody who go to another country and invite that country to punish this country would be absent from a debate all about give right to worker right across the country . reform want to strip our worker of their right , their dignity and , through its action , the pay in their pocket . the absence of Reform Members today suggest nothing else . I urge hon . member on both side of the House to consider carefully the amendment I have propose in lieu of those make in the other place . one of my predecessor as President of the Board of Trade once argue that worker need protection because , without it , " the good employer be undercut by the bad , and the bad employer be undercut by the bad " . — [ Official Report , 28 April 1909 ; Vol . 4 , c . 388 . ] that predecessor be Winston Churchill . he know that the good employer need protect from unfair competition by company who trade at the expense of right at work . the Bill protect worker from exploitation and protect business from unfair competition . that be why the Bill be pro - worker and pro - business . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 22 . government amendment ( b ) make to Lords amendment 22 . lord amendment 22 , as amend , agree to . clause 1 - right to guarantee hour Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Deirdre Costigan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 326 , Noes 160 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . clause 3 - right to payment for cancel , move and curtail shift Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 7 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Deirdre Costigan Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 158 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 7 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 8 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Deirdre Costigan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 172 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 8 disagree to . after Clause 18 - special constable : right to time off for public duty Lords amendment 21 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 21 . clause 23 - right not to be unfairly dismiss : removal of qualifying period , etc Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 23 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Deirdre Costigan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 329 , Noes 163 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 23 disagree to . schedule 3 - right not to be unfairly dismiss : removal of qualifying period , etc . lord amendment 106 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make to the word so restore to the Bill . lord amendment 107 to 120 disagree to . after clause 26 - Regulations to protect whistleblower Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 46 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Gregor Poynton Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 314 , Noes 178 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 46 disagree to . after clause 26 - right to be accompany by a certify professional companion Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 47 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Deirdre Costigan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Ben Lake John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 327 , Noes 164 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 47 disagree to . More than five hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . after clause 26 - definition of seasonal work Motion make and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 48 — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 328 , Noes 160 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 48 disagree to . after clause 26 - consultation on Part 1 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 49 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 332 , Noes 160 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 49 disagree to . after clause 54 - restriction on the employment of child in industrial undertaking Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 60 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 318 , Noes 170 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 60 disagree to . clause 59 - requirement to contribute to political fund Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 61 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 161 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 61 disagree to . clause 65 - industrial action ballot : turnout threshold Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 62 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 161 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 62 disagree to . Lords amendment 72 disagree to . schedule 4 - pay and condition of school support staff in England Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 121 . — ( Peter Kyle . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Claire Hughes Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 161 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 121 disagree to . lord amendment 2 to 6 agree to . lord amendment 9 to 20 agree to . lord amendment 24 to 45 agree to . lord amendment 50 to 59 agree to . lord amendment 63 to 71 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 66 . lord amendment 73 to 105 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 88 , 90 , 91 and 101 . lord amendment 122 to 169 agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1 , 7 , 8 , 23 , 107 to 120 , 46 to 49 , 60 to 62 , 72 and 121 ; that Peter Kyle , Gen Kitchen , Dr Marie Tidball , Anneliese Midgley , Michael Wheeler , Andrew Griffith and Sarah Olney be member of the Committee ; that Peter Kyle be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , National Security that the draft Counter - Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 and the Terrorism Act 2000 ( Port Examination Codes of Practice ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 July , be approve . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) question agree to . Modernisation Committee Ordered , that Joy Morrissey be discharge from the Modernisation Committee and John Lamont be add . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) Environmental Audit Committee Ordered , that Pippa Heylings be discharge from the Environmental Audit Committee and Roz Savage be add . — ( Jessica Morden . ) Procedure Committee Ordered , that Joy Morrissey be discharge from the Procedure Committee and John Lamont be add . — ( Jessica Morden . ) petition - propose expansion of Plymouth City Council into the South Hams 10 . 59 pm far to a similar online petition of just under 1 , 800 signature , I present this petition . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Plymouth City Council ' s propose expansion into 13 parish in the South Hams be strongly oppose by local resident ; far declare that Plymouth City Council ' s proposal threaten the identity , autonomy and rural character of long - establish parish community ; far declare that Devon ' s District Councils have present an alternative 1 - 4 - 5 model for local government reorganisation in Devon which take account of local resident ' wish ; and further note that this plan would retain Plymouth as a unitary authority within its current boundary , create a second unitary authority comprise South Hams , Teignbridge , West Devon and Torbay , and a third authority cover East Devon , Mid Devon , North Devon , Torridge and Exeter . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reject Plymouth City Council ' s propose boundary expansion into the South Hams and instead adopt the 1 - 4 - 5 model propose by South Hams District Council , which respect exist boundary and reflect the preference and interest of local resident . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003113 ] Provision of Council Housing Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) council housing be the first , most important and only viable solution to the housing crisis and to create a society that match the hope of both the Labour movement and the wide public . not long ago , under the leadership of the current Prime Minister , Labour Front Benchers now sit in Cabinet declare that housing be a fundamental human right , that Labour would restore social housing as the second - large tenure ahead of the private rent sector and that the mantra of Ministers as they do so would be " council housing , council housing , council housing " . as voter continue to demand the change that the Labour Government be elect to deliver , now be the time to recapture the clarity and optimism of that vision . it bear repeat at the outset that solely expand the market supply of housing be not a solution to provide the genuinely affordable home that so many family across our country desperately need . accord to the charity Crisis , only 1 . 4 % of one to three - bedroom property in my constituency be affordable to renter who need housing benefit , while the number of people on the social housing waiting list in Wolverhampton have nearly triple in three year and rent have surge by over 35 % in the last five year . do my hon . friend agree that the housing emergency demand urgent and sustained action , and do he therefore welcome , as I do , this Government ' s commitment to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation ? I fully agree with my hon . friend . the point he raise perfectly exemplify why the provision of council housing be so important . England have see 724 , 000 more net additional dwelling than new household since 2015 , yet in the same period the number of household in England on local authority housing waiting list rise by more than 74 , 000 . give that 1 . 3 million household be on council housing waiting list , and give the previous Labour commitment to tackle the social housing crisis that he present , do the hon . Member agree that it be extraordinary that the Minister have repeatedly refuse to set a target for social housing ? the Government think that set a target for build any type of housing will address the housing crisis , but they be fail to address the specific problem of build social housing . I fully agree that council housing be essential to meet the housing crisis that we face , and I hope that we will hear ambitious remark from the Minister . the question be not simply how much housing be build , but the type of housing build and for whom . as have be reference , more than 1 . 3 million household in England be trap on waiting list — a rise of 10 % in the past two year alone . the scale of our failure to provide home for all our citizen be staggering and reveal in the stark possible term the absolute folly of rely on the private sector to meet the public ' s basic need . I commend the hon . member for secure the debate . in my office , as I suspect in everybody else ' s , benefit be the first issue of importance and housing be the second . one possible solution — I want to be constructive , and I show he this suggestion — be to focus on build small social housing unit , enable old couple to move out of family home , which be large and more difficult to heat . that would enable young family to stay within their community and old people to have home that be easy to heat . when it come to solution , it be also about that . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . as usual , he make a good point , and I wholly agree . as our whole nation lose out on the stifle energy , talent and creativity of so many people hold back by not have a secure home where they can put down root and flourish , it be ever clear that the magic of the invisible hand of the free market be little more than a fairy tale tell by economist to justify a refusal to meet our obligation to the least well - off member of society . however , if we look to our past for inspiration , we see many parallel between the challenge confront we now and those face the great post - war Labour Government who take office 80 year ago . then , Labour come into office determine to change the " devil take the hindmost " approach to housing policy in which , as Aneurin Bevan describe : " the high income group have their house ; the low income group have not . speculative builder , support enthusiastically , and even voraciously , by money - lend organisation , solve the problem of the high income group in the matter of housing " — [ Official Report , 17 October 1945 ; Vol . 414 , c . 1222 . ] while the rest be leave behind . Bevan ' s solution be to start at the other end and focus on meet the need of the work class . our current state of affair be much the same . we need the same priority to get to the root of the contemporary housing crisis , because while house price in many part of the country be eye - wateringly high for all , the reality be that high - income earner — frustrate though some of their ambition may be — can find a home , while too often those at the other end of the spectrum can not . simply flood the market with speculative development will not address the problem . the only way to get high - quality home that those on waiting list can actually afford be to directly plan and deliver housing for people on low income . that be why we must have council housing — not housing build to maximise profit for developer ’ shareholder — offer rent link to local income , and hundred of thousand of they . I will be quote Bevan extensively , give his achievement in deliver high - quality council housing in this country . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . since the Labour Government establish the social housing policy and build the house that be need , the number of council house have reduce as the Thatcher Government decide to sell those house off . I will not object to people buy their own home , but the Government of that time do not allow the money generate to be reinveste in social housing , so the social housing stock reduce over time and have not be replace . do he agree that the only way to address the issue be to replace the housing that be lose ? I agree with my hon . friend and will come to right to buy later in my speech . as Bevan describe , " the speculative builder , by his very nature , be not a plannable instrument . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 1946 ; Vol . 420 , c . 451 . ] they build what make they most money , while we need our council empower to assess the need of their community and directly deliver for they , because that be in the public interest . my hon . friend extensively quote Aneurin Bevan , a man with whom he share the honour of be unfairly suspend from the parliamentary Labour party . I be sure that , like Aneurin Bevan , he will return and go on to deliver great thing . do he agree that a mass council house building programme could help to drive down rent in the private sector , because it be the lack of council house provision that have allow private rent to rocket , price people out ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct in his assessment of one of the many benefit of council housing . the provision of council housing be uniquely important for meet the Government ' s objective , because of the risk in design housing policy around a target deliver by a market over which we have limit control . once again , Bevan be right when he say that commit to general housing target would be " crystal gazing " and " demagogic " . he also state : " the fact be that if at this moment we attempt to say that , by a certain date , we will be build a certain number of house , that statement would rest upon no firm basis of veracity " . — [ Official Report , 17 October 1945 ; Vol . 414 , c . 1232 . ] it be only with council housing supply directly by public authority that we can give real confidence to the electorate in our ability to deliver . the last time we be build 300 , 000 home a year , nearly half the total be council housing , and if we want to secure an increase in construction to 1 . 5 million new home over the course of this Parliament , the lion ' s share of the balance must come through council housing . I be really grateful to my hon . friend for secure today ' s debate . Bevan also say that only municipal authority could build the housing for our community , and it be in my constituency that council housing originate , thank to that great Committee with Wedgwood Benn and Joseph Rowntree . do my hon . friend agree that we need to restructure the housing revenue account debt so that local authority can borrow more in order to build the new council housing that we need ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I fully agree . before I get to cost , I would like we for a moment to lift our eye to the potential prize to be win by a new generation of council housing across the country , because council housing be not just the most effective tool we have to cut waiting list , it be not just the good policy for transform the future of the ten of thousand of child go to sleep every night in temporary accommodation , and it be not just the sure way to save billion of pound from the housing benefit bill . as if each of those be not justification enough in their own right , council housing be also the good hope we have to create the new community that foster the sort of life and society that the labour movement have always dream of and strive for . this do not seem to be debate too often in this place , but the build environment we go about our daily life in matter profoundly . the provision of council housing be not just about progress towards social justice and the eradication of inequality ; it be also about build a world around ourselves that contribute every day to the experience of self - worth , happiness , peace , connection and leisure in all our life . if we be to be judge by future generation , not just on how many house we build but on what we build , a policy dominate by council housing , with local authority in the drive seat able to plan and design development match the hope and identity of each community , be essential to avoid the condemnation of history . far too many of the estate throw up in recent year by the private sector have be notable mainly for their identikit and bland miserablism . even leave aside the appalling quality of new build housing on many speculative development , the status quo approach that housing policy have sink into have in effect create a new phenomenon of spiritual slum , where a near total lack of facility or feature capable of instill any sense of interest or civic pride condemn the young to a sentence of boredom . when we be build estate with more land give to car parking than space for child to play , rise disaffection and antisocial behaviour should not be a surprise to anyone . the choice face the Labour Government in the provision of council housing be therefore between socialism and delinquency . similarly , the record of private housing development when it come to integrate nature into our life , a basic need that we know more and more clearly be essential to our mental health , be shocking . research have find that environmental feature promise in planning condition be not be deliver almost half of the time . simple measure to help decline insect population , bird , bat and other iconic specie have all be regularly shirk by developer , and nearly half of the native hedge that be suppose to be lay do not exist . once again , public good , even when legally commit to , routinely fail to materialise when we rely on private interest to meet our nation ' s housing need . public - lead housing — council housing — offer the opportunity for different priority that at last deliver something well . just as 100 year ago the Independent Labour party trailblazer Ada Salter set about house the work class of Bermondsey while also improve their life by plant thousand of tree and fill open space with flower , so now we can have council housing that go hand in hand with nature . what be more , while so - call affordable housing set at 80 % of market rate be often use to justify speculative development , in reality it continue to price key worker out of many part of the country . the promise of a new era of council housing , in which rent be link to local income , would create a more democratic and less stratified society in which people of all income live side by side . I would welcome the Minister ' s reassurance that at least 60 % of the affordable home programme will be home for social rent or council housing . prioritise council - lead delivery should also mean great public accountability for maintenance and tenant support . that , sadly , be often lack where housing association have move too far from their original purpose . if we want genuinely affordable home for those currently price out of the housing market , well place making , green and more integrated community , and all the thing that our constituent be demand , so that we can go from wish for a well society to that be the live reality across our nation , we must have housing fund by patient capital that can focus on wide benefit , rather than mere monetary calculation . across the country , the evidence could not be clear : only public funding be capable of mobilise the necessary resource at the scale require through long - term investment to deliver the public good so conspicuously absent in recent year . over six year , at a time of shortage , debt , constraint , and compete demand on public expenditure that be even great than our , the post - war Labour Government oversee the construction of more than 800 , 000 council house — some of the good ever build in this country . will the hon . member give way ? I have well make some progress . that be the yardstick the Government should measure themselves against . I now come at last to how we might go about achieve this . the place to start , as we have already hear , be with plug the gap . we must stop drain our stock of council house , year on year . it be a fact of mesmerise absurdity that in the last year of the previous Conservative Government , there be a net loss of social housing in this country , as over 20 , 000 home for social rent be lose to right to buy . I welcome the determination of Labour Ministers to reform the right to buy , and to ensure that more home be build than lose , and I especially welcome the plan 35 - year exemption for newly build property . I urge the Government to bring forward the necessary legislation for those change as swiftly as possible . next , we need far plan reform to empower our local authority to drive forward a council housing renaissance up and down the land . we need new social housing target , to make the delivery of council housing the urgent priority of every local planning authority . minister must bring together local authority and charity like Crisis to create fair rule for eligibility for social housing , so that homeless people be no long unfairly exclude . we need to build on the welcome measure that minister have already bring forward on hope value , by allow local authority to disregard it entirely for the purpose of purchase land to meet housing target . that would not only make the provision of council housing on a vastly increase scale viable by end the payment of inflated sum of public money to wealthy landowner , slash an estimate 38 % off the total development cost of a mass - scale building programme ; it would also allow local authority to capture the full uplift in land value associate with the delivery of their local plan , and to fund project that combine high - quality council housing with improved space for nature and expand public infrastructure . we must also face up to the reality of serious constraint on construction capacity due to a workforce that be too small and an inadequate supply of key material . if we be to have the hundred of thousand of council house that we need in order to swiftly tackle the housing crisis , the Government should ensure that the new strategic planning authority create through devolution have tool at their disposal to direct available resource where they be need most , even if that mean put limit on construction for private profit . of course , many of our local authority will need substantial support to rebuild the capacity necessary for a major council house building programme . as Shelter have say , in try to balance budget after year of funding cut , local authority have be force to shut down their building operation , transfer their council stock to housing association or focus on build private home for sale . we will only see the council housing that our country desperately need if we reverse that trend . alongside make more low - interest loan available to council through the Public Works Loan Board , the Government should raise the money need to invest in a new generation of local authority planner , ecologist , designer and architect through a windfall tax on the large property developer , which have dominate the market and enjoy super - normal profit for too long . on funding , the Government have already commit to a transformative £ 39 billion over 10 year for the new affordable home programme . I will not try the Minister ' s patience by call for additional money today , but front - load this investment and drive it primarily towards council housing could see we well on our way . I recognise that , even with all that , match the scale of council housing delivery oversee by Attlee ' s Government be a daunting task , but in the context of the upcoming Budget and increasingly vociferous debate on the merit of a wealth tax , I will take this opportunity to briefly fly the flag for the comparatively straightforward proposal of a levy on multiple home ownership . with so many in our society unable to access suitable housing at all , require those who own multiple home to contribute to the public coffer a small percentage of the value of their additional property would be both fair and proportionate . that leave a final , concluding point . the case for more council housing and what it could deliver for our society be overwhelming in its own right , but even if we be to reduce ourselves to desiccated calculate machine , concern only with economic statistic , the irrefutable fact be that we can not afford not to invest in hundred of thousand of new council house over the come year . a major council house building programme would deliver a huge counter - cyclical boost to economic activity in every region of the country . alongside the vast saving to be make on the cost of temporary accommodation provide by council , there would be knock - on benefit from secure decent home : they would reduce cost right across the public sector , from the NHS to our school . in short , it would be fiscally reckless not to invest in a new generation of council housing . we all deserve a warm , safe and affordable home , where we can put down root and have the safety and security to flourish and grow . it be our duty to make that a reality . hundred of thousand of family can not afford for we to delay or go slow . now be the time for the Government to live up to their heritage and provide a new era of council housing that transform life up and down the country . I congratulate the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) on secure the debate , and thank the other hon . member who have make contribution to it . the provision of council housing be of the utmost importance to this Government . after decade of marginalisation , we be once again assert the necessity and value of social and council housing , as a crucial national asset to be proud of , to invest in , to protect and to maintain . do so be imperative , because successive Government have , for decade , fail to build sufficient number of social and council home in England , and that failure be at the heart of the acute and entrenched housing crisis we face today . as have be note , as a result of diminish social and affordable housing supply , particularly in the wake of the coalition Government ' s decision in 2010 to slash grant funding for affordable home , over 1 . 3 million household now languish on local authority waiting list , million of low - income family have be force into insecure , unaffordable and often substandard private rent housing , and , to our shame as a nation , over 169 , 000 child will go to sleep tonight in temporary accommodation . acutely conscious that it would not be quick or easy , we enter government determine to turn that situation around , and that be precisely what we have begin to do . in the brief time available to I , I will detail how the Government be kick - start a decade of social and affordable housing renewal , and set out the way in which we have lay the groundwork for a reinvigoration of council house building . as the House will know , the Government stand for election on a clear manifesto commitment to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . we do so to address the urgent need to provide home for those for whom the market can not cater , but also because the provision of social and affordable housing support wide housing delivery . we know , for example , that on site where more than 40 % of home be affordable , build - out rate be twice as fast . boost the supply of social and affordable home be therefore at the heart of our effort to ramp up housing supply more generally , and to meet housing need and housing demand in full across the country . give that the Minister feel that social housing be so important , can he explain why he will not set a target for it ? the hon . Member will know that we have not set a target as thing stand , for the reason that we have debate on many occasion , but we keep the matter under review . the question be why . and we have debate that issue on many , many occasion . I have give the hon . Member very detailed answer as to why , at this point in time , we have not set a target , but we will keep it under review . as I have say , boost the supply of social and affordable home be at the heart of our effort to ramp up housing supply more generally , and because direct delivery by council have be key to high rate of house building in the past , get council building again be an essential part of our strategy . on social and council housing , the Government have put their money where their mouth be . as the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire make clear , at the spending review we announce £ 39 billion for a successor to the affordable home programme over 10 year from 2026 - 27 to 2035 - 36 . I can confirm that give the priority this Government accord to social rent housing , at least 60 % of home deliver through the programme will be for social rent . accurately forecast long - term delivery be inherently challenging — that be one of the reason we have not set a social affordable housing target to date — but we believe our grant - fund social and affordable home programme could deliver around 300 , 000 social and affordable home over its lifetime , with around 180 , 000 be for social rent . the programme will continue to support regeneration scheme that provide a net increase in home . it will also permit a limited number of acquisition . we know these two delivery avenue be important to council , include those with old home and those who be look to rapidly grow their housing portfolio to deal with acute local pressure . we also recognise that certain type of much - need social and affordable housing can cost more to deliver , include those build by council . that be why the programme have be design to be flexible in order to support the great diversity of supply require , with council encourage not to self - censor when come forward with bid . to improve financial capacity , to deliver new supply and support long - term planning , for the first time , we announce a 10 - year social housing rent policy at the spending review . in addition , we have recently complete a consultation on how to implement a social rent convergence mechanism , the outcome of which will be confirm at the autumn Budget . the inclusion of this mechanism will be beneficial to council , with many authority let home below formula rent . both these measure will support their capacity to borrow and invest in new and exist home . beyond investment , we have develop a series of measure design to enhance council ' confidence , capacity and capability to deliver , and I want to cover some of they as they directly address the subject of the debate . as the hon . Gentleman be aware and have note , one of the Government ' s early act be to introduce transformative change to the right to buy . we want to retain a scheme that help long - stand tenant to buy their own home , but we could not ignore the detrimental impact the right to buy be have on exist stock and council ' confidence to deliver new social and affordable housing . so we take decisive action to deliver a fair , more sustainable scheme that provide well value for money and create the certainty for council to once again build at scale . change that have already come into effect include return the maximum cash discount to between £ 16 , 000 and £ 38 , 000 . we have also enable council to keep 100 % of their right to buy receipt for reinvestment in new and exist home . but we will not stop there . follow consultation , we will legislate for a more comprehensive set of reform when parliamentary time allow . these reform will include a 35 - year exemption from the scheme for newly build home , and a first option for council to repurchase home acquire through right to buy if they be sell on . on top of this , from 2026 - 27 , we will act on a long - stand ask from council by allow they to combine right to buy receipt with grant funding from the social and affordable home programme . in addition to revenue generate from sale through right to buy and capital subsidy , we know how important borrowing be to council ' delivery plan . since 2023 , a preferential borrowing rate have be available from the Public Works Loan Board for council house building . so far , this preferential rate have enable council to borrow £ 6 billion for investment in new and exist home . I be conscious that this rate be due to expire at the end of this financial year , and recognise the call from council for long - term certainty . consider this , we will confirm our approach to this discount rate at the autumn Budget . many of the measure I have mention so far relate to council ' financial capacity , yet we know — the hon . Gentleman again mention this — that the challenge they face be not solely financial , and that as rate of delivery have decline in recent decade , so too have the skill and capacity of their housing team . in response , in partnership with Homes England and the Local Government Association , we have launch the council house building skill and capacity programme , back by £ 12 million of funding this year . this programme aim to upskill council ' exist workforce , recruit and train new graduate to become qualified surveyor and construction project manager , and drive engagement with the social and affordable home programme . to conclude , this Government remain firmly committed to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . within that commitment , we have prioritise the delivery of social rent home , and we be take step to enable council — whether those already deliver or those with closed housing revenue account who want to deliver — to once again build at scale . we have achieve an incredible amount over the space of just 14 month , but there be much more to come . we will continue to engage with council and pull every lever at our disposal to increase their confidence , capacity and capability to deliver the social home that low - income family across the nation need to live , grow and build a well life for themselves . question put and agree to . House adjourn .