I congratulate the hon . member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) on secure the debate . I could easily spend my whole speech talk about the challenge of increase girl ' participation in PE and sport in school . despite the progress make through initiative such as the " this Girl can " campaign , there be still a gender gap , with only 32 % of girl age five to 15 achieve the recommend 60 minute of physical activity each day compare to 41 % of boy , accord to Sport England ' s " active life " survey in 2023 . we have come a long way since my schoolday in the ' 80 , when girl over eight be not allow to play competitive mixed football and there be no girl ' team I could join . I have be delighted to see the great stride make in woman ' s football in recent year and it be a joy to join a girl ' training session at Pucklechurch primary school recently . the 20 - plus girl run around on a very small pitch show that girl really do like football . however , I want to focus today on a different area of inequality : the participation in PE of child and young people with special educational need and disability . I be pleased that the hon . Lady raise this issue in her speech . child with SEND be one and a half time more likely to be inactive compare to their peer without SEND . we know the benefit that physical activity can bring : improve mental and physical health , boost self - esteem , and important social opportunity for SEND student . so , what be the barrier ? only 14 % of PE teacher feel fully confident in adapt activity for child with SEND , accord to research by the Youth Sport Trust . there be a significant gap in teacher training for inclusive sport . school often lack access to the necessary adaptive equipment , make it difficult for SEND student to engage in physical activity on an equal footing with their peer . provision be inconsistent , with some school able to offer much more well - develop programme for SEND student than other . one consequence of that , which may surprise some , be that it can lead to increase absence for SEND student . the Youth Sport Trust have highlight that pupil with SEND be more likely to experience disengagement in physical education , which can lead to increase school absence . a report from Scope , a lead disability charity , find that child with SEND who feel exclude from physical activity be at high risk of develop mental health challenge , which can far exacerbate absence . a study by the National Autistic Society find that student with autism , in particular , be more likely to be absent from school when PE lesson be not adapt to their need , with absence increase by up to 20 % for those student . to tackle that , Scope call for more accessible PE facility and training for teacher on how to adapt physical activity for SEND student . it emphasise the importance of inclusive support , suggest that school offer a broad range of activity that cater to different ability , from wheelchair sport to multi - sensory activity . the National Autistic Society stress the importance of clear communication , structured environment and sensory friendly approach , while Special Olympics Great Britain highlight that a key barrier for child with SEND be the lack of mainstream sport club that offer inclusive programme , urge school and community to create partnership with local club , offer pathway to competitive sport for SEND child and foster an inclusive and welcome environment . on that , I would like to highlight the work of Yate ' s acrobatic gymnastic centre . contrary to the hon . member for Stafford , I do think this will require some funding for adaptive equipment and the specialist training for staff . I will conclude by highlight the work do by the charity Gympanzees , which be currently fundraise to open in my constituency the UK ' s first fully accessible exercise , play and social centre for disabled child and young people . I have the privilege of visit its pop - up offering before I be an MP , where I see for myself the fantastic holiday activity it provide with an array of specialist equipment and dedicated staff . it have have a massive impact on its user ' live , whether that be the three - year - old laughing for the first time , the 16 - year - old who have refuse any form of sport at home and school but who row a kilometre on their rowing machine , the nine - year - old who hold up his head on his own for 10 minute for the first time , or the 57 child and young people who be able to walk for the first time , use the specialist equipment . open this permanent home for the charity ' s activity will allow it to offer scheme not only in school holiday but year round , and would give the centre the scope to open up its facility for other organisation to use , include school . gympanzee have already raise more than half of its £ 8 million target to fit out the facility . I have previously write to Ministers ask they to consider contribute to the funding of this centre as a pilot facility — a model that could be roll out across other region to help to inform provision in and provide training for our school . I ask they to look again at the huge benefit this project could bring for child with complex need and the potential it have to deliver access to PE for child who currently miss out . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) for secure this debate . she make some fantastic and profound point in her speech . like the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , I will focus on disability sport . in school across the country , three in four disabled child do not take part in PE regularly , and four in 10 confide that they would like to take part in more sport if it be offer . we should not underestimate the impact this have on these child , with disabled child already face exclusion and 72 % of they report feel lonely . I know this from my own experience , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have not play sport since I be 13 . I have an accident in year 8 where I shatter my hip ; I do not walk for four year , and then have a hip replacement in sixth form . a challenge a lot of child who be disabled face in similar situation be that play football and other sport be how child often build common bond with their friend ; it be what they do together and what they talk about . be exclude from that have far wide repercussion . this have be a big priority for I in my constituency . I pay tribute today to the work of paralympicsgb , the Youth Sport Trust and other ; they really recognise this and be do lot of important local work to improve it . we have some fantastic project and organisation in Beckenham and Penge that be use their own initiative to increase the participation of disabled people in sport . in Crystal Palace , the National Sports Centre be undergo a multimillion - pound refurbishment to secure its facility for future use and , crucially , to make they accessible . I think 19 world record have be set in Crystal Palace , but wheelchair user currently can not get to the pool and a lot of the other facility . as member will know , this issue be close to my heart , and I be proud that this facility in my constituency will be make fully accessible and will be one of the good facility not just in London but across the country for disabled sport go forward . I want to put on the record my thank to Sir Sadiq Khan , the team at the Greater London Authority , include project manager Ben Woods , and Councillors Ruth McGregor and Ryan Thompson , and to the Crystal Palace Sports Partnership , with John Powell and Fran Bernstein , who have really bring people together and make this happen . Crystal Palace football club and the charity Palace for Life Foundation do genuinely incredible work right across south London , include at the National Sports Centre , to support disabled people and other . as part of this work , the foundation host football session for those with down ' s syndrome and visual impairment , as well as powerchair football . one of the point that I often try to make to people be that , of all the protect characteristic define by the Equality Act 2010 , disability be by far the most diverse . we also talk of specific disability , such as autism and cerebral palsy , as have spectrum . the challenge for disabled sport be really comprehensive , but we have expert by experience — people with disability who understand how good to bridge that gap and make inclusion possible . it be fantastic that the Schools Minister have recognise this . I know that she have speak about the need for increased PE in school for disabled child . if I speak to some of the local school in my constituency , I be tell that have other facility outside school be absolutely essential . it would be remiss of I not also to mention Kent County Cricket Club in Beckenham , which , alongside manage two disability team , run a regular Friday night disability cricket session in Beckenham for child and young people . it have be fantastic to see a renew focus on access to disability sport both in Government and in my local community , especially follow the Paralympics . increase access to PE and sport be not something that will happen if we sit back and wait for it . inclusion be not just an absence of exclusion , and achieve equity will require an active effort from all to get involve . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Stafford for secure this debate .