prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . infected Blood Inquiry with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to provide an update on the Government ' s progress in respond to the infected blood inquiry ' s report . I start by reiterate that the inquiry ' s final report lay bare harrowing aspect of the scandal that make it vital that we provide regular update on this work . the infected blood scandal be an injustice on an unprecedented scale that span decade . thousand of people have die and , sadly , continue to die every week . life have be shatter and the voice of victim have be ignore for decade . People have watch their love one die and — this be one of the most chilling fact that the inquiry bring to light — child be use as object of research . it be hard to conceive of the scale of the damage do and the incredible suffering of all those impact . on 20 May , the country bear witness to the devastating finding of the infected blood inquiry ' s report . it be a national moment , a profound moment of shame for the british state , and a moment of long - overdue recognition for the victim and their loved one . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister , in his former role as Leader of the Opposition , acknowledge that " suffering be cause by wrongdoing , delay and systemic failure " by all party " across the board , compound by institutional defensiveness . " — [ Official Report , 20 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 667 . ] the former Prime Minister issue an apology on behalf of the state for the devastating impact that the use of infected blood and infected blood product have have on countless life . today , on behalf of this Government , I reiterate that deep and heartfelt sorry . first , let I reassure the House that the Government be commit to act on the finding of the infected blood inquiry report to ensure swift resolution . we be also commit to work cross - party , and will work with other to deliver the compensation scheme and get final payment to victim as soon as possible . it be vital that we shine a penetrate light on the lesson that must be learn , and that include pay comprehensive compensation to those infect and affect by the infected blood scandal . I would like to thank hon . member who have play prominent role in push the work to this point . the Minister of State , Home Department , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , have always be — and I know will continue to be — a powerful advocate for this cause . her work in push forward the cause and represent the voice of those infect and affected be unquestionably pivotal to our reach this point . I also thank my predecessor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . as I say yesterday in Cabinet Office question , I be grateful for his work in the lead - up to the announcement of the compensation scheme , and for his collegiate approach . I hope that we can continue to work together on this important issue . the scale of the horror that be uncover by Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report almost defy belief . one of the issue that the report bring to light be the importance of address the unacceptable culture of defensiveness in the public sector . we must make sure that people ' s reputation and protect institution be never put above public service . this government will bring forward legislation to place a duty of candour on public servant and authority to make sure that this kind of behaviour can not happen again . that legislation must be the catalyst for a change culture in the public sector by improve transparency and accountability . it will address the culture of defensiveness and help ensure that the lack of candour uncover in the infected blood scandal — and , indeed , in too many other instance , such as Hillsborough and Horizon — be not repeat . we recognise that as well as deliver institutional change , we must provide financial redress to people whose life have be irreversibly and tragically change as a result of the infected blood scandal . one of the most powerful conclusion in the inquiry ' s report be that an apology be meaningful only if it be accompany by action , and it be now my responsibility to carry forward this action . I hope to lead that work not only with the support of this House , but with sensitivity and respect towards the people who have be so unfairly affect by this scandal . after all that have happen , listen to the voice of victim be crucial , and I will endeavour to work closely with the infected blood community as we progress this work . I would also like to update the House on the progress be make in establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 legally create the authority on 24 May , and since that point , the interim chief executive David Foley have be work closely with Sir Robert Francis KC , the interim chair , to set up the compensation service . it be , frankly , no small task . the Cabinet Office be support the organisation as it recruit and set up a service that be easy to access and simple to use . the authority will provide regular update to the infected blood community and all other interested in its work . let I turn to compensation . on 21 May , I welcome the former Administration ' s announcement on compensation . there be an urgent need to get money to people in the most timely way possible . on 24 June , further interim payment of £ 210 , 000 be make to beneficiary of the infected blood support scheme live with infection , bring the total pay in compensation to victim to more than £ 1 billion . however , we recognise that this be not enough , give that many other have also be wait for far too long . the Cabinet Office be work closely with the Department of Health and Social Care , the devolve government and the administrator of the exist infected blood support scheme to establish the process for make interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of deceased people who be infect with contaminate blood or blood product , and whose death have not yet be recognise . work be progress to ensure that these payment be make as soon as we be able to . I be pleased to confirm to the House today that application for these payment will open in October , and we will set out further detail in due course . there be also the matter of the final compensation scheme . we be commit to deliver this work quickly . we be also committed to get it right . the propose compensation scheme be publish on gov . uk on 21 May , and we be committed , as I indicate yesterday to the shadow Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury , to make regulation to establish the scheme by 24 August , as we be oblige to by the Victims and Prisoners Act . however , we also recognise the importance of build support and trust among those who will access the scheme . Sir Robert Francis undertake an engagement exercise in June at the former Government ' s request , with the support of all party . the exercise engage those who have be most impact by the scandal on the content of the compensation scheme . I have be engage with Sir Robert to hear his advice follow his meeting with member of the infected blood community . I be consider his advice carefully , with a view to publish both his report and the Government ' s position on it in advance of 24 August . finally , I reassure the House that there will be an opportunity to fully debate the content of the inquiry ' s final report . I be conscious that give the timing of the recent election , there have not yet be time for right hon . and hon . member to do so . it be essential , in my view , that member of this House have enough time to digest and debate the devastating finding of the report . the Government be consider Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation , and we will provide an update to Parliament by the end of the year on the progress that we be make on respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation , as Sir Brian recommend in the report . the infected blood scandal be one of the grave injustice this country have see . I want to end by pay tribute to the courage and determination of the victim of this scandal — those infected and those affect who fight so hard for justice . at every debate on this issue , we remember that they be at the centre of all this . it be for they that we must come together to restore the sense that this be a country that can rectify injustice . they deserve nothing less . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your elevation . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement , and thank he very much for the customarily early sight of his statement this morning . the finding of the infected blood inquiry remain a shameful moment for the british state . first of all , I reiterate our apology to all those whose life have be change as a result of this appalling tragedy , which never should have happen . on 20 May 2024 , the day of the inquiry ' s final report , the then Prime Minister confirm that the Government would pay comprehensive compensation to those who have be affect and infect , as quickly as possible . before the election be call , on 22 May , I take a number of step to ensure that interim compensation of £ 210 , 000 would be pay as quickly as possible to those register with exist infected blood support scheme , as well as those who register with the support scheme before the final scheme become operational , and to the estate of those who pass away between then and payment be make . I be delighted that the Paymaster General this morning confirm that over £ 1 billion have now be pay during the run - up to the general election . the legislation pass on 24 May establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to administer the compensation scheme , and appoint Sir Robert Francis as the interim chair . Sir Robert have previously lead the infected blood compensation framework study , and I understand from engagement with senior official right up till the day of the general election that he undertake a meaningful series of engagement meeting , as the right hon . Gentleman confirm , with representative of the infected and affected community during the purdah period . we also accept the then Opposition ' s call for regulation to set up the scheme to be make within three month of the legislation receive Royal Assent . we ask for an update to be provide to the House within 25 sit day of the inquiry ' s final report be publish . I believe that the statement this morning honour that . I welcome the fact that the new Government have continue to prioritise this issue , and to keep the House and , of course , the victim and their family update on progress . however , there remain question , and matter on which I think the infected and affected blood community would , respectfully , expect I to challenge the Government . will the Paymaster General confirm that the debate that I promise after the Whitsun recess could be schedule for September ? that would give member a reasonable amount of time over the recess to study this considerable report . will he reiterate my commitment to respond to Sir Brian ' s recommendation one by one , as quickly as possible , within a comprehensive response to the report ? I be grateful today that the Paymaster General be consider the advice from Sir Robert ' s engagement with the infected blood community in June . I hope that he will not just consider it , but decide to publish it in advance of the 24 August deadline for make regulation . in my modest experience , any regulation lay would be open to misinterpretation unless the Government set out Sir Robert ' s consider reflection on the engagement exercise that he supervise and his consider judgment on what change , if any , to qualifying criterion and parameter may be require to ensure that the scheme have maximum credibility . I believe that the Paymaster General ' s new ministerial colleague , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , would also advise he that maximum early transparency will yield maximum understanding and acceptance of the path forward . I be anxious that the guard optimism I hear during my 18 meeting with representative from 40 group in May will be sustain , and that the good will generate on the path the delivery will not be squander . I give my commitment this morning that I will seek to support the Paymaster General as he complete the delicate process of finalise regulation by build on the engagement exercise and the invaluable work of Sir Jonathan Montgomery and his expert team . on wide matter , can the Paymaster General confirm that the £ 1 billion he refer to represent the completion of the 90 - day interim compensation commitment , or indicate to the House what quantum be outstanding and confirm that that will be pay within the 90 day that I set out on 21 May ? it be critical that Sir Brian ' s forensic assessment of culpability across the medical , civil service and ministerial domain be properly address as part of the Government ' s evolve think on legislation on the duty of candour . while recognise that this be ultimately a matter for this House , it would be good if the Paymaster General could define what role the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee could play in scrutinise the Government ' s progress . follow my statement on 21 May , the Paymaster General refer to potential criminal charge and ask I to ensure that all relevant evidence would be make available for consideration by the prosecute authority . will he update the House now on whether he be in a position to be able to do so ? I also ask he to reiterate my acknowledgement of the call for memorialisation and to say whether he will appropriately frame the commitment the Government will make to the recommendation by the end of 2024 , as I commit to do . finally , I wish the Paymaster General every success in this delicate work . I believe that he be well support by an excellent team of civil servant to complete this work , and he will have my full support as he operationalise the legislation that the previous Government pass on 24 May . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the characteristically collegiate way in which he approach his perfectly reasonable question . I shall deal with they one by one . I will certainly push for the debate to be schedule as soon as possible . it be really important that across the House we be able to comprehensively consider not just the recommendation , but the level and scale of the criticism that have be make . yes , the Government will respond one by one to the 12 recommendation make by Sir Brian Langstaff . in relation to Sir Robert Francis , I entirely agree with the right hon . Gentleman about the need for transparency . I certainly undertake to publish those finding and that report ahead of the regulation to operationalise the scheme be lay by 24 August . in relation to the right hon . member ' s point about the 90 day , my understanding be that the payment be complete on 24 June , which be within that 90 - day period , but there will be , as I announce in my statement , additional interim payment to the estate of infected people and that process will begin from October . with regard to parliamentary scrutiny , I welcome the scrutiny that there rightly will be on this , whether it be by PACAC or , indeed , by the House more generally . I certainly undertake , as the right hon . Gentleman do , to ensure that all relevant information be provide to the prosecute authority as they see fit for any action that need to be take against specific individual . finally , in respect of memorialisation , Sir Brian Langstaff set out that there should be memorial in the constituent part of the United Kingdom , and also a specific memorial to those child who be send to Treloar ' s for protection , but who end up in the hideous situation of be experiment on when they be at their most vulnerable . I look forward to take forward the process , as the right hon . Gentleman commit to do , of ensure that we do have appropriate memorialisation , which be crucial to recognise the scale of what happen . may I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your elevation to your position ? I welcome the Minister ' s statement this morning , but can he say a little more about how the compensation authority will arrive at its decision ? there be concern that adviser have undue influence on the Cabinet Office and that the voice of those who have be infect and affect be not be hear sufficiently in this process . there be concern about the compensation process and whether that will be in addition to , or conflate with , support payment ; the non - payment of exemplary or punitive damage ; the lack of recognition of the impact of illegal experimentation or the knowing use of contaminate blood product ; and the payment that will be make to estate where people have die . the people who really should be scrutinise this be those who have be infect and affect , so will the Minister commit to involve they in the compensation authority , so that they can have confidence in the decision that be be make ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . first , may I say that , of course , the voice of victim should be absolutely central to this . I thank Sir Robert Francis for the work that he do in the general election purdah period to ensure that that be the case . I will consider very carefully the recommendation that Sir Robert make on the basis of that engagement and hear the voice of the victim . I want to deal with one other point that my hon . Friend raise , which be to do with the future of the infected blood support scheme . I understand that there have be concern about this . the current proposal be that no immediate change will be make to the infected blood support scheme . payment will continue to be make at the same level until 31 March next year , and they will not be deduct from any compensation award . from 1 April next year , people who receive the England infect blood support scheme payment will continue to receive they until such time that their case be assess under the new scheme by the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . once assess under the scheme , the applicant will be able to choose how to receive their compensation , either as a lump - sum or periodic payment . I hope that that give my hon . friend the reassurance he seek . I have absolute confidence in Sir Robert Francis to run the Infected Blood Compensation Authority in an entirely appropriate way . I be in the Chamber when his appointment as the interim chair be announce , and it be welcome warmly , as I recall , from the Public Gallery by the infected blood community . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair follow your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Paymaster General for early sight of his statement , and I welcome the tone and the cross - party approach that have be take on this serious issue . victim of the infected blood scandal and their family have be wait for decade to see justice . as we know , tragically , thousand have die without ever receive compensation . the report of the inquiry into the scandal chair by Sir Brian Langstaff lay bare the suffering inflict , the cover - up and the systemic failure across the british state . not only do the state fail to help the victim , but in many case people be lie to , treat with contempt and outright dismiss . now we have the evidence , and we have hear and read the most personal and courageous testimony from victim . one of my constituent in North East Fife be a participant in the inquiry , and I have meet other in the constituency . it be imperative that every one of we work across the aisle to deliver this effective and just compensation scheme . we welcome the work by Sir Robert Francis and David Foley in set up the ibca . it be clear that transparency be vital in establish trust between the IBCA and the infected blood community , so I be pleased to hear that the ibca meet with the community over the election period , but I would be grateful for more detail from the Paymaster General about what the ongoing work with the community will look like . not only do we have a duty to support the victim and their family with a fair compensation settlement , but , in order to create a lasting solution , we must ensure that the state can not let such scandal happen again . therefore , I be glad that the Paymaster General agree that we need to adopt a duty of candour for public official to ensure that victim be never treat in this manner again . give that we have so many inquiry ongoing , can he give more detail on when the legislation on candour that he refer to will be bring forward ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for those question , and I look forward to work with she on this issue on a cross - party basis throughout the next few month and , I suspect , for quite a bit long . I really do echo her point about the need for cross - party working . the hon . Lady make a very fair point about the need to establish trust between the victim and the compensation body ; that will be vital . she also ask I to say a little more about the voice of victim be hear . it will be for the Government to consider Sir Robert Francis ' s recommendation , which follow on from his extensive engagement with victim and victim ' group during the purdah period . as I say to the shadow Paymaster General a moment or two ago , I agree with he entirely about the need for transparency in the publication of Sir Robert Francis ' s work and report ahead of 24 August . I will be write to the victim ' group to ensure that their voice continue to be hear . the duty of candour stand alongside other measure that we be bring forward , include the public advocate and ensure that family who find themselves in the tragic situation that many do with Hillsborough be able to be appropriately represent at inquest . we need to see those measure as a collective package , but we will be bring they forward as soon as we can . my constituent Justine and Rachel Gordon - Smith lose their father six year ago on Wednesday . he suffer from haemophilia and be give infected blood in the 1980 . I welcome today ' s statement . the current compensation scheme make provision for child of affected person only while they be under the age of 18 , which do not take into account the long - term impact face by my constituent . will my right hon . friend meet I and my constituent to discuss this matter and ensure that the scheme support all affected person in Edinburgh North and Leith and across the country ? first , I think the whole House will have every sympathy with the situation that my hon . friend ' s constituent and their family find themselves in . in the scheme , there be of course those who be infect and those who be affect , who include partner , parent , child , sibling and , quite rightly , those who provide care to infected people , because there be often situation where the carer be not necessarily close relative but none the less provide significant care . if my hon . friend could please write to I , I can ensure that there be an appropriate ministerial meeting . I too congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your recent elevation . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , which be very welcome . I echo his word by acknowledge that the infected blood inquiry be one of the great scandal of our age . I pay tribute to the victim and their family , who have fight tirelessly to bring matter to this point . I be glad to hear that the Minister be commit to meet the 24 August deadline for lay regulation to establish the final compensation scheme , but I be a little disappointed that he do not set out a full timescale for the full operation of the scheme . it would be helpful if he say a little more about that . will he comment on his commitment to work closely with the Scottish Government on the scheme ' s implementation in Scotland , to ensure that victim seek redress face no further delay ? I echo what the hon . Gentleman say about the scale of the scandal and his appropriate tribute to the victim . on the timescale , as I indicate in my statement , the additional interim payment to the estate of the infected will start from October . as I indicate at question yesterday in respect of the full scheme , I would expect the final compensation payment to start be pay from the end of this year . it be my intention to meet the Health Ministers of the devolved Administrations in my native Wales , in Scotland and in Northern Ireland . I be committed to work with the devolved administration . as I indicate early , they will have a key role to play in the memorialisation process , too . I congratulate you on your new position , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the Front Benchers to their role and thank they for the content and tone of the statement — my constituent will welcome that update . however , this be not an isolated incident in which the state have fail to protect its citizen . we have have the Horizon Post Office scandal , the Hillsborough family , and the child migration scheme — a matter in which I must declare an interest — for which former Prime Minister Gordon Brown give a national apology back in 2010 . will the Paymaster General assure I and my constituent that the Government be commit to bring about the culture change that be so clearly need , as those scandal show ? yes , I can give that commitment . I should really emphasise its importance . as I indicate a moment or two ago , we be commit to the introduction of a duty of candour ; we be commit to ensure that family be support at inquest and inquiry , particularly for situation such as Hillsborough ; and we be commit to a public advocate . those be all really important step that we need to take . ultimately , that have to be accompany by leadership and a change of culture , to move away from what Sir Brian Langstaff describe as " institutional defensiveness . " that be absolutely critical . as your constituency neighbour , may I congratulate you on your elevation to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I must put on record my sheer admiration for one of my constituent , Clive Smith , who chair the Haemophilia Society . when I be first elect to this place in 2019 , one of my very first constituency meeting be with Clive at his home , to talk specifically about the importance of push these matter through the House . I thank the previous and current Government for their collective work to get the House to this position of provide reassurance to those who have be impact . I also thank the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her work as part of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood . there be still concern about how the payment will be make to the estate of those who have die . there be a risk that if such payment be make to the estate , they will be direct away from those who have be most impact . my understanding be that it be currently expect that the executor of will will decide how compensation payment be make to family member , and the payment may not go to those who have be most impact . how will the Paymaster General ensure that the payment get to those who be most impact ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . I echo his tribute to his constituent Clive Smith for all his remarkable campaigning over many year . in respect of the hon . Gentleman ' s second point on the probate process and ensure that the money actually reach those it be suppose to reach , the Government be consider how we can well support victim through the probate process . I hope to have further detail on that in due course . huge congratulation to you on your elevation , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her dog work in get everybody to this point . I want to raise with the Minister the interesting report that have come out from the National Audit Office this week , which look at compensation scheme across the piece and make recommendation to the Cabinet Office . as my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) say , there have be a number of compensation scheme , but they seem to be ad hoc , and lesson be not always learn about how to deliver they , so victim in the middle get squeeze . I hope that my right hon . friend the Minister can tell we that he will be consider that and come out with recommendation in due course . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . she be entirely right that we need to learn lesson from previous compensation scheme , where they have go well , and , frankly , where they have go not so well — where , after look at and reflect upon they , we see that the proportion of money that we want to go to victim do not quite make it . I certainly give the reassurance that we be look at those previous scheme and try to learn good practice from they . congratulation on your elevation , Madam Deputy Speaker . this statement be welcome in my constituency , where it be estimate that between 80 and 100 people be infect with HIV and approximately 26 , 800 be infect with hepatitis C after a blood transfusion . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the campaigner who have fight so hard to move this campaign and search for justice forward for those victim ? I certainly join my hon . friend in do that . as we speak today , we really should recognise that it take decade — a frankly unacceptable length of time — for people to achieve justice in this scandal . not only do we have that profound moment when Sir Brian Langstaff announce the inquiry ' s report , but it be so important that we now take the time that be necessary to learn the lesson for the future . I thank my right hon . friend for this update . he mention that one of the crucial point in this scandal be the fact that child be identify because of their genetic condition . would my right hon . friend explain how that issue will be look at ? how on earth can we compensate child who be identify at a very young age ? many of they have since die . they need substantial compensation and much more support than I think they be currently get . my hon . friend refer to one of the most chilling aspect of this scandal . there be no varnish this ; the reality be that child with haemophilia go to an institution — Treloar ' s school — for protection . the school be set up in such a way that it be mean to give reassurance to parent that their child ' s condition would be appropriately care for , but they be actually use for medical experimentation . it be absolutely shameful and appalling . of course my hon . friend be right about appropriate compensation , but it be also vital that , as we go through Sir Brian Langstaff ' s 12 recommendation , we put in place procedure , standard and structure so that something like that can never happen again . last week in my constituency I meet Mike and Diana Blake , who tell I the harrowing story of their son Stuart . Stuart be infect by contaminate blood , and be then infect with HIV and hepatitis C — he be just six year old . Stuart live and suffer , and pass away aged 27 in 2006 . the torment of the Blake family have be compound by the fact that they have not receive the full compensation that I know everybody in this House believe they be due . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement from the Dispatch Box , set out the intention to move forward with compensation for bereaved family such as the Blake family . I would be grateful if he could say a little more about that process . I be sure the whole House send its sympathy to the Blake family on the loss of their son Stuart in such appalling , tragic circumstance . as I indicate a moment or two ago , I do not think any of we can conceive of the grief of lose a child in those circumstance , but Stuart ' s parent be clearly people who be affect — they be exactly the kind of people whom the scheme have in mind . whether they be partner , parent , child , sibling or those who provide care , it be absolutely critical that the compensation body recognise their suffering . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . I would like to talk about Linda , one of my constituent , who sadly lose her husband Bill Dumbelton because of the infected blood scandal . he contract HIV and hepatitis C , and lose his job when he tell his employer that he have HIV . he have no life insurance — he be unable to get life insurance at that time because of his HIV status — so Linda have to pick up the piece and deal with all the financial problem when he die . can the Paymaster General please update the House on how the scheme will be use to compensate those affect by the scandal , include spouse such as Linda ? be the Government still aim to make those final compensation payment by the end of the year ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . we be look to make and start those compensation payment by the end of the year . again , I be sure the whole House offer its sympathy to Linda on the loss of her husband . my hon . friend highlight another problem when she speak about the fact that Linda ' s late partner could not secure life insurance at that time . another aspect of this scandal be that the people who be both infect and affect be , in decade past , unable to access the support that they should have be able to access . I congratulate you on your elevation , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank the Paymaster General for his statement . can he update the House as to what measure be be put in place to learn the lesson of this scandal , include on the indefensible time it have take to put it right and on improve mechanism for whistleblowe ? my hon . friend raise a really important question . first and foremost , we need to consider very carefully the 12 recommendation that Sir Brian Langstaff have make . the Government will respond to they as request in the timeline that Sir Brian mention in the report . in addition , we need to introduce the duty of candour and the public advocate , to support family at inquest and inquiry , and above all — in relation to my hon . friend ' s point about whistleblower — to lead a change that move away from the culture of defensiveness and towards one of put the public interest first . I welcome you to your new place , Madam Deputy Speaker — congratulation . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement today , and for the swift action of this Government in start to resolve this situation . as we have hear , there have be far too many scandal over recent year , such as Hillsborough , Horizon , this infected blood scandal and the woman against state pension inequality . do the Minister agree that people have to fight far too hard and for far too long to get the recognition and justice they deserve , and that this simply have to change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . Hillsborough , Horizon , a number of other past scandal and this one be all severe and awful injustice , but what make they even bad and compound they be then have to fight for decade and decade . that be simply unacceptable , and it be one of the thing that this Government be determined to change . like many other in the House , I have constituent who have be deeply impact by this scandal and will welcome the statement . do the Minister agree that it be vital that we take action not only to deliver the compensation , but to tackle the culture of defensiveness , which we have see in this scandal and in every other scandal that have emerge ? if we do not tackle it now , it be never go to change . my hon . friend be absolutely right . anyone who read Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report will see the emphasis he put on culture and the chilling nature of what he talk about as institutional defensiveness . that be something we need to change . we will put forward legislative measure that we hope will make a significant difference , but it be also a question of attitude and culture , and change that will require leadership . can the Paymaster General clarify whether an office for the whistleblower would be an independent office ? that would be helpful in progress the sort of clarity and transparency that he have refer to . protection for whistleblower be important ; it be something the Government be consider and keep under constant review . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation . I thank my right hon . friend for update the House so quickly after the general election . this issue be one that family in my constituency , and across the country , care about deeply . will he commit to ensure that hon . member be regularly update as we move toward draw a line under this dreadful scandal ? I do give that commitment , and I hope the House will see that the Government have move swiftly to update member . it be critical that the whole House get to have a full debate on Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report and its recommendation . I certainly commit to keep the House regularly update . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation to the Chair . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement and action so far . I be proud to stand on a Labour manifesto promise a duty of candour . after 14 year of broken promise , people in my constituency , as in so many other , have lose trust in politic and public institution , and cynicism be a toxic consequence of these break promise . I be so glad to see the duty of candour in the King ' s Speech , but can the Minister update we on progress on this long - overdue measure ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . he point to one of the deep issue across this debate , and indeed across other scandal such as Horizon and Hillsborough : there be a lack of trust in public institution . this have happen because it take far too long — decade — for the truth to come to light . the Government be commit to bring in the duty of candour . it be in the King ' s Speech alongside the measure to create a public advocate and to support family in inquest . I look forward to that be bring forward as soon as possible . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation to the Chair . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I pay tribute to the brave campaigner whose life have be change in the bad possible way by this scandal , include in my constituency . many of the campaigner be child of people who have die as a result of their infection , and they have suffer immeasurably . I be pleased to see that there be support for this community across the House . can the Minister confirm that the voice of the affected child will be include in his ongoing discussion and in the implementation of the recommendation in order to ensure fair and proper compensation and true accountability for this scandal ? we have to listen to the relative , include the child , of those who have die as a result of this scandal . it be an awful fact that thousand of people have die . now we must listen to their relative , who be their voice for today in this process . like many member , I have constituent who have be affect . indeed , I grow up without a grandmother , due to infected blood . not only do my constituent in Barnard Castle lose a child , but their other son experience severe mental health challenge , which be last throughout his adult life , as a consequence of the strain that have be place on the family because of their long struggle for justice . I be grateful for question about the duty of candour , but will the Minister agree to regularly update the House on the other measure that will bring about culture change ? culture change be difficult , and it be difficult to know if and when it have be achieve . I would be interested to see a regular update on that . I be sure the whole House extend its sympathy to my hon . friend on the loss of his grandmother as a consequence of this scandal . he be entirely right to highlight the impact that it have have on other : the people we call the affected people as a consequence of this scandal . with regard to the culture of institutional defensiveness , the critical thing be that people do not put protect individual reputation or the reputation of institution above what be in the public interest or above the duty of public service . I be not suggest for a moment that that be an easy thing to lead on , but it be certainly something that this Government be determined to lead on , and of course I undertake to update the House regularly on that . I call John Slinger to ask the last question . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation to your position . do my right hon . friend agree that the public note that all too often in such case of egregious state failure , prosecution do not follow ? it appear to the public that there be , in some way , impunity . compensation be belatedly give ; reform be make ; but all too often individual be not hold accountable . that be part of the problem that we be discuss this morning . will he commit to give further update on the step that may be take to ensure that individual be hold properly accountable ? whether individual be prosecute be rightly a matter that be independent of Government ; that be for the Crown Prosecution Service . what I do undertake to do be ensure that all relevant information be make available to the prosecute authority , so that the decision can be an informed decision base on the evidence . I also undertake , as my hon . friend ask , to keep the House update on that . make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of make Britain a clean energy superpower . it be a genuine pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and a privilege to open this debate on the Government ' s plan to make Britain a clean energy superpower . it be also a genuine privilege to have be ask to do the good job in Government — I think the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) would concur — and serve as Energy Minister . the urgency of the multiple challenge that we face as a country be the reason why this Government be move at such pace on this mission . first , we have the challenge of energy insecurity and our over - reliance on fossil fuel market , which be lay bare by Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . accord to the International Monetary Fund , the soar inflation that Britain suffer as a result of the energy crisis be far bad than in any other G7 country . that lead to the second challenge , which many of our constituent be still face : skyrocket consumer bill , with the default tariff price cap rise by approximately £ 2 , 800 in the year after the invasion . thirdly , while family continue to face the bad cost of live crisis in a generation , there be still huge demand for good job with good wage across every part of the UK , but perhaps particularly in the industrial heartland that have too often be leave behind in both the good and the bad time . fourthly , there be the challenge pose by the climate crisis , which grow more and more urgent every day . we be now halfway through the most decisive decade in prevent irreversible damage to our planet . this be our last chance to limit global warming to 1 . 5 ° and , frankly , we be way off track . this Government be determined to address these challenge , but , unlike our predecessor , we do not see they as separate issue pull we in different direction — a case of either green or growth . each of these challenge point to the same solution , a green energy future , because invest in clean energy at speed and scale be the only way to deliver energy security and to save family from future energy shock . it will also create ten of thousand of good , skilled job . the hon . Gentleman mention family and energy price . during the general election campaign , the Labour party and Labour candidate across the country claim that GB Energy will save the average british household £ 300 a year . however , the Secretary of State refuse to repeat this claim when give the chance last week . there have be quite a lot of confusion in the national medium over the past couple of day , with Downing Street say one thing and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero say another . can the Minister now confirm , on the parliamentary record , how much GB Energy will save or cost british bill payer by the time of the next election ? he be absolutely right that all these thing be part of Labour ' s energy plan for the country , so we need to know how much it will cost or save british taxpayer . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , but it take a bit of brass neck to come here and talk about bring down bill when the Government he support for so long see those bill skyrocket . we have be very clear that bill will come down . we say it throughout the campaign , we say it yesterday and we stand by it , because bill must come down , but this will not happen overnight . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] the Opposition Front Bench make noise now , but they have waste year . we now need to catch up on this mission . we will catch up , and we will bring down bill . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make a bit of progress , if that be okay . we will create thousand of skilled job , which , crucially , will also tackle the climate crisis that we have not do enough to tackle in recent year . it be for these reason that the Prime Minister have make make Britain a clean energy superpower one of his five mission . the Government have a clear long - term plan to deliver that mission by increase our energy independence , protect consumer , and deliver good job and climate leadership . the outcome of that plan will be the decarbonisation of our power supply by 2030 and an acceleration to net zero across our economy . to achieve that mission , we need to forge a new path that move away from these volatile fossil fuel market . that be why I be so delighted to introduce the great british Energy Bill to Parliament yesterday . the Bill correct an anomaly in our energy ownership , in which we have widespread public ownership of energy in this country , just not by we . we have offshore wind farm that be own by the government of Denmark , France , Norway and Sweden , but not our own . many of my constituent in Ealing Southall be incredibly excited by the Minister ' s plan for great British Energy , for take back control of our energy system and for lower the bill of hard - press family , but do he agree that the conservative party will have confuse many of my resident with its support for public ownership of energy infrastructure only by foreign government , and not by the British Government ? take into account his great plan to make this country an energy superpower , do he agree — order . I thank the hon . Lady for her helpful intervention , and I be very happy to agree with she . there be confusion at the heart of the conservative party ' s plan . they have be very happy to hand over key part of our national infrastructure to foreign government , for the profit go to the public in those country , but they have be ideologically oppose to any suggestion that the british taxpayer should have any stake in those future . that be something that we will turn around . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , and I apologise for not do so early . I be grateful to my hon . friend , and I welcome he to his position . I think it be clear to everyone that the early advance of the great british Energy Bill demonstrate the Government ' s priority , their commitment to drive down carbon emission and the cost of energy , and their recognition that that can happen only through public ownership and private investment . that be something that the last Government fail to understand . I know that we will debate the Bill ' s Second reading after the summer recess , but could my hon . friend say something about GB Energy have a control stake in new energy project , and support to ensure that the public benefit ? perhaps he might also say something about the vexed issue of energy storage , because that will constitute a huge part of the programme . my hon . friend have raise two important point . to answer the first , GB Energy will invest in a range of project and will have a key stake in they , deliver a return for the british taxpayer . there will be a range of project , in some of which we will certainly have the control stake , and some of which we might help to get over the line , but in every single project there will be a return for the british taxpayer . my hon . friend ' s second point be vital . I have be in this role for only a couple of week , but every meeting I have come back to this question of connection , storage , and how we make sure that renewable can be deliver throughout period in which there be electricity demand . storage will be important , and GB Energy will have a part to play in that , as well as in answer wide question about grid and network . let I return to the point about ownership by foreign country . british water be home to one of the large offshore float wind farm in the world , Kincardine , off the coast of Aberdeen . it be a good example of the problem with the current model . the foundation be make in Spain , the turbine be instal in the Netherlands , and only then be it tow into british water . our view be that british taxpayer should own some of that infrastructure , which be why yesterday the Prime Minister and the Energy Secretary announce an exciting new partnership between GB Energy and the Crown Estate to unleash billion of pound of investment in clean power . this partnership will enable two national institution to work together for the benefit of the british people . as well as build supply chain , GB Energy will develop and own power project in every part of the United Kingdom — in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . it will be capitalise with £ 8 . 3 billion over the lifetime of this Parliament , money that can be invest in wind , solar , nuclear , tidal and other technology , and it will deliver profit to the british people , play a vital role in deliver the new job that we need . the Government ' s plan to ban new oil and gas licence have be criticise by business leader , union and community group throughout Scotland . as a fellow Scottish Member , will the Minister say whether or not he support his Government ' s plan , which it have be say will put up to 90 , 000 job across Scotland at risk ? we make it very clear during the election that the future of the North sea be incredibly important , but that future be a transition away from the oil and gas industry that we see at present . the Conservatives also need to recognise that the North sea be a decline basin . we have lose thousand of job there over the past decade , and that will continue in the future unless we accelerate our transition in the North sea to the clean energy job of the future . it be not good enough to bury our head in the sand and pretend that this problem do not exist . we need a plan to give people secure , long - term , sustainable job for the future , rather than think that we can just carry on with business as usual . the Minister have refer continually to the role of GB Energy , but how will it deliver low gas price ? only yesterday one of his colleague , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , admit that the price of gas be determine on the international market . I be not sure that the hon . Gentleman understand the purpose of GB Energy , but it be not to bring down gas price ; it be to bring down bill . the whole point of GB Energy be to move we away from our over - reliance on gas . if we be not reliant on gas price , we will remove that risk to bill from the shock that we receive from the international market , but we can do that only if we invest in the clean energy of the future . do the Minister agree that the energy crisis be a matter not just of supply but of demand , and that the cheap bill be the one that do not have to be pay because the energy be not be use ? do he intend to announce today way of tackle the demand side ? we could , for example , ensure that all new building be build to net zero standard , and announce a timeline for get to that point as soon as possible . we could also announce a nationwide , street - by - street insulation programme to tackle the need for energy efficiency ; that be the cheap and quick way to address the energy crisis . if he be not go to make those announcement today , when will they be make ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . she have perhaps be read our manifesto , because I agree with everything she have just say . that be why we be announce a warm home agency and look at energy efficiency across the public and residential sector , and why we will massively upscale that domestic investment . I will come back to her point in more detail later . it be almost as if she know what I be go to talk about . an announcement be make recently about collaboration with the Crown Estate , and how it will work with GB Energy . in Pembrokeshire we have a fantastic opportunity in the form of float offshore wind . the Crown Estate be undertake the leasing process for the seabed . can the Minister assure we that there will be bind commitment to there be local content in the supply chain , and to address the skill gap in the region ? I thank my hon . friend , who have already become a very strong advocate for his constituent . he corner I in the Library to talk about these issue , and long may he continue to do so . he raise a really important point . the whole point of our partnership with the Crown Estate be that we will be able to look not just at investment in the clean power that we need , but at the supply chain create good job in industrial community . our commitment to the british job bonus mean that we will invest in those job in this country , create the skill for the future . finally on GB Energy , as a Scottish MP it would be wrong of I not to say that I be incredibly proud that great British Energy will be headquarter in Scotland . it be a signal of our commitment to deliver the good job that community need , and to bring the expertise and skill of Scotland ' s grow renewable sector to the table as we drive forward towards even more ambitious plan across the whole country . in the drive seat of these ambition be our new mission control centre , lead by the former chief executive of the Climate Change Committee , Chris Stark . mission control be about bring together the good mind across Whitehall , but also , crucially , outside of Whitehall , so that we can set the direction , monitor progress and remove all the barrier in the way , whether they relate to the planning grid , supply chain or skill , so that the Government can work with one voice to deliver this plan . on barrier , one of the key challenge be the capacity of our construction industry . be my hon . friend have conversation across Government about how we resolve that issue , so that we can deliver on this crucial agenda of move towards net zero ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . this transition have to be hand in hand with the industrial strategy that the Government be drive forward . that be why the Minister of State , Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) be also a Business and Trade Minister ; that will bring together work right across Government on the industrial strategy . we also have to look at the skill for the future , and develop the next generation of apprentice and skilled worker , who will be in job that will be with we long into the future . my hon . friend have mention Scotland , but I would like to mention Wales again , as do my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) . monmouthshire have plenty of wind and wave opportunity . we have the tidal River Severn , and we also have small tributary in the Wye valley , such as the Angidy above Tintern . my constituent be really look forward to benefit from the community energy project mention in the Bill . when can our community energy project start bid into the process ? I think for a moment that my hon . friend be go to make a bid for GB Energy to be headquarter in Wales , which be one thing that I can not commit to . she raise a really important point . one of the mission of GB Energy will be around the idea of community - own power . we have to bring two thing together : we want community to be in the drive seat of much of this in the future , but also to have some sense of ownership of the asset . we also know that some of the small generation project can be the most successful . if we can bring together the benefit of community ownership with small - scale generation project , that would deal with some of the issue regard the grid and network , because we would not be try to bring power to community from far away . there be real appetite for that , and it be some of the early work that GB Energy will do . the Government have move quickly on two aspect , one of which be onshore wind . we sweep away some of the significant barrier that have hold we back for far too long . within 72 hour of come into office , we remove the de facto ban on onshore wind in England that mean that just a single objection to a wind turbine prevent it from be build . onshore wind be quick and cheap to build , and it become one of the cheap source of power that we have . under the ban , in place for nearly a decade under the conservative party , only two onshore wind turbine be build in the whole of England , and the pipeline of project shrink by nearly 90 % . we be now consult on bring large onshore project back into the nationally significant infrastructure project regime , and we have establish an onshore wind taskforce to tackle the deplete pipeline of project , to help we on our way to double onshore wind by the end of the decade . we also have to speed up the roll - out of solar power . that mean not leave planning decision languish on desk for month after month , but get on with make decision . that be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State consent to 1 . 3 GW of solar , power the equivalent of 400 , 000 home . the Minister talk of solar farm . in Huntingdon , the propose East Park Energy solar farm stretch for six mile , from Great Staughton to across the constituency boundary , and be , at 1 , 800 acre , large than Gatwick airport . local resident have grave concern about the scale of that development . what commitment will he make to our rural community that they will have a say over the Labour Government allow large solar farm to be build in local area , give the detrimental impact on they ? the hon . Gentleman be right to represent his constituent , of course , and we will not in any way remove the ability of community to be part of the consultation process and the planning system , but the issue be that this have not be happen for so long . we need to move forward with some of this infrastructure . we want to look at the benefit that community will get from it — a range of option be be look at — but at some point we need national recognition that some infrastructure be necessary and nationally significant . some community will have to host that infrastructure , and there should be benefit for they to do so ; it do not mean that we should stop do these thing . the day of the Government pass the buck to a future generation to fix the issue be go . we need to tackle the crisis , and that mean that we will build project in community — with consultation , of course — because nationally significant project will have to go ahead if we want to reach our target by 2030 . in one week , more solar capacity be deliver by this Government than through all previous solar project consent to by the Department and its predecessor combine . we have reconvene the solar taskforce to explore what else Government and industry can do to help we to treble solar power by 2030 . underpin a renewable - base system will be a baseload of nuclear power . we want to see Hinkley Point C operational this decade , with extension to the currently operate fleet , and we be also support the development of new site such as Sizewell C . meanwhile , great British Nuclear be continue to drive forward the competition for small modular reactor , with bid currently be evaluate by the Department . there have be much debate about the role the North sea will play and what a just transition will look like . the reality , as I mention early , be that the North sea be a mature basin with decline reserve . figure from the Office for National Statistics suggest that the number of direct job support by the oil and gas industry have already fall by more than a third since 2014 . regard the potential closure of the Grangemouth refinery , the Just Transition Commission recently say that the UK Government have take positive step in work collaboratively with the Scottish Government . there be no doubt that we be behind schedule because of the previous Government ' s inaction . will my hon . friend provide an update on when the Grangemouth future industry board leadership forum will next meet ? again , I thank my hon . friend not just for his intervention , but for all the work he have do before and since his election . he have be a dedicated campaigner on this issue and have raise it a number of time with I and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . my hon . friend ' s point about collaboration be incredibly important . we have reset our relation with the devolved Administrations across the country . in particular , on Grangemouth , we have be work hard with the Scottish Government to find a solution . that have be a far more helpful set of intervention than we have from the previous Government . for example , on Project Willow , we have commit to joint funding with the Scottish Government to drive forward to find a solution . we be leave no stone unturned to secure an industrial future for the Grangemouth site , and I know that my hon . friend will continue to campaign on the issue . the future of the North sea more generally depend on have a plan for the industry of the future , whether that be carbon capture and storage , hydrogen or , indeed , renewable . the just transition be critical and it be something I take incredibly seriously , so we will work with North sea community to develop a credible long - term plan . that work will be support by a british job bonus to incentivise developer to build their supply chain here in the UK and to create good job in our industrial heartland and coastal community . we will make sure that our offshore worker be the people who decarbonise our country and deliver our energy independence , and that there be a strong , resilient workforce in the North sea for decade to come . my hon . friend , very importantly , mention the role that carbon capture , usage and storage have to play in the decarbonisation of our economy . I be sure he will have see the late National Audit Office report on CCUS and will therefore be aware that the Department have increase its reliance on CCUS substantially since this be first moot . the NAO be clear in its report that uncertainty remain about the funding available for future stage of the CCUS project proposal ; that the previous Government be behind in agree support for track 1 ; and that future progress on the programme be dependent on reach financial investment decision for at least some of the track 1 project very swiftly . will he give we an update — if not now , at some point later — on how this essential part of the programme will be handle ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . the Department be review the NAO report at the moment . this area will need investment , but we also need a concerted effort to understand what some of the barrier be . it be very clear that carbon capture and storage will be a critical part of the North sea infrastructure in the future , so we be take those issue very seriously . I very much welcome much of what the Minister have say in this announcement , include on the need for a just transition for those work in the oil and gas sector . however , before the election , the Government make a commitment to end new oil and gas licence , although they be still plan to allow the new Rosebank oil field to open , despite it be connect to a level of carbon emission that we simply can not allow in this country . I have two question about the future of oil and gas . first , will the Minister confirm how and when the ending of new oil and gas licence will happen ? secondly , will the Government reconsider the opening of the disastrous Rosebank oil and gas field ? I be hopeful that that be go to be a very positive question , but then we get to a " however " . I thank the hon . Lady for her support of what I have say so far . north sea licensing be an important issue . we be clear throughout the election that we do not intend to issue any further licence in the North sea . we be look at how exactly that will come into force , and a lot of detailed work be go on because we want to give assurance to the industry . on the question of Rosebank and some of those other field , we have say that we will not bring to an end any of the licence that be currently in place . I can not speak on some of the particular issue , because there be , of course , case before the court , but we will come back to the House in due course to set out the detail . what be important be that we have say that we do not want any new licence in the North sea and we stand by that commitment . we now want to work out a detailed plan , so that that just transition , to which the hon . Lady rightly refer , can come into effect . I wish to finish on the warm home plan , which the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) mention early and be so committed to support , and we be grateful to she for that . it will invest £ 13 . 2 billion in clean heat and energy efficiency over the lifetime of this Parliament , double the previously plan investment to upgrade 5 million home , with grant and low - interest loan to support investment in insulation , low - carbon heating and other home improvement . the late Government figure show that 3 million household in England be in fuel poverty . in the private rented sector , the figure be one in four . shamefully , the last Government abandon their commitment to get those home up to decent standard of energy efficiency , but we will not abandon tenant . we will ensure that home in the private rent sector meet minimum energy standard by 2030 , save renter hundred of pound a year . will the hon . member give way ? I will carry on , if that be okay . we will ensure that we have a regulator that fight for consumer as well . we have see repeat failure in recent year , include the scandal of the force installation of prepayment meter , poor customer service , and consumer pick up the cost when company go to the wall . the Government will overhaul the mandate , power , remit and redress of Ofgem , and we will reduce the burden of standing charge , which have rise by £ 150 since the start of 2022 . we will hold company to account for wrongdoing and ensure that there be automatic compensation for those fail by their energy supplier . finally , the next 18 month in the run - up to COP30 be critical to ramp up and deliver on our global climate commitment . Britain must and will regain its influence on the international stage , so we will work with international partner to raise ambition , include by lead a clean power alliance that bring together a coalition of country to accelerate the clean energy transition . the Government ' s clean energy mission and our wide energy agenda be critical , not just for that international leadership , but as a route to low bill , energy security and good , long - term job . there be no doubt that we be play catch - up . if we succeed — and success be vital for all of the reason that I have outline — the benefit will be substantial and feel by everyone long into the future . we have waste no time as a Government get start in pursue this mission and I look forward to the contribution of hon . member across the House , so that together we can deliver this critical agenda for the future of our country . I call the Opposition spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I say how wonderful it be to see you in the Chair ? I warmly welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) to his place on the Government Front Bench . I know that he use to be a schoolteacher , a wonderful profession , and I be sure that his ability to wrangle with unruly child will help he with his work in this place . I also welcome the continuation of the fine tradition start by my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) of have a Minister from Scotland in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . Scotland have play , and will continue to play , a vital role in our energy security , and I know that the hon . Member will bring his local expertise to the role . I be surprised to see the title of this debate . under the Conservative Government , we build more offshore wind than any other country bar China , much of it drive by our contract for difference scheme , which weave together the conservative principle of competition and enterprise . it be under the Conservative Government that we go from have 7 % of our electricity come from renewable energy to almost half today , and it be under the Conservative Government that we kick - start the large nuclear revival in 70 year , commit to three large - scale nuclear reactor and a whole new fleet of small and advanced modular reactor . that be the record that have lead to more than £ 300 billion be invest in green technology since 2010 , create job up and down the country . the Labour party like to say that the difference between we be that they be the climate believer and we be the climate denier , but that be obviously nonsense . it be under the Conservative Government that we become the first country in the G20 to have halve carbon emission , and we do that while grow the economy . the real difference between we be this : we know that the transition need to happen , but we recognise that it be now at a stage where we be ask the british public to incur great cost — to change their car , their home and many other thing . we be way ahead of other country , and what happen next be not cost free . if it be not manage carefully , if it be drive by ideology rather than the national interest , then it will cost we job , hit struggle family and leave we reliant on fuel import from foreign regime . this country will succeed in the decade ahead only if we have enough cheap energy to power our nation . it be no use be world - lead at cut emission if the cost of our energy go through the roof and all our business leave to set up in country that still burn coal for 60 % of their energy . that would be bad for global emission and a disaster for the british public . we will do our bit from the Opposition Benches to hold the Government to account on their plan , but my message to those mps now sit on the Government Benches be that it be in their interest to ask these crucial question too . throughout the general election campaign , the people now sit on the Benches behind the Minister tell their new constituent that their plan would save they £ 300 on their energy bill — they say it in husting , they say it in local medium , they say it on their leaflet — but they will have notice by now that their Ministers be no long say that at all . this be the problem , Madam Deputy Speaker : when you get into government and you speak in the House , you can not use number for which you have no basis . [ interruption . ] Labour member will learn that . but their voter — [ interruption . ] they laugh , but their voter will not forget that they make that promise . their online clip and social medium account will not go away . they all know that their leadership have sell they down the river on this one . the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State know that those saving can not be deliver ; in fact , their approach to energy will add huge cost to people ' s bill . that be not we be evil Tories . it be also the view of the european lead for Mitsubishi Power , who say that the Labour party ' s plan would require a " huge sacrifice " from Brits ; it be the view of the GMB trade union , which have say that the Secretary of State ' s plan will lead to power cut and blackout across the country and come at an enormous cost ; and it be the view of the Tony Blair Institute , which say that Labour ' s plan would raise bill and harm our energy security . People the Labour party normally listen to , from the right to the left of the party , agree with we on this issue . I urge the hon . member sit behind the Minister to take this issue seriously and examine his plan in detail , because it be their promise , which they all make just a few week ago , that be be ditch . come the next election , the first question their voter will ask be not , " have you meet the 2030 target ? " , but , " what do you do to my energy bill ? " if the trade union , the business leader and the conservative party be right that their approach would place huge cost on british household , I can tell they that their constituent will check the parliamentary record and see whether they ask any question , and they will have to explain why they let these measure pass without challenge . I have to congratulate the right hon . Lady on her chutzpah after 14 year of conservative government . I have examine closely those net zero policy — the stop - start on feed - in tariff , the fail competition for carbon capture and storage , and the stalling of new nuclear . she do not have a record that she should be proud to stand on , and I would have hope that she would graciously accept and back the innovative plan of the Labour Government . I have enormous respect for the hon . Lady , but I disagree , particularly on nuclear , because every single operational nuclear power plant in this country be start by Conservatives . I will offer some suggestion for question that Labour member might like to ask . they like to say that renewable be cheap , and they be cheap to operate . after all , wind and sunshine be free . however , if we want to know what a type of power will do to our bill , we have to look at the full system cost . if we race ahead with renewable at the same time as make our gas power station uninvestable , what will be our back - up when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , and how much do that cost the system ? new technology such as small modular nuclear reactor , carbon capture , and battery of long duration storage be all welcome , but they will not be ready by 2030 . what will be use , and how much will it cost ? will the large nuclear expansion in 70 year , which I set out , be sacrifice to pay for GB Energy ? I know that Ministers barely refer to it any more , but nuclear will be critical to our energy supply in the year ahead . have they make an assessment of how much their plan will increase our reliance on the current dominant provider of pylon , cable , battery and solar panel , which be China ? if not , when will they do so ? how much private investment into the energy transition will they lose through their plan to tax the North sea into oblivion and ban new oil and gas licence ? it be not a coincidence that many integrated energy company in this country pursue both oil and gas and renewable project at the same time ; it be because they use the same skill , supply chain and worker . industry say that more than £ 400 billion be at risk from these plan . GB Energy , at £ 8 billion , will not touch the side of replace that . how much will be lose , and where will the extra money come from ? will it be from central Government through people ' s taxis , or will it be through the bill and standing charge of all our constituent ? the Government keep claim — I think the Minister do so today — that GB Energy will turn a profit . I believe he say that " every single project " will make a return , but the slice of the pie that they want to invest in be the slice that even business do not think they can make money from . that be what de - risk mean . member should ask on what basis the Secretary of State think that he can turn a profit for the british taxpayer when highly experienced energy company believe that they can not . if I be to give one piece of advice to the Minister it would be to do what I do when I first start the job . he should not listen to just one side of the climate lobby who pretend that there be no cost involve in this transition , but go to speak to industry , and to oil and gas worker , and listen to how much those family value secure , well - pay job on their doorstep . he should not follow the Secretary of State ' s path of quote only from the Climate Change Committee , and never from business or industry . the Minister ' s job , first and foremost , be to keep bill down and the light on . he should not forget those last two priority , or he will find that those on the Benches behind he will turn very quickly . the right hon . Lady say that member should not quote only from source that they feel be friendly to they , so I will not quote from the International Energy Association , but perhaps she might accept a quote from the World Economic Forum , which state : " Renewables be now significantly undercut fossil fuel as the world ' s cheap source of energy " , accord to its report . I thank the hon . Gentleman , but as I say , we have to look at the full system cost . he be very experienced in the energy sector , and he know as well as I do that the flexible capacity that be use to back up an intermittent system be where the true cost lie . it be fair for Opposition Members to ask for an assessment of what those cost will be , and what they will mean for british bill payer . the other area where the Government must be honest with the public be about what they be go to build . the Secretary of State ' s first week in the job see he approve 4 , 000 football pitch ' worth of solar farm on farmland in Rutland , Suffolk , Cambridgeshire and Lincolnshire . those project be not sit on my desk , as the Secretary of State have claim . I have make a decision to reject Sunnica on the basis of a scathing examine authority report , and I change policy to protect our good agricultural land . these be not project that be likely to be approve ; these be bad decision . work be be draw up to be announce , but the decision have be take in the case of Sunnica . the Secretary of State will know that from civil servant , who be duty bind to brief he honestly in the Department . in the case of Mallard Pass , the site have be sign off , 40 % of which will be build on our good and most versatile agricultural land , take no notice of legal planning guidance that say that good agricultural land must be avoid . the Secretary of State and his Ministers will have to justify that , and many more decision , to his new colleague , many of whom now represent rural community and whose constituent will be rightly concerned that they be next . I wish the new Minister well for his time in the Department . the energy sector be one of the most interesting and important policy brief affect this country , and it be in all our interest that he do his job well . however , what the Government have do so far — make claim during the election that they can not stack up now they be in government — will just not do . they have set out a hard target to decarbonise the grid by 2030 , and the Secretary of State stake his entire political reputation on it , without be honest about the cost . these issue be far too important for Government not to take seriously , and they be far too important for Labour Members to follow the government blindly without ask question . they do that during the election with promise to save household £ 300 , and they can no long stack up those promise just three week into Government . I humbly suggest that this be their first lesson of the Parliament : they should not give the Secretary of State a blank cheque again . it be a great pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I wish you all the very good in your new role . it be great to be ask to speak first , so thank you — it be a total shock ! it be an honour to speak in this debate as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend , as we have a thriving offshore sector along the Tyne . to use the word of the Secretary of State , it be time for Britain to build thing again , and my constituency be open for business . the UK have a lot to be proud of in its service sector , but it be a catastrophic error to have let manufacturing in this country decline . to cite the title of a report by the Institute for Public Policy Research , manufacturing matter . the conversation around manufacturing and service in this country be often binary — it be one or the other — but the reality for other country be far from that . importantly , the IPPR report point out that while we have lose over one third of our manufacturing strength since the 1990 , " country like the US and France , which be similarly service - focusse , have maintain their manufacturing strength at 1990s level … productivity growth in manufacturing be five time high than in service between 1997 and 2021 " . high productivity mean high wage in good , well - pay job — job that I want to see in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend and which match the aspiration of my constituent . do my hon . friend agree that these 14 year of conservative government have be a miss opportunity ? we have be ship in component for wind turbine that could have be manufacture here , for example . we need the industrial revolution that a Labour Government will deliver . indeed , we certainly need to seize the moment now . our determination in this place to raise living standard for work people must be unwavering , and good job have their role to play in that . the past 14 year have see unprecedented level of wage stagnation . Resolution Foundation datum show that wage return to pre - financial crisis level only last year . that decade and a half of lose wage growth have cost the average worker more than £ 10 , 500 a year . I think that there be a one nation tradition among those on the Opposition Benches — an element of the conservative party that care about raise living standard for the bad off — but after 14 year the Tories have leave we with two nation : one rich , one poor . as we try to unpick the mess that the Labour Government have inherit , the growth of green industry will be an exciting part of the way forward . I be thrilled that company see the opportunity that Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend have to offer be bring job to the region in the process . the expansion of green hydrogen be just one example of that . during a recent visit , I be amazed at the ambition of GeoPura ' s hydrogen project at Siemens Energy in Byker , where it produce hydrogen power unit to replace traditional diesel generator . that be an example of the private sector at its good : the sharp mind come together to solve some of the big problem that we face . I be proud of the breadth of the energy and offshore sector in my constituency . that include the area ' s oil and gas industry , which have understandable concern about its future . we need to think exceptionally carefully about how we shape the sector in the come year for work people who earn their living from oil and gas . the hon . Lady and I have work together closely on some of these issue . do she accept , as I do , that the Climate Change Committee say that in 2050 , even when we have reach net zero , 25 % of our energy will be meet by oil and gas ? it be so important for our energy security that we produce that oil and gas here in the UK . that be exactly what the company be tell I and , as a member of the former all - party parliamentary group on oil and gas , I know it have often be say . the people work in these industry be worried about how their life will change if they be not able to adapt to new industry . these be important job in our community , where sweeping job loss be still in people ' s memory . in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend , it be not uncommon to speak to people who be affect or know someone who be affect by the de - industrialisation of the 1980 . the closure of the pit , shipyard and factory ruin people ' s faith in politic and the economy for a generation . the offshore energy sector include independent oil and gas producer , large integrate energy multinational , renewable energy company and a supply chain that we need to keep here in the UK . that include company in my constituency , such as Baker Hughes and Peterson , which operate right across the UK and , indeed , the globe . these company have the vision and ambition , which we all share , to deliver a home - grow energy transition and net zero . almost £ 200 billion will potentially be spend over the decade , but the company invest in nascent opportunity such as float offshore wind and carbon capture and storage will require the cash flow from a stable and predictable oil and gas business to fund these opportunity . I welcome labour ' s manifesto commitment to manage the North sea in a way that do not jeopardise job . however , I would be grateful if the Minister could set out , in practical term , how he will safeguard important job and investment in community like mine . Britain ' s potential to become a clean energy superpower be not only exciting but necessary . as the government accelerate this journey , I urge Ministers to ensure that no one be leave behind . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a genuine pleasure to see you in your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also welcome the new Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , to his place . I look forward to a much more constructive way of work compare with what happen under previous Energy Ministers . the race to net zero be the major economic opportunity of this century . the green economy must sit at the heart of economic growth , and the Government have work to do to rewrite the damaging narrative of the previous Conservative Government that this be about green versus growth , and to remedy their unforgivable failure that delay , block and even reverse urgent action on climate change . now be the time to move forward . the global market for net zero technology be estimate to be $ 650 billion a year by 2030 . we must use Britain ' s unique geography and abundant natural resource — wind power and the world ' s second large tide — to consolidate our position as a green economic powerhouse . community benefit , community buy - in and individual economic incentive be critical to make this a reality . bath and West Community Energy in my constituency be put people at the heart of the energy transition and place the ownership and control of energy in local hand . it raise £ 11 million from nearly 1 , 000 member and bondholder , and it have donate £ 300 , 000 back to the community for local food production , recycling project and fuel poverty programme , yet community energy be not mention in the labour manifesto . imagine a future in which people can purchase clean energy directly from a local supply company or co - operative , and in which every pound spend on power our home or car be recycle back into the local community , support job , fund new facility and service and contribute to renewable energy infrastructure . that be what community energy be about : ensure that people everywhere support and benefit from the clean energy transition . the big barrier , especially for small project , be the cost of access to the grid . there be regulatory challenge too , but surely the creation of great British Energy should include the opportunity to realise the enormous potential of community energy . it be often local council and grassroots project that show the great ambition to get to net zero . until now , local authority have be hamper by a lack of resource and a lack of co - ordination between central and local government . even within central Government the co - ordination of net zero strategy have often be fragment . we Liberal Democrats therefore call for a net zero delivery authority , both to devolve decision - make power and resource to local government , and to co - ordinate all net zero strategy and decision making across central Government Departments . the last energy crisis , which see household bill in the UK spiral out of control , be exacerbate by the UK ' s reliance on fossil fuel . ironically , the previous Government do very little to accelerate the deployment of renewable . onshore wind be de facto ban and the target for the roll - out of solar be regularly miss . only by fast expand renewable energy — not just offshore wind — and prioritise a radical home insulation programme can we ensure that family will never again be severely out of pocket . to fully realise the potential of renewable , the Government must address our outdated national grid . nearly 100 GW of electricity from offshore wind project be currently await grid connection . I hear that that be now to be accelerate . that would have be sufficient to power 150 million home . some developer have be wait for up to 13 year . there be no shortage of capital or will to invest , but delay and rise cost have deter investor , who see project in other market such as mainland Europe as a safe return on investment — I know that the Government be all over this , but I be set out what the failure of previous government be . significant new infrastructure be require to connect renewable energy from where it be generate to home and business across the country , but the Government must pay close attention to the community host the require infrastructure . I know that be a challenge , but I support the Government in understand that significant infrastructure can not be delay , because we really need to get to net zero . I totally agree about the need for new infrastructure . Germany be now pursue an " underground first " approach to new energy transmission infrastructure , rather than overground pylon . do the hon . Lady agree with I and other Opposition Members that the UK Government should adopt that approach ? indeed . we have have a Westminster Hall debate on that very subject , and I absolutely agree . save private company money be no reason not to do something that be well for community . half the time it be all about what be affordable , so I agree that there be a very fine balance to be strike , but where other solution exist than have big pylon that ruin the landscape , National Grid should look at they . the hon . Member claim that Labour ' s manifesto do not mention community energy . in fact , a statement from Community Energy England say : " labour ' s Local Power Plan would turbocharge community energy and local climate action " . it be an integral part of the Labour party manifesto . I be only mention how important community energy be to Liberal Democrats . the labour manifesto do not seem to have as much emphasis on it , but if we agree on it , hurrah ! we all win . the hon . Lady be be generous in give way . on the issue of undergrounde power line , although that may in some case be necessary for community , do she not accept , give that it be 10 time the cost , that it be possible to screen the power line and , in do so , create biodiversity corridor that can connect biodiversity from one part of the country to another , so that biodiversity can cope with climate change ? indeed , there be not easy answer to all these question . we need to look at the fine balance of cost versus get community buy - in . there be go to be a transformation of our landscape , and we need to be aware of that . we must also make a good case for why it be urgent that we get to net zero , and in my view that balance in the argument be not strike properly by the previous Government . it be important that community buy into our big landscape transformation , but it be also important that we do this at an affordable cost for the whole of the UK . we Liberal Democrats be call for all new home to be net zero immediately . it be crazy that we be build home today that will need upgrading in a few year ' time . we be propose a 10 - year emergency upgrade programme for home , start with free insulation and heat pump for those on low income . that will not happen without incentivise private landlord and have tough energy efficiency target . the private rental sector have the most energy - inefficient home . nearly half of household live in these property be in fuel poverty , but local authority have take limited action to enforce minimum energy efficiency standard . whether it be tight regulation on private landlord or further sanction to ensure that they comply , the Government must put their mind to the private rental sector . we will ensure that energy efficiency for rental be not brush under the carpet . that include incentive for the private rental sector . from discussion in the previous Parliament , I know that the Labour party be relatively reluctant to give money to private landlord , but without incentivise the private rental sector , I do not think that a home insulation programme will happen , particularly for low - income family . I urge the Government to think about that . as well as landlord , business must be incentivise to invest in the green transition . the u - turning of the Conservative Government spark immense distrust from industry , with the UK chair of Ford warn that her business need three thing from the Government : ambition , commitment and consistency . that be exactly what they must deliver . year of stop - start investment have leave the energy sector reel . business and trade organisation have long be call for a detailed plan of action that offer the clarity and certainty that will make the UK an attractive country to invest in . I hope that this government can finally deliver the certainty that the country so badly need . climate change be happen , but every cloud have a silver lining . seize the economic opportunity of net zero will help we spread wealth and opportunity to every corner of the UK . from insulate home to provide thousand of new job in the energy sector , it be clear that everyone can benefit from a thriving green economy . I look forward to work constructively with the new Government to combat climate change , reduce energy bill and be a leader in the journey to net zero . due to the large number of maiden speech , and the fact that I want to get everybody in , I be now impose a six - minute time limit — with the exception of maiden speech . I call Jess Asato . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation to the Chair . it be such a great honour to be in this place . my thank for that must , of course , go to the people of Lowestoft , Beccles and the village , who put I here . they have place their faith in I to do what be good for they , to be their voice here in Westminster and to champion they nationally . and they have place their faith in the Labour party to lead a Government worthy of this great country , to do away with the decline of the past 14 year and work to bring about a bright future for all . as I begin my role in make that happen , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Peter Aldous , and his contribution to East Anglia ' s position as a green energy leader , his defence of our local fishing industry and his campaigning for the WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . I thank he for his many year of public service and wish he all the good for his future . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , Bob Blizzard , who very sadly pass away in 2022 . he serve the people of my constituency for more than 20 year , in local government and in Parliament , and his decade - long fight for a third crossing will see its fruition with the opening of the Gull Wing bridge later this summer . finally , I must mention Dame Tessa Jowell , my mentor , who be much love and be much miss . I would not be in this place if she have not encourage I to follow my passion for change . in her maiden speech , she implore member to always " ask themselves whether what they be decide be what they would want for themselves or for their family . " — [ Official Report , 14 May 1992 ; Vol . 207 , c . 791 . ] I aim to channel her dedication to public service and , as she call it , the human - sized picture each day that I have the honour of represent the people of Lowestoft in this place . for I , politic be personal . I grow up near Lowestoft . I be a young carer for my grandmother and manage our precarious life on benefit . as a child , the daily struggle I face be my normal , but it should not have be , not for any child . that be why I join the Labour party 27 year ago . I know that when we be bold , we bring real and lasting change , such as the introduction of sure Start . I know that when we be focused , we can eliminate the barrier to success ; we can make people ' s aspiration more than a dream ; we can pull child out of poverty . I represent the most eastern constituency in the UK , and for many people there it can at time feel as though they be at the end of the line , not just on the railway map but when it come to political priority . if politics be not about make those at the periphery central , it be nothing . we have fail if our focus be only on those who be most visible to this place . my job , and the mission of this Government , be simple : to bring those who have not be serve well by politic back into the fold , prove to they that politic can work for they ; that it can be a force for good . it be a job that I be relish , and one that I be deeply humble to be able to do . Lowestoft be a special place to represent , with incredibly friendly people and our wide , sandy beach and beautiful broad , which be a real hide gem that I recommend colleague visit . we be home to some great sight : for the thrill - seeker , there be Pleasurewood Hills , arguably the UK ' s good theme park ; Africa Alive , for those want a taste of safari without leave the country ; fascinating maritime and transport museum ; the majestic Somerleyton Hall ; and , whatever the weather , Beccles lido . indeed , member look to book their next holiday should contact my office . however , that beautiful scenery and the really close sense of community we find in place such as mine have be let down . talk to constituent over the past 18 month , I hear the same issue again and again : people be disgust by sewage in our river and the sea . they be concerned about the lack of flood protection and about coastal erosion , not least because of the devastating impact of the 2013 flood in Lowestoft and the precarious nature of home on Pakefield cliff threaten by the sea . most worryingly , they be concerned about feed their child — a quarter of child in Lowestoft be grow up in deprivation , and 18 , 000 people have have to turn to Lowestoft food bank in the past year . one of the most pressing issue for many resident be access to NHS dentistry . we be a serious dental desert — a 2022 investigation find that not a single dental practice in Suffolk be take on new NHS patient . I meet one constituent while canvass who tell I that he have grow so feed up with the pain , with no obvious remedy in sight , that he have pull his tooth out with a pair of plier in his garden shed . I think we can all agree that that be not a state of affair we want to carry on with . labour ' s promise increase in emergency dental appointment will be a huge relief for local resident , and incentive for dentist will be crucial to attract they to work in dental desert such as mine . our plan to introduce supervised toothbrushing in school will also be essential for child ' s future oral health . make sure that all child be able to seize all of the opportunity in life , challenge childhood inequality and , importantly , address childhood trauma be central to my vision for politic . I be incredibly proud of my record outside of this place , campaign for woman and child alongside life - change charity such as SafeLives and Barnardo ' s , but I know that , be on the outside , I could only do so much . that be why I be here to stand up for vulnerable people , and to make sure that our coastal town and rural community feel the benefit of Labour in power . that be why policy like GB Energy be so important . they mark a break with the failure of the past . they demonstrate a true ambition and commitment to right many wrong . when the question be ask , " how do we make Britain a clean energy superpower ? " my answer be : Lowestoft . my answer be : by unlock our capacity to grow our offshore wind . the partnership announce yesterday between GB Energy and the Crown Estate represent a massive step forward for the country and a huge opportunity for my constituent . from a lack of housing to polluted river and sea , and from high energy bill to antisocial behaviour and much more , this Government have set their sight firmly on the issue that matter to people in Lowestoft , Beccles and the village . I be very glad to support they in that . it be a delight to welcome you to your new position , Madam Deputy Speaker , which I be sure you will fill with great aplomb , as you have do other position that I have see you in over the past few year in this House . I congratulate the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) on her maiden speech . it be very interesting to hear about her background in the charity sector . her tribute to former member who be inspiration to she and who have pass away be very moving . I know in what high regard Tessa Jowell be hold , particularly by those on the Labour Benches . it be also very nice to hear her tribute to Peter Aldous . he be a calm and quiet man in some way , but he be also a very kind man who really do stand up for his constituent on many of the important issue that she mention . he will be miss by those on the Conservative Benches . one of the first thing that I do when I be a new Member be try to speak to constituency neighbour from other party . those conversation can be incredibly helpful and revealing , and can ensure that you work together on local issue that should really transcend party line . I speak just yesterday with the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , who have take an area of my former constituency . I hope the hon . Lady do that , and take advantage of the all - party parliamentary group . one of my good baptism be with the hon . member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who be superb on the APPG for gambling - relate harm . we work together cross - party with mps from Northern Ireland , the Liberal Democrats and the SNP , so I urge the hon . member for Lowestoft to delve into the APPGs . she give a fantastic maiden speech . thank you very much for call I to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to touch on a couple of point that have be raise already , and then touch on a few local issue for my constituent , as well as make slight mention of a couple of national issue . the previous Government ' s record be clear . we start with 7 % of our electricity come from renewable source and end with 50 % . that be a good move for the long - term interest of the country . however , as the Committee on Climate Change say , and as I mention in an intervention , there will still be a need for oil and gas in the long term in our country . there be a manufacture base for deliver that , which often work symbiotically with our manufacture base for new offshore wind . I really hope that the Government think about and recognise that . when it come to our energy security , I do not want our country at the mercy of foreign power . I urge they to really think about the impact that not press ahead with new oil and gas in the North sea be have on constituency , particularly in the energy heart of our country , around Aberdeenshire in Scotland . we will require it , so I think that be a mistake . I sort of understand politically why they might have go for that , but I really urge they to think again in the national interest . since 2010 , there have be over £ 300 billion of investment in our energy sector from the private sector . whatever we do , it will be private sector - lead . the relatively small investment figure that the Government have be talk about have be reflect on . I just urge they to ensure that whatever happen be private sector - lead , and deliver the really good long - term job and growth for the country that we have be talk about and have secure over the last few year . I want to pick up on a few thing that the Government have say . my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) mention the £ 300 a year , but the Minister do not cover that . could he provide clarity on that issue ? it be something that constituent up and down the country will think about . the Minister talk about community - own energy company similar to great British Energy . there have be experience of that ; there be Robin Hood Energy in Nottingham , which end up cost taxpayer a huge amount of money in the long term . I be interested to know whether the Government be invest in the bit that the private sector will not invest in . how can they guarantee the return that the Minister be talk about , and how can they guarantee that the policy will not cost taxpayer more in the future ? as a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , I do not want to see , when I look into this in a few year ' time , that taxpayer be leave on the hook when the private sector would not step in . on the overall cost of the net zero plan , in the run - up to the general election , the Labour party drop its commitment to spend £ 28 billion a year on move towards the 2030 target . I really could do with clarity from the Government on the figure that they be look at , give that in the month precede the general election , shadow Ministers talk about it potentially cost hundred of billion of pound to get to that target . as I mention in an intervention on the Liberal Democrat Front Bencher , the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , on energy infrastructure , the impact would be on community such as Billericay , Burstead , and Laindon in my constituency , where there would be 160 - foot pylon right down the centre of an area of unspoilt countryside . I really would ask the Government to reflect on that , particularly as Germany be move to an underground - first approach . if the Germans can do it , I do not see why we can not . it be in the conservative manifesto . be the right hon . Gentleman aware that in July 2009 , Steve Holliday , the then chief executive of National Grid , say on the record that go underground be a " no - brainer " ? it be report widely in various newspaper , as be his say that when National Grid be require to go underground , such as when go through an area of outstanding natural beauty , it just do it . this require Government to be muscular with private organisation , and to insist that they use the technology that they can . order . I remind the hon . Lady that intervention should be brief . the hon . Lady make an incredibly important point . as technology develop , it seem remarkable that we be not look at go underground as a sensible solution . she be absolutely right that it can and do happen ; I think that it be a question of make it happen . the Government seem willing to ride roughshod over local consideration . I ask they to take a little step back and just try to take community with they . we get the first , second , third , fourth and fifth - large offshore wind farm in Europe deliver under the last Conservative Government . obviously , infrastructure be require for those , but the Government have to take community with they . I want to be able to back new renewable . that be a sensible thing to do , particularly in the offshore wind sector . that be why we see , under the last government , renewable energy go from 7 % to 50 % . however , we can not ride roughshod over local community . I urge the Minister , as he take this policy forward , to consider the impact across the country . I call Polly Billington to make her maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) — a constituency much close to mine than the one that he represent previously . first , of course , it be right to pay tribute to the fortitude and resilience display by my immediate predecessor , Craig Mackinlay , who represent the old seat of South Thanet . he demonstrate extraordinary strength of character when face with life - change injury as a result of sepsis . his return to this House , when Mr Speaker permit Members to applaud , be unforgettable . I know that he will use his elevation to the other place to promote his various passion , now include well prosthetic for amputee . I wish he and his family well . Craig be immediately precede by my good friend Laura Sandys . although Laura take her seat for the party now sit on the Opposition Benches , she and I have work together on a range of issue , not least the importance of tackle climate change and the opportunity that a transition to clean and renewable energy offer in help we to tackle social and economic injustice . if she be still in the House , she would have a lot to say in this debate . before she , the South Thanet seat be labour ' s for 13 year . it be hold by Dr Stephen Ladyman , a Minister of State in the last Labour Government who be able to effect real change for his constituency and beyond with his work as a Health Minister and also in the Department for Transport , where he secure the transformational high - speed rail service to Thanet . as a result , the three town that now make up my constituency — Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate — become highly accessible to the rest of the country , and that accessibility be both a new thing and a constant characteristic of the story of this beautiful place . much be say in Thanet about dfl — " down from Londons " , of whom I be unashamedly one — as though this be a new phenomenon , but it be a tradition that go way back . new arrival , mainly but not solely from the capital , have make their home in Thanet recently , as the pandemic have change work pattern and the train link have make commute more possible ; but people have be come down from London to enjoy the sea air , the sandy beach and the stunning sky of Thanet for more than two century . J . m . W Turner start a trend that run to this day . Margate can argue that it be , in fact , the first seaside resort . working - class Londoners take a sea packet down the river and stay over in Margate , often only for a night , to fit in with the strict holiday limit before the trade union secure a proper weekend for work people . in that tradition , I will be proud to vote for a well deal for worker when the time come . despite this strong working - class tradition , and the fact that Labour hold its party conference in the town after the second world war when Clement Attlee be our Prime Minister , the boundary change mean that I be the first ever Labour MP for Margate . from Chas and Dave to " carry on " , Margate have be home — or escape — for some of England ' s good entertainer . John Le Mesurier and Hattie Jacques live there , and Eric Morecambe hold his wedding reception in a pub in the old town . Margate be now the home of the world - famous Turner art gallery , which have drive the growth of a vibrant art scene , support by Tracey Emin and involve the Margate art school and Open School East . yet , as in so many place across the country , many people be lock out of access to the art , either as maker or consumer . that be something that we can and must address as a Government , and as a community in East Thanet . my good friend the artist Bob and Roberta Smith , a resident of Ramsgate , campaign tirelessly on that , and I welcome the Government ' s approach to the school curriculum , which will mean that all child can experience art in all its form . ramsgate be a town steep in history , with the only royal harbour in the country , gracious house build for naval officer in the napoleonic war , a rare georgian church with a chapel dedicate to the hero of the evacuation of Dunkirk , and ramsgate tunnel , which be a place of refuge for hundred of people during the second world war . thank to the Ramsgate Society and the town ' s resident , there be blue plaque where van Gogh paint , where Wilkie Collins write and where Coleridge recuperate . it be also where the architect of this place , Augustus Pugin , build his home . this history deserve to be more widely know and celebrate , include the story of ordinary people . access to understand the fullness of our past be crucial to shape our future . ramsgate be also home to a publicly own port , which host a range of company and service , from the Border Force and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution to the wind farm that generate enough electricity to power more than a quarter of a million home — wind farm own by another Government , however , not ours . I look forward to work with my right hon . friend on the Treasury Bench to ensure that great British Energy enable not only more energy to be generate , but job to be create and supply chain to be develop , in Thanet and in place like it where high - quality job be in short supply , and renewable energy source — commonly know as sunshine and strong wind — be plentiful . this amazing climate mean that Broadstairs be synonymous with holiday for many , but the reality be that its economy , like that of the rest of the constituency , be affect profoundly by the sewage scandal . as one business owner explain to I , " no one want to paddle through poo . " it be a priority for I and the Government to tackle the sewage scandal , which have not only environmental and health implication , but economic implication for East Thanet . what Thanet need more than anything be a year - round economy . that will require something that so many town need — include that of my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , as well as Beccles and the village — and that be a coastal community strategy that address the challenge face by constituency such as mine and make the most of what these amazing place have to offer . for all of the way in which Thanet be unique , my experience here and elsewhere in the country tell I that , as ever , we have more in common than that which divide we . thanet share challenge with many other coastal community : poor healthcare , creak bus service , a housing crisis partly drive by unregulated , short - term holiday let , shock crime statistic , blight high street and few good job opportunity . it share opportunity , too : renewable energy , heritage , stunning natural asset and the creativity and determination of the people who live in our coastal community . whether bear here or draw here , people value Thanet ' s unique character — it be one of our unify characteristic . like many before I , I have choose Thanet and I be honour that it have choose I . I feel able to ask the voter of East Thanet to have I as their MP because it be a place where I can walk safely and freely in town hand in hand with my wife . that be a precious and special thing . thank you , Thanet , for have I . I may not have the wit of Chas and Dave , the timing of Eric Morecambe or the vision of J . M . W . Turner , but I will serve you as well I can . I call Pippa Heylings to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I also congratulate the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , with whom I work before we both come to this Chamber , through UK100 and elsewhere , on local climate action , which I will speak much about today . I also congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . it mean a great deal to I to make my maiden speech during a debate in which the new Government be set out green energy policy and plan to get we back on track with our climate pledge here at home , so that we can once again contribute on the international stage towards collective global action . close to home , Government research show that local climate action would achieve net zero for half the cost of the national approach and deliver three time the financial return , but we need a clear framework between the national and the local and for how council fit into the national plan for net zero , include community energy initiative . let I say how proud and humble I be by the faith the resident of beautiful South Cambridgeshire have put in I . they want change , and this be a truly historic result . the Liberal Democrats win all three Cambridgeshire seat , turn they from blue to yellow for the first time , form a golden ring around the constituency of the Minister of State , Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) . I congratulate he on his appointment as the Minister for farming . we have a golden ring , or rather a golden doughnut with red jam in the middle , and it be thank to family , friend and activist , many of they here today , that that happen . I be a lass from Hull , whose dad be a gp and mum a nurse . from an early age , I accompany my dad on his home visit to patient , and it be those root in the NHS that foster in I a deep sense of community service , as well as an insight into the link between inequality , child poverty and poor health outcome . that be why I be proud that the Liberal Democrats put the NHS and social care at the forefront of our campaign , after year of conservative chaos and neglect leave the NHS on its knee . I will continue to campaign to get fair funding for our GPs in Cambridgeshire , because the unfair funding formula in Cambridgeshire be leave GPs struggle to keep their head above water . Inequality be a cruel determinant in the covid pandemic and lead to many avoidable death . South Cambridgeshire help avoid more . it be here that the quick deciphering of the covid virus ' s genetic code allow for the vaccine to be develop straightaway . that partly explain why they be available in record time . the researcher then continue to detect the variant as they emerge . it be truly lifesaving . that be part of the reason why semi - rural South Cambridgeshire be fast change . it be now home to world - lead innovation , with Europe ' s large biomedical centre and the Wellcome Genome Campus , as well as more than 8 , 000 start - up and business , most of which be small or medium - sized enterprise . our world - lead tech and life science sector be among the big contributor to the country ' s economy , and I invite the Government to recognise that . they be the goose that lay the golden egg , which be why their future need to be shape carefully with and through the local authority , give local people a voice and tackle affordable housing , the water supply , transport and grid infrastructure gap in a way that allow community , business and nature to thrive . that be why I would like to pay my respect to my predecessor , Anthony Browne , who work hard to raise those issue . he support the call on Government to tackle the water crisis , and I look forward to continue his work support the campaign for the new cancer and child ' s hospital , too . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , Heidi Allen , who be still remember fondly by many resident . sadly , Heidi stand down from politic as a result of the abuse that many mp — mainly woman — face . in her word , " of course public scrutiny be to be expect , but line be all too often regularly cross and the effect be utterly dehumanising . " Heidi have become an MP to stand up for the vulnerable and for those who have no voice . now , more than ever , I want to continue their work by help to ensure that there be a positive and inclusive vision for all in South Cambridgeshire where no one be leave behind . it be distress that 15 % of child in my constituency be live in poverty , with increase number dependent on food bank and free school meal , isolate in village with no public transport . this inclusive vision must include our unique and precious chalk stream that connect we — our blue vein ; the silvery thread weave together our village . we have the Granta that twinkle through Stapleford , Linton and Balsham ; the River Shep that start in Fowlmere nature reserve and flow through Shepreth and Barrington village ; the River Rhee that flow through Haslingfield and Harston ; the Mel that rise in Melbourn and flow through Meldreth ; and the Fulbourn and Wilbraham chalk stream . resident be rightly outraged at the dumping of raw sewage in these stream and river . I urge the Government to get tough with the water company . together with the Government , I will champion breathe new life into the Chalk Streams ( Protection ) Bill . I have work professionally for many year with government around the world to integrate climate and nature into growth plan , mediate agreement where benefit can flow to local community . what motivate I most be how young people see their future . a recent study on young people find that too many have climate anxiety . their most use word be fear , anger , frustration and worry . there be two main reason why they feel this way : first , they do not think that decision maker listen to they ; and , secondly , they think that decision maker do not care or take the right decision for their future . I have meet many young people in South Cambridgeshire who feel this way , and they want action on the twin climate and nature emergency . I speak to they now : I want what we do in this Chamber to restore your faith and give you agency , so that together we can be the change that we want . Madam Deputy Speaker , congratulation on your elevation . today , we stand on the brink of a new era for our country , with the recent announcement of an historic partnership between Great British Energy and the Crown Estate that will usher in billion of pound of investment for clean power . this landmark collaboration will be a defining moment in this new Government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower , highlight by the introduction of the great british Energy Bill to this House . I share the concern of many in this Chamber that , for too long , family and business have to endure sky - high energy bill . that be due to mismanagement and exposure to volatile international market . great British Energy will be own by british people and fortify with £ 8 . 3 billion of new investment . it be position to drive clean energy deployment across the United Kingdom , promote job creation , energy independence and economic revitalisation . the formation of great British Energy signify a definitive break with the past , steer we towards our ambitious goal of clean power by 2030 . the Crown Estate , with its extensive £ 16 billion portfolio and newly enhance investment capability , will synergise with great British Energy ' s strategic oversight . this will enable up to £ 60 billion in private investment and ensure that the benefit of our home - grow , secure energy will be feel across our nation , from urban area to rural community . it be essential that we collaborate with the private sector , which will allow we to amplify our renewable energy capacity — to double onshore wind , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind — by 2030 . this broad - base investment in renewable energy represent an investment in our future energy security and independence . this ambitious plan will not only produce cheap power for our constituent , but ensure that profit be reinveste back into our community . the creation of great British Energy mark a critical step towards generate clean energy , cut energy bill and deliver good job , particularly at a time when our constituent be grapple with the consequence of previous Government failure , which lead to an energy insecurity crisis . I have serve on the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee since its formation . I strongly believe that accelerate our investment in energy infrastructure be critical . initiative such as the green prosperity plan will create hundred of thousand of new job in clean industry by 2030 . this plan be vital to secure british leadership in the global clean energy transition . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister be proud that great British Energy will be headquarter in Scotland , ensure that every corner of our United Kingdom play a critical role in this green revolution . alongside the lifting of the onshore wind ban , approval of significant solar power project , and the establishment of a mission control head by Chris Stark , yesterday ' s announcement underscore our Government ' s commitment to secure Britain ' s energy future . furthermore , the Government ' s plan to impose a windfall tax on the record profit of oil and gas company will serve as a financial leveller . it will redistribute excess profit and ease the public burden . the transition to renewable energy must be meticulously plan and execute . in this context , the burning of woody biomass for electricity present substantial risk to our clean energy future . the Government need to reconsider subsidy for large biomass generator — such as Drax and Lynemouth power station — which under current subsidy arrangement could significantly undermine our carbon reduction goal . investigation have reveal that Drax , the UK ' s large emitter of carbon , have be involve in practice that be environmentally unsustainable and counterproductive to our objective . extend the subsidy could result in an increase in carbon emission and burden bill payer with high cost . the Government must heed the advice of independent body , such as the Climate Change Committee and the National Audit Office , by ensure that any future subsidy be conditional on sustainable practice . that will promote the use of local waste biomass over import material . furthermore , an equitable transmission away from North sea oil and gas remain crucial . despite 50 year of drilling , those resource be deplete and can not meet UK demand . increase domestic oil and gas production would not alleviate high energy bill or enhance energy security , as global market force determine those price . by end new oil and gas licence and speed up the adoption of renewable energy , we solidify our position as a world leader in climate action — order . I call Greg Smith . I add my congratulation to you on your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) , and equally , I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech in this debate . in particular , I join the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) in pay tribute to Craig Mackinlay , who be a superb Member of this House . as he make his transition from be the bionic MP to be the bionic peer , I think I speak for the whole House in wish he well . on today ' s subject matter , I want to be clear from the outset that we absolutely have to decarbonise and we absolutely have to defossilise . the challenge lay down to our great innovator and scientific mind be enormous , and those great mind be rise to the challenge , from electricity generation to the fuel of the future . but that be also why I be so frustrated by an approach to clean energy and clean fuel from Government that always seem to favour the first , but not necessarily the good or most sustainable , solution for the future . let I start with the controversial topic of solar . since I be first elect in 2019 , the threat of large - scale solar development have cause significant concern for many of my constituent . across my constituency and part of my former constituency now represent by other , field after field and farm after farm have already be blanket by solar panel , to the detriment of the surround community , food security , nature and landscape . food security be national security , yet before any of we who be elect on 4 July have even swear in , the new Energy Secretary have sign off 6 , 000 acre of solar installation , later admit in his statement a week after that a land use strategy be yet to come . we simply can not have this language of community consent when the decision that be take walk all over the view of the community so badly affect . small , stand - alone solar be less impactful , quick and easy to install , do not risk damage the local infrastructure , and provide an additional , reliable source of income for many struggle farmer . it be not just the panel that consume vast amount of our countryside . the infrastructure need to carry the electricity generate through to the grid swallow up yet more . it be no coincidence that adjacent to the propose Rosefield site in my constituency a battery storage facility be be put forward . in the ultimate manifestation of the tail wag the dog , National Grid have come along and propose another huge land take essentially to rebuild the east Claydon substation next door . let that be a warning to any community where solar be come : it do not end with the panel . Solar have its place , but that be on our rooftop and not our field . research by the wonderful charity , campaign to protect Rural England , find that there be potential for 117 GW of renewable energy to be generate from rooftop and other exist develop space in England . we should be prioritise that , and not lose our agricultural land . my solution have always be to propose nuclear as the option , and to look at small modular reactor . I have give this statistic in the House before , but I will do so again : we need around 2 , 000 acre of solar panel to generate enough electricity — on current usage and before everybody have two tesla on the drive — for 50 , 000 home . by contrast , just two football pitch be require for a small modular reactor that will power , again on current usage , 1 million home . I fail to see how anyone can look at those two compete land use and choose solar over the small modular reactor . it be simply not a good use of land to turn our farm into solar . let I move to another clean energy that I be particularly passionate about , and away from electricity generation to the future of fuel . the United Kingdom be already an international powerhouse in the field of synthetic and sustainable fuel , with company such as Zero Petroleum innovating right here , and international company such as P1 Fuels make huge investment in bring the manufacturing of fossil - free fuel to the United Kingdom . it be a straightforward fact that there be 1 . 4 billion internal combustion engine vehicle on the road worldwide , and that be before we start count agricultural and construction vehicle , plane , ship and so on . they be simply not all go to convert to electric , as some argue that they should . green hydrogen mix with atmospheric carbon capture make a wholly man - make liquid hydrocarbon that work in everything we already have . after more than a century ' s refinement on those engine , and this clean fuel will just work in they . on the point about synthetic fuel , be it also the case that for several type of vehicle , such as incredibly heavy vehicle or those that need to travel incredibly long distance , there be no battery option , and synthetic fuel as an alternative be exactly where we need to go ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . certainly for heavy application vehicle , battery just would not work . I see a diagram at one of these company that show that if we be to try to make a 747 fly on battery , the battery would be big than the plane . therefore , that be not a viable option go forward . synthetic fuel be entirely man - make . there be no need to grow food to burn or recycle old chip fat , or for raw earth mineral mining for battery ; it be just clean synthetic . my ask to the Government , as they look to a clean energy future — that be the right ambition ; where we disagree be on how we get there — be that they truly embrace synthetic fuel and make they mainstream . they need to be scale , and in order to be scale , manufacturer need confidence that the Government will permit that . an important point to finish on be that the carbon at tailpipe when these fuel be burn be the same volume that be then recapture to make the next lot of fuel . they be net zero . it be one volume of carbon in a perpetual circle . I congratulate the Minister on his appointment , and ask he to take the message back to the Department that we need to embrace synthetic fuel as part of the clean energy revolution that he claim at the Dispatch Box to want to see . I call Torcuil Crichton to make his maiden speech . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your appointment , and it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) and to hear so many other maiden speech today . they make faraway place such as East Thanet and Lowestoft , with which in fact my constituency have old herring connection , seem close to we . it have also be a pleasure to hear so many maiden speech this week from my 35 fellow new Scottish Labour mps . I realise that that number somewhat bracket the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who blaze a trail for we . I be delighted to see he on the Front Bench , just as I be delighted to see my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) bar the door so that everyone have to hear what I be about to inflict upon they . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , and my translation , I begin : Mar urram dhaibhsan a th à nig romham agus iadsan chleachdas I as mo dh è idh , tha mi togail mu ghuth nam ch à nain fh è in airson Na h - Eileanan an Iar . in honour of those who become before I , and those who will surely use my native language after I , I raise my voice today for the people of the Western Isles . the commonest question I be ask in this House , apart from how to pronounce the name of my constituency , be how I manage to travel from Westminster to the Western Isles . of course , the easy answer be by Tardis , but the honest answer be that here we be a mere hop and a skip away from Glasgow , and then I travel by a small jet — on schedule , hopefully — to Stornoway . as I board that small , tubular jet , I feel almost like a character in " succession " , but I know that there be gold at the end of the flight . of course , we be connect ; we be not in the middle of nowhere but at the heart of the Atlantic . we have the wealth of wind that will deliver the benefit of job , growth and energy security for this country in year to come . those atlantic island and the western seaboard be what will give GB Energy meaning and reality in that transition from east to west , away from the North sea and away from the myth that we will not be there in another two generation . two generation of my constituent have earn energy security for this country from the North sea , and two generation more will continue as we make that just transition to renewable . that will be do with the heft of two government — the UK Government and the Scottish Government — and will require the muscle , investment and expertise of commercial developer . vitally , it must involve the consent , involvement and power of community . just as the Labour Government of ' 97 establish , from the pre - devolution Scotland Office , a community land unit enable community to have the mean and wherewithal to take over their own land , set in chain the land reform revolution in the highland and island , I be encourage that this Labour Government be open to idea such as a community energy unit , to enable community such as mine to take their stake in that wealth of wind , and create a template that can be use across the whole of Britain . these be theme to which I will return , alongside the unfinished business of land reform — I read today that a highland estate be for sale at £ 12 million , with carbon capture and the Ponzi scheme of peat restoration attach , and I know that that be unfinished business . of course , wild weather and radical land politic be not the only thing that the Western Isles have to offer the United Kingdom . there be deep connection to the country and to this place itself . the tide of the Thames that rise and fall outside , mark by Mary Branson ' s " New Dawn " high up there in St Stephen ' s Hall , be the same tide that cover and uncover " she ò l an Iolaire " , a tidal installation that I instal in Stornoway harbour , along with my good friend Malcolm Maclean , to mark a wartime tragedy and the loss of a ship of that name . that same tide that sweep into the viking bay of Stornoway also lap Tarbert in Harris , Lochmaddy , North Uist , Lochsboisdale and Castlebay in Barra . that hebridean archipelago of nine — or be it 10 — island guard our western approach . be they to be transpose on to a map of mainland Britain , they would run from London to Sheffield in length — with well scenery , of course . that be why I be reluctant to enter the traditional rivalry between maiden speaker of declare their constituency the most beautiful in the country : when they come , they will see that there be no competition . I do not intend to give a Cook ' s tour of my constituency , but Barra , the jewel of the Hebrides , be where Angus MacNeil , the former MP for Na h - Eileanan an Iar , reside : fior Ghaidheal — a true Gael — and a generously spirited man , whose chairmanship of many Committees in this House be testimony not just to his political acuman , but to his ability to befriend people across the Chamber . that be one characteristic of my predecessor that I hope to emulate . I will not take the House around the whole of the Western Isles , because time be short , but there be some other political monument that deserve mention . I have no few than four former Labour mps in my constituency on whom to lean for advice : Dame Anne McGuire , the queen of Stirling ; Ian Davidson , the former Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , who be still campaign for Labour ; Calum MacDonald , the former Labour MP for the Western Isles and our community wind farm expert ; and , foremost among they , Brian Wilson , a former Energy Minister , whose counsel I commend to those on the Front Bench , and who have be a guide light for I since he hire I at the West Highland Free Press as a journalist many year ago . in pass , I can not but pay tribute to those above we . I do not mean the angel ; I mean the devil in the Press Gallery , among whom I dance for many year as a journalist for the Daily Record and the Glasgow Herald and as a freelance broadcaster for the BBC . of course , it be Friday and nearly lunchtime , so they be not there . when I be in the Lobby , it be always nearly Friday , and always nearly lunchtime . in a double transfer deal , which perform that rare feat of unite the Westminster Lobby and Downing Street , I be join on these green Benches by my hon . friend the new Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , who be my Lobby roommate upstairs and will now join I here . on the old map , my constituency might have be mark " here be dragon . " my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale slay one to get here . I will not detain the House with description of whisky , salmon , scallop that reach Singapore in 24 hour , Harris tweed or beautiful bay , but I remind the Minister that the people of the Western Isles have the tenacity , the wherewithal and the resourcefulness , embody in the arnish yard near Stornoway , to act as a stepping stone in the journey to renewable and to clean energy . it have be a long road from there to here . many people have help , and since I have arrive I have have many message of support , and prayer and passage too . as I come from one of the most religiously observant part of Britain , that come as no surprise . one passage , from an old friend , have stay with I . to save the Hansard reporter , who be probably struggle with the accent , never mind the translation , I will do the task for they . she say : " may your conversation always be gracious , seasoned with salt , so that you may know how you ought to deal with anyone " — biodh ur comhraidh an - comhnaidh grasmhor , air a dheaneamh blasta le salainn . season with salt , Madam Deputy Speaker . I like that . I hope that all our exchange in this House will be gracious and seasoned with the salt air of the Atlantic and our common future , because in this Chamber and in this kingdom , we be all islander . I call Adrian Ramsay to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I be honour to follow the maiden speech of other member , include my constituency neighbour the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , with whom I look forward to working , and the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) , whose speech I enjoy very much , particularly his closing remark about deliver our speech with some salt and show a gracious approach to engage with one another in this House . many hon . member , particularly new member , have talk about the opportunity to set a new tone in our politic in this Parliament , one of work constructively and show a respectful approach to how we work together . I thank the hon . member for set that out . I be grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech as a new MP , one of a group of newly elect Green mps , and as the MP for a brand - new constituency , the beautiful Waveney Valley on the Norfolk - Suffolk border . as it be a new and additional seat , I do not have a direct predecessor to pay tribute to , but I will briefly thank all five of the previous mps whose seat I have take part of , for their work in represent the resident whom I now have the honour to represent . I thank Richard Bacon , Dan Poulter , Jo Churchill , Peter Aldous and Th é r è se Coffey for their work as mps . I be proud to be in this place today to represent Waveney Valley , which have be create as an additional seat in the east of England . as a native East Anglian , it be an honour to be able to represent such a wonderful constituency span such beautiful part of Norfolk and Suffolk . I hope that other hon . member , who be no doubt equally proud of their constituency , will indulge I for a few moment as I try to give they a sense to what it mean to I . from its vibrant market town with lot of independent business on the high street to the beautiful natural environment of East Anglia , with the Waveney and several other river run through it , Waveney Valley be a fine example of picturesque and historic East Anglia . the ancient market town of Diss be mention in the Domesday Book ; Bungay have a Norman castle ; the town of Eye and Halesworth date back to roman time ; and Harleston date back to the medieval period . create a constituency that span the county border of Norfolk and Suffolk be consider controversial by some , but personally I think it be an exciting opportunity to embrace cross - county working , and much of the constituency reflect a natural community around the Waveney . that say , there be one contentious question that some people put to I : which football team do I support ? I be proud to be a lifelong Norwich City fan , but in football as in politic , I be not tribal , and I warmly congratulate Ipswich Town on their recent promotion to the premier league for the first time since 2002 . it be a great thing for East Anglia , and I very much look forward to celebrate have two premier league man ' s football team in East Anglia this time next year . what really make Waveney Valley special be its people — people who care about their community ; who , like I , have a strong sense of local identity ; and who demonstrate great ingenuity and care for their community . I could cite many example of that ingenuity , whether from farming , the third sector or local business , but to give just one example , the indoor marketplace in Diss open last year in a former department store . it be a community initiative , give local trader affordable small space to sell their craft and good in a share space — a lovely boost for the local economy in a building that would otherwise have sit empty . what a great example of regenerate the high street . People in Waveney Valley be rightly proud of our market town and village , but they also feel let down by the loss of local service and the degradation of our environment in recent year and decade , which have particularly affect our rural community . as have be note this week , we have " the Sahara of dental desert . " — [ Official Report , 23 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 506 . ] one of my constituent tell I that they make a four - hour round trip to access a dentist . over a quarter of the resident I survey over the winter say that they be go without dental treatment , and like the hon . member for Lowestoft — from whom we hear early — I have have example in Suffolk of people tell I they have resort to pull out their own tooth . this can not go on , and I welcome the new Government ' s commitment to reform the dental contract , which be the root cause of this issue and of the exodus of dentist from the NHS . I hope to hear a timetable for that plan as soon as possible . we have also see a decline in other health service in my rural constituency . People find it hard to get access to a GP appointment in many area ; we have have local hospital close in market town ; and we also have rural isolation , with so many bus service axe or cut back , particularly in village . at the same time , we have the scandal of sewage in our river , which the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) speak about so eloquently , and which I know so many member across the House feel extremely strongly about . People be horrify by this threat to people ' s health and to wildlife , and they rightly see it as a sign of wide environmental neglect . I very much hope that the restoration of nature and tackle the sewage scandal be make top priority by this Government . whether it be on the grow use of food bank , people suffer from flooding or the decline in our service , I want to see real action that genuinely account for the need of our rural community . because of their anger about the loss of local service and the decline in our environment , people in my area be determined to vote for a change at this election . they be use to have Green councillor stand up to represent they , and they vote for an MP to stand up for their area . I will press for the restoration of local service and the defending of the local environment . it be my intention to serve the people of Waveney Valley by seek to bring people and place together . I will work across political and constituency line to get thing do , scrutinise and constructively challenge the Government , and work to improve the life of my constituent . as many other hon . member have say , we have an opportunity with this new Parliament to put our politic on a more mature and civilised footing and move beyond tribal approach , and I be confident that that be what the public expect of we . I have have thousand of conversation with local resident over the past few year , and I know that they want an active and visible local MP . I be determined to fulfil that role — to be Waveney Valley ' s voice in Westminster and not Westminster ' s voice in Waveney Valley . I would like to set out how I be approach an issue in East Anglia that have attract a lot of interest from some right hon . member and the medium . I have be a climate campaigner for 25 year — that have be my primary passion since I be a teenager — and make a difference on climate and the environment have guide everything that I have do in my career , include spend the last decade lead national charity whose purpose be to support the renewable energy sector . I be the first to argue that we need to scale up all type of renewable energy , and there be much in the Minister ' s speech to welcome . if we be to scale up renewable energy at the pace require to tackle the climate emergency , we need to take community with we and make infrastructure decision that be right for the long term . what I have call for in relation to the infrastructure proposal that be currently on the table for East Anglia be a proper option assessment of the different way in which the energy generate by new wind farm in East Anglia be connect to the grid . today I have hear two hon . member from two different political party from mine refer to the fact that there be different way in which we can connect that renewable energy to the grid . I think that simply call for an option assessment be a very reasonable approach . I be also call on the Government and the planning process to account for the point raise by wildlife trust , local council and community about the impact of the current infrastructure proposal . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have set out that there be a planning process to be follow , which the Government should not prejudge , and the Prime Minister have say that he want to reset the tone on the political debate — something I very much welcome . in that spirit , I ask that we move beyond some of the comment that have be make in this Chamber on the particular infrastructure proposal that I have refer to ; that the Government commit to work with community to ensure that infrastructure decision be make in a way that properly account for the issue raise by wildlife organisation and local community , and genuinely look at the option that different member be highlight ; and that if a version of the current proposal do go ahead , the mitigation propose by organisation such as Mid Suffolk and Babergh district council , and the wildlife trust , be properly take on board and full compensation be put in place that account for the impact on farmer ’ livelihood and on other affect . on the wide subject of today ' s debate , I welcome the creation of great British Energy and much of what the Minister share in term of scale up renewable energy . I politely point out , though , that to get to net zero we have to move away from fossil fuel as well as increase renewable energy . to that end , I would ask the Government to place a strong emphasis on energy efficiency measure . the Minister refer to home insulation , but what I have hear so far will only scratch the surface of the home insulation measure need to keep bill down and home warm . I also urge the Government to reconsider the Rosebank oilfield , which will have carbon emission equivalent to 28 low - income country , and to ensure that carbon capture and storage project be never allow to be an excuse for million of tonne of carbon pollution . I have two other point on climate . first , with significant climate change already happen around we , or already lock in as a result of emission to date , far more public policy attention need to be give to how we adapt to a change climate , as well as to mitigate the bad excess of climate breakdown . we need to look at those thing together , and I look forward to return to this issue on another date . secondly , the decline of climate and nature must be see as equal and twin problem . I stand ready to work with those from across the House to shift the UK from be one of the world ' s most nature - deplete country to get on track to meet environmental target , include on nature recovery . it be an honour to be here to represent the people of Waveney Valley . I have set out my guide principle as a Member of this House , which be to stand up for our rural community , for the restoration of public service and for the most vulnerable in our society , and to press for the urgent action need on the twin climate and nature emergency . I will play a constructive role in this House by support the government and work with other party where I agree with they , and in press the Government to be bold on restore nature , respond to the climate emergency and rebuild our public service . and I will always speak up for the people of Waveney Valley . I call Dr Zubir Ahmed to make his maiden speech . I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate hon . member on discharge their responsibility and deliver their maiden speech , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I be sure he will correct my pronunciation and give I some honest feedback . I also welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , to the Front Bench . it be timely that I be make my maiden speech on a day when we be discuss how Scotland might shape the energy need of these island for many decade to come . I thank and pay tribute to my predecessor , Chris Stephens , for his dedicated service to our community over the last nine year . his commitment to social justice and worker ’ right be inspirational and will leave a lasting impact . I be particularly thankful for his advice and counsel during the handover process that be currently take place . Glasgow South West be a synthesis of many different community , each with recur contribution to the 850 - year - old second city of empire . if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will give the House a short synopsis of the place where I live , work and play . we start in Darnley , Deaconsbank and Pollok , much of it occupy the old Pollok estate , the laird of which — Sir John Stirling - Maxwell — be a Member of this place and found the National Trust for Scotland in 1931 . in more recent time , these area have demonstrate the transformative possibility of their co - operative spirit through the Rosehill housing co - operative and the Pollok credit union . move north , the ruin of Crookston castle come into view . build by the Stewarts of Darnley in the 1400 , it be the only medieval castle stand in Glasgow , and it be possibly where Mary , Queen of Scots , be betroth to Lord Darnley . it remain an underutilise community asset , but I commend the friend of Crookston castle for their effort to bring this space back into the service of the people of Glasgow . a short distance from the castle , the wonderful community of Mosspark , Dumbreck and Cardonald be nestle around the great expanse of Bellahouston Park , which have play host to numerous music concert , papal visit and the empire exhibition of 1938 . as we head far north , we come to Ibrox , which be synonymous with Rangers football club . now , I must stress , Madam Deputy Speaker , that other Glasgow football club be available ; my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) and for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) can take you for a tour around they . Govan be the birthplace of Sir Alex Ferguson , a footballe legend , but also a friend to member on the labour Benches ; he have often give wise counsel to my party . it be also the location of the Queen Elizabeth university hospital , formerly know as the Southern General , one of Britain ' s large hospital and the place where I hone my skill in surgery and practice as a transplant surgeon . my research lead I to conclude that I be the first transplant surgeon to be elect to this place . Govan ' s shipyard history be , of course , world famous , and the Fairfield Heritage Trust and Govan Workspace have bring that to life . more importantly , it continue to serve the defence of our realm even in the modern day , and to be part of Glasgow South West ' s story ; we have BAE Systems and Thales , alongside fintech and medtech company such as Barclays and Cohesion Medical , as well as award - win tv and film company such as Firecrest Films . we can see the kind of high - quality job of the future that can be available to local people . these be the kind of job I want to grow as part of this Labour Government . as we head towards the edge of the constituency , we find the BBC Scotland headquarters . the BBC have an important function in the fabric of our national life , not only in informing , educate and entertaining , but as a beacon of our soft power on the world stage — something I wholeheartedly support . just as national broadcasting be important , so be the local , and nothing encapsulate that well in Glasgow South West than sunny Govan radio station . it provide an eclectic mix of music , but also , more importantly , run sober story and be a source of comfort on some of the challenge in our community . we end our Glasgow South West journey in Pollokshields , an area my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) know well . it be a true melting pot of culture and idea , and the place where my father ' s one - month road journey from Pakistan end in April 1963 . he would go on to drive bus in the city , and then black cab — he be in his 80 and he still do . in the undergrowth of this rich history and potential , however , there be some worrying signal . there be the weariness of work ever fast and long just to stay still , the anxiety of wonder how secure that work be , and the trepidation at the end of a day of work that you may not be able to pay for the odd treat that make life worthwhile , or even the essential . it be against that backdrop that we on the Labour Benches be send to this place to make the economy work for work people , and to restore the intergenerational covenant — the promise that the life of the generation after we will be well in every sense than our own . politic for I be not , therefore , about the indulgent combative tweet , or even the theatrical amendment . it be the about see the world through the long lens . it be about have the stamina for diligent analysis , the patience to articulate policy and then , when in power , the discipline to deliver endure change . that have always be the labour way . every Member elect to this place recognise it for the singular honour that it truly be , but it also take a village to be elect to this place . that include , of course , the tireless staff and activist who be in many way the dna of our democracy , but there be also , for all of we , those who shape our life and now shape our politic . when I reflect back , I think of my parent and my extended family , who , from a cradle in a Govanhill tenement , instill in I the raw ingredient to do my utmost in every walk of life . I think , too , of my teacher and my mentor , who mould those ingredient into the art and craft of a widely practise surgical career , and of my wife and child , who keep I connect to the earth and in contact with reality , particularly when it be much need . out of all those people , I think of my maternal aunt , Matloob Mohammad , who stand out . she have no child of her own and consider we her child . like too many in our Labour family , she be take by glioblastoma — as be my father - in - law , Tony — in 1997 . her patient journey through our NHS inspire I to become a doctor and then a surgeon . she also , in many way , inspire my political journey . she quite inadvertently introduce I to this place 29 year ago . after queue outside , we find ourselves in the Strangers ' Gallery watch a combative Leader of the Opposition by the name of Tony Blair take on the then Prime Minister . if she be here today in that Gallery , she could not fail to notice the change in the make - up of this Parliament reflect back up at she . we have our challenge in modern Britain , but it be important to be unashamedly proud of the fact that we be demonstrably the most successfully ethno - religiously diverse legislature in the world . in these volatile time , I believe the world look to we in this place , the mother of Parliaments , for guidance , and for the solace that democracy can still deliver . I be confident that it will . I call Sarah Bool to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . I congratulate you on your election to the Chair , and commend the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) for his passionate and touching maiden speech . South Northamptonshire — one of the few constituency to have two geographical term in its name — comprise the majority of the seat hold by Dame Andrea Leadsom ; part of the former Daventry constituency , which be hold by Chris Heaton - Harris ; and part of Wellingborough constituency , recently hold by the hon . member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) . as be tradition , I must start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . Dame Andrea Leadsom be a powerhouse , a tour de force , not only in industry , but in Parliament , where she serve the people of South Northamptonshire for 14 year . she serve as City Minister , Leader of the House , Secretary of State for the Departments for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , and , latterly , Minister for public health , start for life and primary care . as Leader of the House , Dame Andrea spearhead the creation of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , which have help many member and staff across the House . she be wonderfully compassionate and have be an incredible mentor to I since my selection to stand . she be a strong advocate on issue to do with early year . in her start - for - life role , she open family hub in 75 local authority area . her determination to open the first family hub in South Northamptonshire will support so many local family in give their child the good start in life . I know that she be determined to continue that work in the year to come , and she have my full support in her endeavour . although my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) may have an opportunity to speak to the legacy of Chris Heaton - Harris , I can not let this opportunity pass without pay tribute to Chris , as he be such a dedicated statesman . he spend 10 year in the European Parliament and 14 year as the Member for Daventry , include as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , a crucial role — all the while still find the time to be an active qualified football referee , officiate at game at different level for more than 42 year . Chris support I during my campaign . I see the warmth with which he be greet on the doorstep , and how highly regarded he be by his constituent — a role model to follow . in their maiden speech , both former Members pay tribute to their predecessor , the now Lord Boswell of Aynho , who represent South Northamptonshire for 23 year and whom I also have the pleasure of meeting during my campaign . they both note that he have be describe in the Daily Telegraph as a saint . during my husting , one of my opponent , note my apparent " road to Damascus " conversion from commercial property lawyer to campaigner against inappropriate development , dub I " Saint Sarah on the road to Silverstone " . while I be not expect a call from the Pope any time soon , as a jibe I quite like that one ! South Northamptonshire be a constituency with a rich history — from Bozeat to Brackley , both of which be mention in the Domesday Book , and from Harpole to Deanshanger , the latter be the location of one of the 703 miracle that Thomas Becket perform , which lead to his canonisation . we seem to be truly bless . we have Lactodorum , or Towcester as it be now know , in the centre of the constituency , and the Saracens Head public house be mention in Charles Dickens ' " the Pickwick Papers " . we even have Sulgrave Manor , the ancestral home of the family of George Washington , the first President of the United States of America . have grow up in Rutland , I have to remember that the River Nene be pronounce " Nen " , not " Neen " — I be frequently quiz about that on the campaign trail . in recent week , I have suddenly become very popular with many member , and while I would love to think that it be because of my friendly nature , it turn out that many have realise that I have the world - famous Silverstone in my constituency , and they would love to address their need for speed . I be incredibly proud to represent the home of the Grand Prix , and this year to witness the victory of our british talent Lewis Hamilton . it be safe to say , give that King George VI have be the only reign monarch to attend a british motor race , that I would love to extend the invitation to his Majesty the King . I choose this clean energy debate for my maiden speech because it be an important issue that will have a big impact on my constituent . while there be no doubt that we need to look at renewable and diverse energy source for our future energy security , destroy thousand of acre of prime agricultural land can not be the solution to this ongoing question . in our area , we have already see the solar farm application make at Greatworth , and now the Green Hill solar farm , propose for a location near Grendon and the surround village in my constituency , would take over 2 , 000 acre of productive farmland and convert it to solar panel and associate battery storage . the fact that the Government have so quickly — in a matter of day — sign off proposal for over 6 , 000 acre of solar farm be of great concern to I because of the precedent that it will set . scheme like this will jeopardise our food security and scar our beautiful countryside , when there be other sensible solution . we should be look to industrial rooftop and transport corridor at a minimum . the Minister talk of community benefit , but there be no engagement with the community who have to live alongside and with these panel . it be a case of " marry in haste , repent at leisure " . disagree with the Government ' s approach to this matter lead I to mention one of my key priority for my time in this place . I firmly believe that in all our debate we can disagree agreeably , and that be a message I advocate during my election campaign . discussion nowadays be too polarised , too black and white , and far too hostile . we need robust debate and discussion , and we need to take the heat out of difficult issue so that we can reach the good resolution . I want to ensure that we adopt a fair and balanced approach , see both side of the issue but settle on that which resonate most , and that be always my promise . I also want to be a champion for those with hidden disability , such as diabete . have myself be give the shock diagnosis of late - onset type 1 diabete just three year ago , I understand the difficulty of adapt to life with a hidden condition . technology have enhance our quality of life , but it be still difficult to access that technology , and I want to help in whatever way I can and to champion this cause , as Lady May have over the year . one upside be that I will always be carry some form of sweet for low blood sugar , so member know where to come if they be in need ! before I end my speech , I want to take a moment to note my inspiration for enter politic : my father Kenneth , who be now an honorary alderman of Rutland as a result of his 20 year of service and his dedication to help his community . that dedication extend to my family too , in his marriage to my beautiful mother Maria ; they celebrate 51 year together in May . their love and dedication to each other be a model to follow , and I be privileged to have they as my parent . I also would not be here in this Chamber without the support of my sibling — my sister Lorraine , her husband Richard and their child Joshua , Dominic , Jonty and Olivia , and my brother Matthew and his wife Barbara . I say , " thank you beyond word . " when my parent first bring I to visit Parliament when I be about 10 year old , I could only have dream that one day I would be stand here address the House — and , indeed , they in the Gallery . dream really can come true . the honour to stand here today be and always will be mine . I say thank you to the people of South Northamptonshire for place their trust in I and allow I to champion their cause . I be here to serve they , regardless of political persuasion . I call Alan Gemmell to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate on energy policy — a subject of great importance to my constituent and people across the UK . I congratulate you on your recent election . I pay tribute to other hon . member who have take an early opportunity to give their maiden speech , include the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) . it be the first time I have follow someone on the road to canonisation — [ Laughter . ] I would also like to thank my colleague from Scotland who be speak today , include my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , and to agree with my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) about how good it be to hear so many scottish voice on this side of the House . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister say that this Government will be one of service , and it be an honour to speak in the Chamber as the Member for Central Ayrshire — the place where I be bear and raise , and where I live . it be a privilege to be in Parliament and in government , and to be here in the service of the community where I grow up . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Philippa Whitford , who be a popular and assiduous local MP , whose public service include a much celebrated career as a consultant breast cancer surgeon . I also pay tribute to two previous Labour mps , Sandra Osborne and Sir Brian Donohoe . Sandra be know as a champion of woman ' s right , and a campaigner against poverty and for peace in the middle east . Brian be well know to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as the chairman of the Members ' pension fund . he use his voluminous knowledge to good effect but , have speak to he at some length this weekend , I do not recommend individual consultation at this time . I also thank my husband . the spouse and family of politician sacrifice a lot for our career . Damien have be at my side around the world , and I be grateful to he for his support . many hon . member have speak of their constituency ' s beauty , while invite other member to visit . I do not feel the need to make that invitation , as I be happy to see member from this place , the other place and the Scottish Parliament in Troon last weekend for the final day of the Open . they be there not just for one of the good coastline in Scotland , great seafood and wonderful pub and hotel , but to see a world - class golfing competition that sell more than 250 , 000 ticket and will deliver more than £ 200 million to the local and scottish economy . Central Ayrshire be bless with great town and village , and people who work daily for our community . early this month , I meet the friend of the Broadway Prestwick , who be work tirelessly to raise million of pound to bring a 1930s cinema in the heart of the town back to life . their passion and commitment be inspiring . I visit the Troon lifeboat station and be tell that from 1871 to today , 668 life have be save by its brave volunteer . in Irvine , each year the Marymass festival , also know as Murmuss , see ten of thousand of people come to enjoy our parade , the crowning of the queen and team of people try to climb the greasy pole . if new member need help in that area , I be happy to invite the win team of this year ' s competition in the autumn . marymass include horserace on Irvine moor , at which my dad have be know to commentate . on the same moor in 1887 , Keir Hardie give his first record political speech in which he emphasise the need for work class representation in Parliament . much of Central Ayrshire have a connection with Robert Burns , Scotland ' s national bard . Burns live in Irvine for a time and co - found the Bachelors ' Club in the village of Tarbolton . Lochlea , in Craigie , be one of Scotland ' s new distillery and be on land that Burns once farm . it will be for my hon . friend the Members for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) and for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) to tell more about the man and the myth . I might remind the House of a prominent American who also make a visit to the constituency . on 3 March 1960 , Sergeant Elvis Presley spend a precious two hour in Prestwick airport . I think we can say that the rest be history for that man ' s career after some time spend on our precious soil . if hon . member be look at I today , they may see a whole lotta shakin ' goin ' on here too . Prestwick be today a centre of the scottish aerospace sector , with big ambition . I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to meet GE Caledonian during the election campaign to hear about the ten of million of pound of investment it have already secure . NATS in Prestwick — helpfully not the Nats from the Opposition Benches , but the UK ' s lead provider of air traffic control service — employ 600 highly skilled people at its centre and ensure that the 2 . 5 million flight to and from the UK each year arrive and depart safely . Spirit , one of the UK ' s large aerospace manufacturer , announce recently that its Prestwick operation , with over 1 , 200 people , would be well serve by a third - party owner , follow an acquisition by Boeing . I have have assurance from the company that Prestwick be an integral part of the Airbus supply chain and will continue to be a key supplier to Airbus under any new owner . aviation be critical to UK and Scottish GDP , and we should all be proud that it be an industry where the UK lead . I be proud that so much of it be in Central Ayrshire , where there be the potential to do much , much more . I come from an ordinary working - class family from my constituency . my mum progress from work in a factory to represent people at mental health tribunal as a lay advocate . my dad lose his job in the ' 80 and become a council binman — a job he be proud of . with great teacher and support , I have have incredible opportunity , include a life - change chance to study piano at the junior school of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music , and latterly be the UK ' s trade commissioner in south Asia , work with brilliant british , indian and Bangladeshi colleague to bring some ten of thousand of job to the UK and billion of pound of investment . with the Scotch Whisky Association , I help secure a 50 % reduction in tariff on Scotch in the state of Maharashtra . I be delighted to find out that Ardagh Glass in Irvine make much of the glass that the Scotch whisky market export around the world . but on return to my community to stand as their MP , I be shocked . far too many people be struggle , include the woman in Springside who say she turn off her freezer and cry every night from hunger , the man in Girdle Toll who say that he spend much of his life saving on knee surgery rather than wait in agony , and the family in Troon who have be wait two decade to access social housing and have give up hope . grandparent and parent be ask from where their child ' s job would come . I blame fail policy and fail politician for this poverty and lack of opportunity . that be why I be proud to campaign for a Labour Government lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister to deliver job and bring down bill with GB Energy , increase funding to our nhs and school , and ensure that the life of work people across the whole country improve . from sport and culture to trade and enterprise , this Government will turn struggle into hope and hard work into real opportunity . I have see the difference that have opportunity make . I be particularly happy this week to address a group of young people from north Ayrshire who have be inspire by Parliament ' s Education Centre and by the chance to stand as an MP in this place — I just hope that not too many of they will do it soon . I think that represent the UK around the world be the good job I could have have , but represent the family of Central Ayrshire will be the privilege of my life . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome you to your position . I congratulate the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) on his first contribution to this House ; it already sound as if he have make a huge contribution to the UK around the world , and I be sure his constituent be look forward to he act for they . I will begin by echo the word of my hon . friend the Members for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) and for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) about the impact on agricultural and rural land of the Government ' s plan to cover they with cable , pylon and other energy infrastructure . the sheer concentration of this infrastructure on prime agricultural land in community such as New Deer , Maud , Turriff and Leylodge in my constituency and the apparent lack of ability for community to engage in meaningful discussion on this will in no way bring the public along on this crucial national endeavour . however , I be go to focus on the key issue for my constituent and those across north - east Scotland , and that be the oil and gas sector : the job , expertise and investment that we will be put at risk if the Government rush towards their green energy agenda . no matter how much the Minister may wish otherwise , we can not and will not have a green energy revolution without the exist oil and gas sector , its skill and , crucially , its funding . the company that make their money from oil and gas development now be the key investor in our renewable energy sector and carbon capture project — that be undeniable . we must make the UK an attractive place to invest in all energy in order to attract and keep multinational company here , and to keep they invest here in the future . we have to draw only a very short line to realise that if we dismiss , alienate and penalise the traditional oil and gas part of energy company , the board of those same company will turn their back on the UK for more sympathetic and attractive investment opportunity elsewhere . we would lose not just the current investment in oil and gas , but the potential for investment in renewable energy . do the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero or the Minister expect that we will have stop use oil and gas by 2030 ? of course not , so why be we ban new oil and gas licence and cut off our own domestic energy supply ? why be the Government happy to see ten of thousand of home - grow job put at risk , and why be they happy to increase our reliance on import of oil and gas produce with a high carbon footprint from more volatile market overseas ? if there be a reason other than simply to fulfil their narrative of be a " green energy superpower " I be yet to find it . the UK , thank largely to Aberdeen and the north - east , have long be an energy superpower — an oil and gas superpower . that status , build over half a century , have lead to the energy sector ' s skill , expertise , company and workforce be hone and house in north - east Scotland — not just the subsurface and technical skill of the like of geologist and engineer , but , crucially , the expert in supply chain . those will be vital to the renewable energy project of the future . our worker in the oil and gas sector know how to deliver huge , multinational , high - budget project — exactly the skill that will be need to deliver the Government ' s green energy revolution . again , the Government risk lose those crucial skill by move too fast and not plan for a job and skill transition alongside the energy transition . labour idly call the investment allowance aspect of the windfall tax a " loophole " and plan to remove it and increase the tax rate to 78 % ; indeed , it boast about do so . yet there be estimate that the combination of no new licence and change to the windfall tax will cost £ 20 billion in tax revenue and risk up to 100 , 000 direct and indirect job . last year , the leader of the GMB union say that Labour ' s plan to end new oil and gas licence be " self - defeat " . I agree . do my hon . friend agree that while windfall taxis can be levy on oil and gas that be extract in the UK , we will not get those revenue for decade if we do not have oil and gas exploration in the North sea ? we will see windfall taxis go to foreign government across the world but none come here . do she agree that it make no sense at all , for job in Scotland or for the UK Exchequer , not to have oil and gas exploration in the North sea ? I absolutely agree . it be so important for all those reason — for job and future tax revenue — that we retain our domestic supply of oil and gas . alongside the leader of the GMB call the Government ' s plan " self - defeat " , the former leader of Aberdeen council quit Labour last year , say its plan be a " brutal attack " on the sector . again , I agree . just as Rome be not build in a day , the experience and expertise of the oil and gas sector — the energy sector — do not develop in a day . however , the vital skill and investment that we will rely on to deliver the transition to clean , green energy will be lose in no time at all if the government do not listen , appreciate they and act to protect they . the warning sign be there , and we must not ignore they . without the exist workforce , the energy transition will take long , be more expensive , and be less efficient — truly an unwanted trilogy for any Government . I call David Baines to make his maiden speech . I be delighted to be able to make my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for St Helens North during this important debate . before my election to this place , I be the leader of St Helens borough council and the Liverpool city region lead member for net zero , so this debate be on a subject that I care deeply about , and one that I hope to contribute to in the year ahead . if the House will indulge I briefly , we be at the end of the school year in England , so speak also as a former teacher , I put on record my thank and respect for teacher , teach assistant and all school staff . I know the challenge they have to overcome , how hard they have to work , and the difference they make as a result . I hope that they all have a very well - earn break in the come week and that , if they be not already by a pool , they be very soon . I congratulate all new member who have make their first contribution in this place so far . the previous maiden speech be make by my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) ; with his constituency ' s connection to Elvis and his own piano lesson , I hope he will be join the new parliamentary rock band , which I know my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) be keen to get set up . if they need a roadie , I be available . all the maiden speech so far have set a very high bar , and it be great to be a Member of a Parliament that look and sound like the country that we represent . it be diverse , and it be strong as a result . I also thank all parliamentary staff who have work so hard in recent week , help I and all of we to find our way around . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Conor McGinn . he serve St Helens North and the country with dedication , help to secure significant funding for our town centre and deliver Helen ' s law and equal marriage in Northern Ireland . there be many people on both side of the House who work with he and will miss see he around the place , and I know they will join I in wish he , his wife Kate , and their child the very good . it be the honour of my work life to be elect to serve St Helens North as its Member of Parliament . I grow up in the constituency , in the former mining village of Haydock — a person from Haydock be know locally as a Yicker , and I be fairly certain that I be the first Yicker elect to this place . I grow up there in the 1980 , raise by my mum and dad , who themselves grow up in Blackbrook and Parr . grow up at that time in St Helens , I could not help but be aware of politic . decision take in this place by the then Conservative Government deeply affect my community and the people in it , and not for the well . I have to wait until I be 17 to experience a government who demonstrate that they care about community like mine and people like I . my own child be now 11 and seven , and as their dad I be relieve for they that they will grow up under a Labour Government who be passionate about improve life for they and their generation , create opportunity , and rebuild Britain brick by brick . I thank the voter of St Helens North for give I the opportunity to serve , to be part of that change , and hopefully to prove that government and politic can be a force for good . I owe a huge amount of thank to my family , especially my mum and dad , and above all my wife Helen and my two child . member in all part of the House will know that you can not do this job and do it well without the support of your family , and that be certainly true in my case . my home of St Helens North be make up of historic , distinctive village around and include the town of St Helens and Newton - le - Willows . the industrial revolution and all the advance make by our country in the 1800 and beyond simply would not have happen without the toil and ingenuity of work people in the community that I be now proud to represent . from the railway to chemical and canal , from coal to glass and farming , it be the people of my constituency and many other similar area across the north of England who build and shape the 20th century . my constituency and the wide borough of St Helens be now home to thousand of business , from multinational brand to innovative and hard - work small and medium - sized company . we be also home to Parkside in Newton - le - Willows , a former colliery site that — thank to the hard work of previous mps , the Labour council , our partner Langtree , and the city region — be now be regenerate and develop into one of the most significant employment and investment site in the north - west of England , with huge potential for rail freight and advanced manufacturing . we need to make sure that young people have the skill and opportunity to access the job that this development and other will create in the year to come . this week ' s announcement about Skills England be therefore extremely welcome . my constituency be also a hotbed of sport . boxing , dart and numerous amateur club thrive in St Helens North . we be home to Haydock Park racecourse , the world ' s old open rugby club at Liverpool St Helens , which be found in 1857 , fantastic cricket and football club , and St Helens rugby league club — three - time rugby league world champion . although the ground be technically in St Helens South and Whiston , it do live in the heart and soul of many people in St Helens North , include mine . we be also home to a magnificent and hard - work charity and voluntary sector . our church and community group work all year round to support the most vulnerable , and this , to I , be what lie at the heart of what I love most about my home and the people I share it with . I have the responsibility of lead the local council through the pandemic , work hand in hand with many fantastic local organisation , as well as public and private sector partner . the kindness and strength that my community show during those time be overwhelming , as it be , I know , in most of the country . at the start of the pandemic , we set up a campaign call St Helens together to co - ordinate support , and I be proud to say that that ethos be still with we , as we work to collaborate on tackle the challenge we face . in my role as MP , I be excited to continue support that work and the many fantastic people and organisation involve . once proudly lancastrian , and to many of we still exactly that , my constituency , and the wide borough , be now also a lead member of the Liverpool city region , work to deliver the job , transport , skill and clean energy that St Helens North and the region need — which bring I to the subject of this morning ' s debate . as I mention at the start of my remark , I be the Liverpool city region lead for net zero before my election to this place , and I have the privilege of be involve in project such as HyNet , and Mersey Tidal , which have the potential to power 1 million home and create thousand of high - skilled job , and in St Helens we be deliver Glass Futures , which be a world - lead project that will decarbonise the global glass industry — no small boast . our metro mayor , Steve Rotheram , and local leader , include our new St Helens Borough Council leader , Anthony Burns , be ambitious for what we can achieve . just as we lead the world in the first industrial revolution , so we can lead it in the green industrial revolution . the threat of climate change be real , and it be urgent , but the mission to tackle it and the journey to net zero , if do in the right way , can also be an opportunity for new job , new investment , new skill and new opportunity for worker and for business — grow our local and regional economy and at the same time protect our energy security in a volatile world . great British Energy be just one vital and exciting part of Labour ' s broad agenda for government , and it be why I be proud to vote for the measure in the King ' s Speech . since those vote early this week , there have rightly be a lot of attention on child poverty , and , as someone who have be concern about this for almost all my work life , and who have try to raise the issue for year , I be delighted that it be finally be talk about . the previous Labour Government lift child out of poverty , and I have no doubt that this Government will too . but , if we be go to lift child and their family out of poverty , it have to be a whole - Government approach . everything be connect to everything else . we need the child poverty strategy , and action to follow it urgently , but we also need economic stability and a strong focus on inclusive growth . we need great British Energy and affordable energy . we need new social and genuinely affordable home . we need new job and the new deal for work people . we need investment in our town centre and high street , investment in public service and the staff who provide they , and high aspiration for every single child , start with a properly fund , properly resource , broad education . those be the manifesto commitment I support this week . it will not surprise anyone to hear that , as a former teacher , I be a firm believer that there be no great tool for social mobility or personal fulfilment than education , and I be evidence of it . I be a shy and quiet working - class kid at school , and it be not until I go to sixth - form college , and particularly university , that I eventually gain the confidence to believe in myself and stand up in front of other and speak — and I would never have dream that I would be do it here in this place . I would not be here today if it have not be for that experience of high education , and I think we should resist at all cost any of the grow argument that some degree and time spend learning be worthless , or that too many young people be do degree . what I suspect some of those behind such claim mean be , " too many of the wrong people " . well , if it be good enough for the child of the wealthy , it be good enough for working - class kid like I and those to come . all child deserve those opportunity , include those with special educational need . there be a crisis right now in the system , which be leave too many child and their family wait far too long for assessment , and then , when they be assess , they too often do not get the support they need , despite the good effort of their school and school staff . whether they be child in mainstream education with dyslexia or autism , or child in special school with more complex need , every child deserve to be able to access a full and vibrant curriculum with adequate support and adjustment to help they achieve their good . the parent of these child be every bit as ambitious for they as any other parent , just as parent of state school pupil be equally ambitious as those who can afford private school . all they ask , like any parent or any child , be for a fair chance . I be encourage to hear our new Government talk about these issue already , and about the challenge that our school , pupil and their family face . I intend to do all I can to help deliver the change that they , and we , all need . if young people be to access the job of today and tomorrow — in AI and life science , clean energy and more — we must be focus on open every possible door , not close they . in conclusion , we have be send to this place with a mandate to change the country and to change life for the well . there be a huge amount to do , but labour ' s plan for the country be ambitious and , most importantly , deliverable . for as long as I be in this place , I will do all I can to help give all our child and young people the tool and opportunity to reach their potential , and to ensure that the benefit of the change we will bring be feel by people in St Helens North , as well as the country as a whole . I call Alison Bennett to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your appointment to your new role . I congratulate the hon . member for St Helens North ( David Baines ) on his maiden speech and election to Parliament . he be right to remind we all about the role of aspiration and all child seek to do their good . I must pay tribute to my parent : to my father for spark my interest in politic , and my mother for tell I , when I be 17 , " if you don ' t try , you ' ll never know what you can do . " it be truly the honour of my life to take my seat in this place . I be the fourth person to serve Mid Sussex since the constituency be create in 1974 . I thank my predecessor , now the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , who have already give her time and support in relation to urgent issue affect child in both our constituency . it would be amiss not to acknowledge the noble Lord Soames in another place , who be hold in high regard by the good people of Mid Sussex . due to the vagary of boundary change , I have to go back some 50 year to the maiden speech give by the late Baron Renton to find the original and only maiden speech make by a Member of Parliament for Mid Sussex . on read that 1974 maiden speech , I briefly consider a simple copy - and - paste job , such be the relevance of his speech echo through the decade to the moment we find ourselves in today . he raise concern about the expansion of Gatwick airport , about housing growth without vital infrastructure , and about doctor and teacher not be able to afford a house . all those thing be important to people in my constituency , as well as to the Liberal Democrats . of special note be Baron Renton ' s call for more generous attendance and disability allowance , so that people can be properly care for by love one in their own home . the importance of have a care system that truly work and genuinely support carer be critical to ensure that we live in a civilised society , where regardless of someone ' s life stage and their physical or mental health , they can live the good life possible and achieve their potential . we must care about care . we must make that a priority of this new Parliament . a significant proportion of Mid Sussex , and the area that be my home , be formerly — give the most recent boundary change — part of the Arundel and South Downs constituency . I thank the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) for his courteous and prompt handover of casework . I probably owe a big debt of gratitude to his predecessor , Lord Herbert of South Downs . the noble Lord might not realise it , but he play a hand in light the touchpaper on my political journey that have lead I to be here today . during the EU referendum campaign , the noble Lord be chairman of Conservatives for Reform in Europe . he kindly agree to come to my village one afternoon to join a cross - party stall for remain that I be organise . it might be say that he inspire I . as a liberal Democrat , I will always advocate close tie with our european ally and neighbour . we believe that , in a world this unstable and dangerous , we be strong when we turn to face our close friend and neighbour . Co - operation , not antagonism , be the good way of tackle the challenge that our planet face . what of Mid Sussex ? I feel confident in assert that I and all my predecessor agree that the stunning beauty of our corner of England be spectacular . with the High Weald area of outstanding natural beauty in the north , and the South Downs national park in the south , we be truly blessed . I have feel truly bless to call Mid Sussex my home for the past 12 year , not only because of its beauty but because of its brilliant people . it be a place where extraordinary thing can and do happen because people pull together and step up . if it be not extraordinary enough that Mid Sussex , which have a conservative majority of 27 , 000 back in 2012 , have just elect a liberal Democrat , just this week former England player Gareth Barry sign for Hurstpierpoint football club — a village football team — and Nathan Hales be compete in the shooting at the Paris Olympics . we be all root for Nathan and the whole of Team GB . however , it be about more than individual effort ; it be about local collective determination . the village of Cuckfield have a proud identity , and it even make a unilateral declaration of independence in 1966 over the venue of the annual donkey grand national . the Bentswood Hub in Haywards Heath help people young and old with their mental health , bill and housing . the Burgess Hill Pantry be try to find a way to break the cycle of food bank dependency . this weekend , local charity Kangaroos be celebrate 30 year of help child with learn disability and their family . there be also incredible group work to tackle the climate crisis , which bring I to the subject of today ' s debate . Fairer World Lindfield , Hurst Rethink , and Greener Hassocks and Ditchling be tireless advocate and campaigner for the idea of start something to tackle the climate crisis rather than wait for the Government to get on board . greener Hassocks and Ditchling have put solar panel on the roof of Downlands community school in Hassocks . the Bolney wine estate have , in conjunction with the Brighton Energy Cooperative , put a solar array on the roof of its winery , which now generate over 50 % of the energy require to produce half a million bottle of wine . however , local group can only do so much ; they need the Government to create an environment in which it be easy to make the energy transition . speed up grid connection , for example , can currently take up to three year . we need to make well use of space that have no other purpose — industrial rooftop or the side of railway line — include for solar array . the will be there in Mid Sussex and , I be sure , right across the country . we need to do more and we must make it easy . our community , our constituent , our child and as yet unborn generation demand nothing less . I call Kirsteen Sullivan to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I congratulate you on your elevation to the Chair ? I be grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech , especially during this debate , give that Scotland be at the heart of the Government ' s plan to make the UK a green energy superpower . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , who give such a fantastic tribute to her constituency , and indeed all other hon . member who have speak with such passion and eloquence during their maiden speech , particularly my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) and for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I be glad that he be no long in the Chamber to hear my mispronunciation . I extend my gratitude to all parliamentary staff and those involve in the induction process . their limitless patience and understanding , and the wealth of information that they provide , have make a daunting process much easy to navigate , and they have do it all with welcome smile on their face , so I thank they . as many mention yesterday , this be no ordinary job , and there be no 9 to 5 hour . it would be impossible to do this without the love and support of our family , friend and campaign team . to my husband and our three child , our parent and friend , include those in our Labour family , I say , " thank you for your patience , your encouragement and your steadfast faith in I . " it be an incredible honour and privilege to serve as the first representative of the new constituency of Bathgate and Linlithgow . I must thank my predecessor , Martyn Day , for his service to the former constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . he serve as a Member of this place for nine year and , prior to that , as a councillor represent his hometown of Linlithgow for 16 year — a remarkable quarter century of public service , for which I thank he . I must also pay tribute to the former MP Michael Connarty , a friend and colleague who be always on hand with advice and support . campaign trail can be tough , with long hour , many mile walk , thousand of door knock and mountain of Haribo consume — other brand be available . one of the great pleasure of my campaign be meet so many people who share personal and heartwarming account of the help they receive from the former Father of the House , Tam Dalyell , or who simply know he as " Tam . " the affection and respect in which he be hold to this day be something to which I can only aspire , and I will endeavour to live up to his example of dedicated service to constituent . I can not confirm or deny whether this will involve be awkward . I be not a Bathgate bairn . I choose to make Bathgate my home almost 17 year ago , leave behind Scotland ' s great city , Glasgow , to lay down root for my family , and I could not have make a well decision . with the beauty of the Bathgate hill on my doorstep , as well as the Beecraigs and Polkemmet country park , the Kinneil local nature reserve and the shoreline at Bo ' ness and Blackness , I be never far from stunning and tranquil countryside . we must seek to protect and preserve this natural beauty for future generation . key to this be our effort to reach our net - zero target and combat climate change , which be cause significant damage to our environment , but let we be clear that our natural environment also have a key role to play in achieve our goal , so it be in our interest to do all we can to protect it . with the passion and commitment show by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and his team , ably represent today by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , and the ambitious plan that they have set out , include on support for community energy project , which I welcome as a co - operator , I be confident that we will leave a legacy for future generation to enjoy . our landscape also tell the story of our industrial and manufacturing heritage . from the shale bing across the constituency , and the former brickwork and foundry , to the former British Leyland site , Plessey Semiconductors — now Whiteside business park — and the Pyramids business park , which once house Motorola , the people of the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency have always embrace change and technological advance . the constituency have a highly skilled and flexible workforce , with opportunity attract worker from across the central belt , include the Glasgow overspill , which be still refer to as such today , despite many live in the area for almost 50 year . I recall my first visit to Aldo ' s chippy in Bathgate , when the lady behind the counter , recognise my accent , ask if I want salt and vinegar rather than salt and sauce , which be a topic of heated debate between Glasgow and Edinburgh colleague — of course , the correct answer be salt and vinegar . however , the story of the constituency have not always be one of prosperity . this year mark the 40th anniversary of the miner ' strike and the subsequent closure of Polkemmet colliery after the pit pump be switch off , flood the gallery . the smoulder slag heap have be remove , and new house have be build as part of one of the big regeneration project in Europe , but the town of Whitburn and the surround community be devastate , with many family endure severe hardship . the mistake of the past must not be repeat . lesson must be learn about the impact of such loss on individual , on family and on entire community . that be why I support the fight to keep Grangemouth work and to keep the job on which many of my constituent rely , particularly in Bo ' ness and Linlithgow . I thank my hon . friend on the Front Bench for their proactive approach to work towards a sustainable future for the site ; I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , who have be steadfast and vocal in his support for the campaign . while we honour our history and the tradition of the past , we look to the future with hope and ambition . we be situate at the heart of Scotland , with easy access across the central belt via the M8 and M9 and rail route to our great city and beyond — with the unfortunate exception of Winchburgh , which still await its train station . More people be choose to live in the constituency , and more company be choose to locate there to do business , include in manufacturing , technology , communication , logistic , retail and hospitality . tourism also drive our local economy , particularly in the royal burgh of Linlithgow . with the royal palace set aside the loch and the peel , St Michael ' s church and its newly refurbish crown of thorn , the Union canal , the historic canal basin it pass through , and other treasure , there be plenty of reason to linger long in Linlithgow . in Bo ' ness , we have the steam railway museum , the motor museum , the restore Hippodrome theatre and numerous place of interest . we be also see a growth in tourism as a result of the increase in tv and film production in the area . the Blackness Bay distillery , set in the picturesque village of Blackness , be one example : it be benefit from the increase in visitor to the castle as a result of the success of " Outlander " . I can tell those who have not visit yet that they will receive the warm of welcome from Sheena and Colm at the distillery . I also want to mention the major historic house attraction of Kinneil House , Hopetoun House and House of the Binns , the ancestral home of the Dalyell family , as place to visit . as a Labour and Co - operative Member , I see the opportunity to expand the co - operative economy , put power directly in the hand of local people for the benefit of local community . I look forward to work with fellow co - operator to do just that . although job and opportunity be on our doorstep , too many people still face barrier to employment and many be not earn enough to get by . that create huge demand on local food bank and other vital support service , include those offer by our local third sector organisation , which do a tremendous and invaluable job . child poverty be a scandal that blight community across the country and in my constituency , but it do not exist in a vacuum . low pay , high rent , high mortgage , exorbitant energy bill and the rise cost of food all contribute to severe financial pressure on family . that be why I welcome the announcement of the child poverty taskforce , which will bring together voice inside Government and those of outside expert to take a holistic and targeted approach to tackle this scourge and ensure that every child have a chance to achieve their goal , irrespective of their background . with more people choose to live in the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency , we be see increase pressure on vital local service , which be significantly underfunde , as well as pressure on GP surgery and on our local infrastructure . both the Avon gorge junction and the Burghmuir junction be in serious need of upgrading . with under - investment in bus transport at a scottish level , our more rural community , such as Greenrigg , Newton , Philpstoun , Bridgend , Torphichen , Westfield , Blackridge , Seafield and even the town of Blackburn , be struggle to keep connect . it be crucial that investment in vital service and local infrastructure keep pace with development , and that be something that I will champion in my constituency . as a young girl grow up in the small village of Lennoxtown at the foot of the Campsie hill , never do I think that I would be stand here in the House of Commons as one of 263 female mps , the high ever number of woman representative . that do not just happen ; we be here only because of the woman who forge the way for we , such as the incomparable Harriet Harman , who I have the pleasure of meeting for the first time at last year ' s Edinburgh festival . it be empower to see so many incredible labour woman take their rightful place on our front Benches . their example will let young girl today know that they can be here one day , too . while the increase in woman member to 40 % of this place be hugely welcome , we still have much work to do to achieve 50 : 50 representation . as a councillor , I work to remove barrier to participation , do my bit to ensure that council chamber start to reflect the community that we represent . I pledge to continue that work with hon . member in and across this Chamber . finally , I think most people here would agree that our politic have be mire by division and scandal in recent year , and that have undermine public trust in politician . we have a duty to restore that trust , which be key to our democracy . in Scotland , there have be far too much finger pointing , with representative retreat to their respective trench and endless constitutional debate that ultimately deliver nothing for the people of Scotland . I welcome the new approach of work with the devolved government , and the response from the Scottish Government on issue such as the tobacco and vape Bill and , hopefully , a UK - wide deposit return scheme . this relationship reset will be far strengthen by the new council of nation and region , which will facilitate a return to constructive engagement and co - operation in the interest of the people we be all here to serve . for my part , I will work with hon . member in this place and with elect representative in all chamber to deliver for the people of Bathgate and Linlithgow . my constituent have bestow their faith on I , and for that I thank they . it be a responsibility that I will carry every single day , and I pledge to be the champion and advocate they need and deserve . it be my pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) . I congratulate she on her eloquent and passionate speech , and particularly on her call for gender balance . I be sorry to tell she , though , that her use of the native tongue appear to have bring the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) back to the Chamber . whether that be to congratulate she or correct she , I be not quite sure . move swiftly on , the area that I be privileged to represent have be at the heart of the UK ' s energy production for 50 year and more , and it be now poise to be at the forefront of a renewable energy revolution . frankly , we could and should be much far along the road to energy transition , but we be where we be . the Government have say that they want we to become a clean energy superpower , but I regret that they have scale back on their original ambition to invest £ 28 billion in order to realise that goal . nevertheless , I hope that they will chart a pragmatic and constructive way forward . the journey to net zero be well under way in Scotland , with estimate suggest that the renewable sector already support around 42 , 000 job . the UK , though , be behind schedule when it come to invest in the infrastructure , include the grid infrastructure , that those project will require . the unrealistic pricing of contract for difference have hold back the development of offshore wind . the new Government need to address that issue with the same urgency with which they be move on other matter . the north - east of Scotland have be the european capital of oil and gas for many decade . now we have the opportunity to be the net zero capital . we have enormous potential to capitalise on offshore wind generation and the development of green hydrogen . these be time - limit opportunity , especially as we have ambition to develop lucrative supply chain , as well as technology and manufacturing that have significant export potential . in the long term , that would be the prize for our economic future . I want to impress on Ministers today the case for bring the HQ of GB Energy to the north - east of Scotland . just look at a map : the bulk of offshore renewable production will be within a 100 - mile radius of Aberdeen . the port that will be essential to service the sector , most notably Peterhead and Fraserburgh in my constituency , be on the east coast , close to the Moray Firth . there be also important potential role for small port . we already have a workforce with relevant skill and unrivalled experience . we also have the most to lose ; accord to research publish last year by Robert Gordon University , around one in five job across north - east Scotland be in the oil and gas sector . I do not want to see a repeat of what the Thatcher Government do in mining and steelmake community across Scotland and elsewhere . perhaps as much as 80 % of skill in oil and gas be crossover skill . we must support that crossover . successive UK government have use the North sea as a cash cow . some £ 10 . 6 billion flow into the Treasury coffer in 2022 - 23 , but there have not be a great deal to show for it in Aberdeen city or Aberdeenshire , in term of infrastructure or investment in that crucial transition . I hope that can change go forward . as we debate the need to address climate change , improve energy security and deliver a fair deal for consumer , it be important to acknowledge the reality : we will continue to need oil and gas for some time to come . many of we be still use gas to heat our home . fuel poverty be very real . high standing charge and a cold climate be a brutal combination that push thousand upon thousand of household into energy poverty . Most of we still use car that run on petrol or diesel . in area like mine , where distance be great , public transport be more limited . colder winter temperature mean electric vehicle work less well and the use of traditional vehicle be accentuate . our reliance on fossil fuel be fall , but it be not about to disappear . oil and gas will continue to be part of our energy mix for some time , which be why it be important that ongoing production be in line with climate compatibility criterion , and be manage in a way that do not lead to a premature winding down of production in the North sea . however , the current fiscal regime for North sea production have create a very real and present risk . it have the potential to cost thousand of job and saddle the Treasury with cumulative decommisioning cost . I ask Ministers to look at the impact that the energy profit levy have have on job and productivity , consider the role of the energy security investment mechanism , and acknowledge the importance of investment allowance . why ? because the fiscal regime in the North sea be hold back investment in energy transition . we need to recognise that North sea operator be , in many case , those who be make the big investment in renewable . if the Government really want to unlock the potential of the renewable energy sector , they need to work with those who can invest on the scale require and over the necessary timeframe , and who already have an experienced , expert workforce at their disposal . I would welcome the Minister ' s comment , in his sum up , on the Government ' s plan for a fair fiscal environment across the energy sector . I will make one final point , on carbon capture and storage . we need to press on with project such as the Acorn project at St Fergus precisely because they be cut edge and have tremendous potential to create new technology , knowledge and expertise . we have a globally competitive subsea supply chain in the north - east of Scotland . we excel in develop solution to technical challenge . we see challenge as opportunity , and we seek to be leader in innovative new technology . there be the potential to deliver fair energy price for consumer , improve energy security and help we to meet our international climate obligation . the north - east of Scotland and community in my constituency in particular will be at the centre of the change ahead . I urge Ministers to make good on their promise , and deliver a manage and just transition for those worker and community on the frontline . I call Douglas McAllister to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech to the House in this debate on make Britain a clean energy superpower . I congratulate you on your elevation . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , who always speak with great eloquence and passion . it be also a privilege to speak in a debate lead by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) . I offer he my warm congratulation as he take up his position , and I wish he well , as I be sure we all do . I recognise the great honour that have be bestow on all of we to be in this House , and I be so proud and fortunate to represent my constituency of West Dunbartonshire . it contain three very distinct community , the Vale of Leven and the town of Dumbarton and Clydebank , the latter of which be my home town . I have live in Clydebank with my family all my life , and I pledge to work tirelessly in this place for all my fellow resident . my constituency can well be describe as stretch from the bank of the River Clyde to the shore of Loch Lomond , from industrial Clydeside to the gateway to the highland . I therefore can boast of the unrivalled natural beauty of Loch Lomond and Dumbarton castle , one of Scotland ' s royal castle . the town of Dumbarton be the ancient capital of Strathclyde , grant royal burgh status by Alexander II in 1222 , and it be home to Denny ' s shipyard , which build the Cutty Sark . the Vale of Leven be renowned for its Turkey red dye and print cotton , export across the globe . singer ' s factory in my home town , where my late father work , make the famous sewing machine , and there be a time last century when virtually every home in the land possess a Singer sewing machine . Clydebank be synonymous with John Brown ' s shipyard , where the Queen Elizabeth , the Queen Mary , the QEII and the Royal Yacht Britannia be build — a history we be rightly proud of . however , in do that , we gain an unwanted legacy as the european hotspot for asbestos - relate industrial illness and death . it be on that cause , among countless other , that I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Martin Docherty - Hughes . Martin be a powerful advocate in this place in the pursuit of truth and justice for the victim of asbestos - relate industrial death and for their family in the fight for fair compensation . I know how closely he work with the Clydebank Asbestos Group , and it be now incumbent on I to pick up the baton . Martin Docherty - Hughes conduct himself with great dignity before and after the general election , and I wish to thank he for his nine year of service and the generosity and courtesy he extend to I throughout . I wish he the very good in his future endeavour . the great honour of represent West Dunbartonshire be emphasise yet far when I reflect on my other predecessor who serve with great distinction in this House , include Gemma Doyle and my great friend Tony Worthington , who represent the former constituency of Clydebank and Milngavie . it be truly humble to follow they and , of course , the Lord Speaker , Lord McFall of Alcluith , who be also renowned for his chairmanship of the Treasury Committee in this place . many of the great industry of the Clyde be sadly go , consign to history , and while as a Bankie I be rightly proud of our history , it be to our future that I look . I be elect by my constituent to deliver change , and I be determined to do that and to play my part in ensure that all community across West Dunbartonshire can look forward to a dynamic and prosperous future . the work of the regeneration of Clydeside and the town centre of Clydebank , Dumbarton and the Vale of Leven will be my priority . the Government have the ambition to grow the economy , make work pay , and create job and new employment opportunity for our young people , and I have great confidence in the ability of the youth of West Dunbartonshire to match those ambition . provide they with the same life opportunity as child in any other constituency across this great nation of our will be my driving mission . I pledge during the election campaign to fight to ensure that everyone in my constituency have access to that very basic of right : a safe , warm and affordable home . my local authority of West Dunbartonshire declare a housing emergency in May , amid unprecedented pressure on the ability to meet the need of those in social housing or seek a council property . I welcome my Government ' s ambition to unlock the barrier to build more home , but it be essential that they be affordable so as to tackle that injustice and insecurity . that be why we campaign for a publicly own GB Energy company headquarter in Scotland . it be therefore particularly satisfying to make my maiden speech during this debate . GB Energy will cut bill in West Dunbartonshire , deliver energy security and put Scotland at the forefront of the clean energy revolution . it will be publicly own and will utilise our extraordinary natural resource . that bring I back to the natural resource of the River Clyde . the yard may have go , but the future be with clean energy . on the site of the former John Brown ' s shipyard , to which I refer early , be now the West Dunbartonshire energy centre , a groundbreake project feature Scotland ' s large water source heat pump installation , which take water from the River Clyde and use it to generate heat . this publicly own district heating system be truly groundbreake , help West Dunbartonshire to transition towards a net zero future . crucially , it also allow we to address the fuel poverty of my fellow resident . I will be delighted to welcome the Minister to visit the centre in the very near future . in take my place in this House , I step away from 25 year of appear daily in court throughout Scotland . as a solicitor , I represent some of the most vulnerable member of our society . as I step away from the profession to take my seat in this House , I do so with a heavy heart . I leave behind a demoralise profession ignore by successive government , who fail to recognise that a properly fund legal aid scheme be the bedrock of a fair society . my experience be with the scottish court , but I understand that south of the border the system be in similar peril . I be sure the House will recognise that uphold , respect and promote the rule of law require we to ensure access to justice , fair representation and a widening of the scope of legal aid eligibility , and also to recognise that the court be as vital a public asset and as much of a foundation stone of society as school , social service and hospital . I also leave 21 year of unbroken service to local government as a councillor at West Dunbartonshire . local government be on its knee , starve of vital funding , the last of the low - hang fruit long since pick . frontline service be under serious threat , and I wish for this House to recognise those across all political party and in all public office at local government level , and all the highly dedicated staff who share the same desire as we all do across this House to advance the wellbeing of our local community . they deserve great support from we . my constituency be support in this endeavour by a wealth of local charity and community organisation . as provost of West Dunbartonshire , I gain unique insight into this vital support chain , which include group such as Mentor Scotland that provide mental health support , as well as the Men ' s Shed , local not - for - profit trust such as Flourishing Faifley , Bags full of Love , Duntocher village hall , Antonine Sports and the Skylark IX Recovery Trust . these and the countless faith group across my constituency provide food bank and shelter truly be the good of our society . I can not finish my maiden speech without recognise the NHS and all its staff . the NHS be in my dna . my mother be a nurse and a midwife . in particular , I wish to thank the staff at the Beatson hospital in Glasgow . the NHS save my life back in 2007 when I battle leukaemia . I appreciate that I be fortunate to be in this House , and I will not waste this opportunity to help save our NHS and to ensure that this Government improve our national health service — a service for all , provide care on the basis of need , regardless of ability to pay . this son of a factory worker and NHS nurse , husband to Alison , father to Tom and Peter , give this House a solemn undertaking that no matter how long or short my time in this place may be , my define mission will be to fight for a fair society for my constituent of West Dunbartonshire and be relentless in my duty to serve their interest . rise — Order . I will start the Front - Bench wind - up at 2 . 10 pm . I call James MacCleary to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) for his excellent speech . he be clearly very knowledgeable about his area and I think he will be a hugely positive addition to this House . it be a huge privilege for I to represent the Lewes constituency . it be my home and it be where I be raise , with my partner , our young family . I want to start there , with my family — my partner , Donna , and our two young child , Amelia and Elliott . I want to thank they for their support . in fact , Elliott ask I to bring you guy a message today : he say that if anyone be in the market for trade any Pok é mon card , he be open to a discussion . it have be a really long road , but they have be there every single step of the way and I genuinely could not have do this without their help . I also want to thank the voter in my community for put their trust in I . that include those who lend I their support tactically in this election . I will always campaign for electoral reform so that everybody ' s vote really count . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Maria Caulfield , who be the MP for Lewes for nine year . Lewes be a very old constituency that can be trace back hundred of year , and Maria be the first woman to represent the seat . she serve in the last government as a Health Minister and Women ' s Minister . among other achievement , she be instrumental in introduce baby loss certificate for parent who have suffer the death of a baby — an important and welcome initiative . we certainly have our difference , but they be political rather than personal , and I sincerely wish Maria and her husband , Steve , all the very good for the future . let I tell the House a little bit about my constituency . I will start in our historic county town . every year , on 5 November , the town of Lewes host one of the large and most anarchic bonfire celebration . it be an annual manifestation of the town ' s fiercely independent spirit . the street be pack with ten of thousand of visitor to see the magnificent effigy that be parade through the town to the various fire site . often , they include prominent political figure , so please remember — I say this in particular to the new Government Front Benchers — that if you be send an image or a video of an effigy of yourself be blow up in Lewes in November , it really be a great honour . member will just have to trust I on that . down the road on the coast be Newhaven and Seaford , the latter be the large town in my constituency . it be in desperate need of a new health centre , and I will continue to press for the redevelopment of the exist town centre site . it be also a former Cinque port , with a magnificent sweeping beach that retain the most complete example of a Martello tower on the south coast . build in the early 19th century to defend the country against a napoleonic invasion that never come , it be now home to the town ' s fantastic museum , which I really recommend that member visit if they be ever there . the town have be represent in its time as a separate borough by not one but two former Prime Ministers , George Canning and William Pitt the Younger . Seaford cease to be a port when the River Ouse change course after a violent storm break through at Newhaven . ever since then , Newhaven have be an important port town with a proud industrial heritage and varied history . it also happen to be where I live . every day , visitor come through Newhaven to use the excellent ferry link to Dieppe and to visit our historic Palmerston fort — or , at least , they will when it complete its £ 5 million renovation . it be a town experience a renaissance after year of neglect , and it will see a new health hub in the town centre and investment in our outdoor space and our fishing industry . it be also a town with some pretty unique claim to fame . newhaven be the last know whereabouts of Lord Lucan , have a plaque dedicate to Ho Chi Minh , who be say to have work on the ferry , and have a bench dedicate to the american rapper Eazy - E , for reason unknown . at the eastern end of the constituency be Polegate , Willingdon and Stone Cross . know for their historic windmill , these community have be at the sharp end of house building , without the necessary infrastructure to support it . I will work with the NHS and local council to secure the funding need for the promise new health hub in Willingdon and improvement to health facility in Polegate . I will also be keep a very close eye on the Government ' s proposal for planning . run through the middle of the constituency be the South Downs national park . the town of Lewes be in fact the large town in a national park anywhere in the country . we be also home to the Seven Sisters country park , with its famous cliff . we have award - win vineyard and brewery , and a thriving art and cultural scene that boast the world - famous Glyndebourne opera house and the Charleston festival . we be lucky to have some picture - perfect village with their own uniqueness , among they Ditchling , with its art and craft museum showcase the work that make the village a creative hub in the 20th century , and Plumpton with its racecourse . there be also the giant white outline of the Long Man , who stand guard over Wilmington . some of our village also have unique feature . Alfriston be home to the Clergy House — the first property acquire by the National Trust , for £ 10 in 1896 — while Jevington claim to be the birthplace of banoffee pie . we have two beautiful river , the Cuckmere and the Ouse , which flow into Seaford bay . sadly , they have be use by Southern Water as a dumping ground for sewage , and have have sewage discharge in recent week . I look forward to see the proposal bring forward by this Government to take on sewage dumping . move on to today ' s debate , it be encouraging to hear support from many member for ramp up renewable energy . our constituent , the business community and the UK ' s international ally be carefully watch this new Government and Parliament to see if we be serious about once again make the UK a leader in the transition to a clean , safe and inclusive low - carbon economy . I hope we will work together in a constructive spirit to show that we be indeed serious and that fine word will be match by bold action . locally , we have see the benefit of community energy and heat network . we must ensure that community that be take on renewable energy facility , such as for solar power , can directly benefit . that should include community ownership of small - scale scheme . it be not just about energy generation ; it be about transmission . other hon . member have mention delay in renewable energy scheme get off the ground because of connectivity issue to the grid . I congratulate the new Minister on his appointment , and I would be delighted to welcome he to my constituency at some stage to discuss the important role that community energy and microgeneration can play in our future energy mix , and introduce he to some of the people work hard on the ground in my community to make it happen . on a large scale , we have the major offshore wind array , which be service from Newhaven port . the Rampion wind array generate enough energy to power 350 , 000 home and be sign off by the then Secretary of State for Energy , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . many hon . member be parent like I . we all need to be able to look our child in the eye and say that we do everything we could to secure their future and that of all future generation . do the good for our child — for all child — be one of my personal political priority , particularly through the early year . we need to start treat childcare less as a cost to the taxpayer and more as an investment in the future of our country . in a previous job , I work in deprive community across the country to support improve literacy for young child . the transformative effect of supportive learning in the first five year of a child ' s life be immense . I be pleased to hear the Government talk more about free and subsidised childcare , but that must be match with a real commitment to funding nursery and other early year setting properly . thousand of nursery have close down in recent year , and we have to think about support early year provider as well as parent . I be proud to represent my constituency , humble to sit in this House and determine to make the most of every day that I have to be the good possible MP for the people of Lewes . the last Liberal Democrat to hold the title be the formidable Norman Baker , and I too intend to work hard for every corner of the constituency . in the five year since the last election the country have be through a lot . the high public office have , at time , be degrade , and trust in politic remain low . we have an opportunity and a responsibility to get our politic and our country on to a well , fair , green and more prosperous path . I look forward to work constructively with the Government and other opposition party to help deliver just that . not a day go by when the consequence of our inaction be not hideously illustrate . the wildfire in Canada today should shock we all into action , with 25 , 000 people have be displace from their home . the previous Government continually pour fuel on the fire of the climate crisis , entrench our reliance on volatile international market , but this Government have plan to totally turn the corner . our journey to become a clean energy superpower be not only an environmental imperative but a chance for economic growth and to address the cost of live crisis while make Britain energy - independent . that be why I welcome the Government ' s plan to launch Great British Energy , a publicly own company fund by make big oil and gas pay their fair share from the incredible windfall they have be receive . this initiative demonstrate a strong commitment to cut carbon emission and embrace renewable . it be a crucial step to lower our bill through a zero - carbon electricity system . it be so important that we ensure that this step be co - ordinated , work with new initiative such as Skills England to ensure that across the board we be increase training opportunity , especially in key area such as maritime apprenticeship , which will help with our offshore wind effort . it be also incredibly important that we unlock the potential of community energy , which have a vast untapped potential for small scale renewable scheme that could be own and operate by local community , build that resilience into our community directly . realise that potential would bring clean , affordable and secure energy to local people . I very much look forward to work with the Front - Bench team on these issue , and support the Bill as it make its passage through this House . I congratulate the Minister on his appointment . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulate member from across the House on their wonderful maiden speech . I have 20 minute of praise for they , highlight every aspect of their wonderful speech , but unfortunately time be limited , so I shall have to give a quick analysis of praise for they all . I be secretly delighted that I do not have to try out my Scottish Gaelic — [ interruption . ] I know , it be sad but true ; that might be for the next debate . it be wonderful and heart - warming to hear from hon . member across the House , from East Thanet to every part of Scotland , include the highland and Glasgow South West , and from South Northamptonshire , and with all member care about their local community and represent all the people who matter and who elect they . that be what matter in this place . I feel that now I be an expert in all thing Scotland — never have I be so afraid to talk about and name everything than when I have to do a Burns night toast . I hope that someday I can visit all those wonderful constituency . it make I realise that Scotland be a very inclusive , diverse and wonderful place , and I would like to sample the whisky and the hospitality from Loch Lomond to the highland . I praise all hon . member here today . I be someone whose contribution often make people think , " gosh , that ' s an unusual Beaconsfield accent " , so I be always delighted to hear sparkle speech from voice less grating than my own — it be nail on a chalkboard , and you adjust over time — celebrate the diversity in the Chamber . during today ' s debate we hear some superb maiden speech from Labour Members , and so many of they ! even I be confused about who be the new Labour mps — that be how many of they there be , so congratulation . I welcome the Minister to his position . he will definitely be go far , and my claim to fame will be that I get to debate with he first here in the House . he be also a Scottish MP , and I welcome he and congratulate he on his ministerial position . I be also pleased to be shadow a department lead by a fellow London School of Economics alumnus , but disappoint that the Secretary of State be not here to respond to or open the debate . I know in what high regard he be hold by the Labour movement . his high ideal and socialist principle be in the very good intellectual tradition of his party , but he be now in government , and I fear that the change he want to bring about will make work people poorer and put our energy and food security in the hand of Russia and China . in just three week , as my hon . friend the Members for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) and for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) point out , the Secretary of State have ignore local community ; he have ignore planning professional ; he have ignore sound decision making ; and he have ignore basic economic . he seem to be in a race to deliver high bill and high taxis for work people , and a poor , less safe Britain . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will give way in a moment , but I must make a little progress first , because I have only five minute if I be to allow time for the Minister . we on the conservative Benches will keep call these plan out for what they be : a dangerous experiment that will damage the british countryside , wreck the livelihood of hard - work british people and drive up energy bill . let we examine the progress of this experiment so far . during the election campaign , the Secretary of State get Labour candidate to claim that GB Energy would save £ 300 on energy bill , but that do not seem to be something that the Government be go to stand behind now . I would ask why that be , and what plan there be for the future in this regard . the Government have form an energy company that will not generate a single watt of energy , and will not bring down a single energy bill . they have take £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money , and put a shiny brand on it call GB Energy . GB Energy be simply the Government subsidise high - risk project for the private sector on one hand , while decimate our oil and gas industry with the other . they have set up a new company and claim that it will make profit in five year , with nothing but 14 page of a hot - air found statement — with no business plan , no financial forecast , and nothing else . be the shadow Minister not aware it be exactly that negative narrative from her party that have hold we back on the path to net zero ? I know that the hon . Member be a strong advocate for her local community , and that be an important cross - party awareness ; but we be in this position now , and I say to the Government , " you win , and we be here to hold you to account on your new endeavour . we wish you all the good , but it be our job to hold you to account . " if GB Energy be a private company , no investor would touch it with a bargepole , yet the Government get to play with the money of hard - work british taxpayer while simultaneously hit they with high taxis and high bill in return for that privilege . the Secretary of State doubtless think that he be courageously save the planet , but he be not quite courageous enough to go to Aberdeen , or to be here today , or to speak to those in the North sea who will lose their job . this be now serious . it be serious because the Government be write cheque that the british people can not afford and Ministers will never have to pay ; it be serious because they be betray the trust of local community ; it serious because they be put at risk our energy and food security at a time when both have never be more vital ; and it be serious because those who will suffer for their net zero purity be work people . these be not plan for a clean energy superpower . they be plan for a weak , poor Britain . with the leave of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will respond to what have be a very wide - range and — until that last speech — a mostly positive debate . I thank all those who have contribute and have bring we their idea and their huge experience , not just in relation to the green energy transition but in relation to everything from the care system and child poverty to vital matter of public discourse such as what we should put on our chip . that be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) , and , for the record , what she say be absolutely right . I want to say something about the maiden speech that we have hear today , because it have be genuinely incredible to sit on the Front Bench and listen to they all . the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) say a moment ago that they have give she quite a lot to reflect on . I have 20 - odd page of note here on those wonderful maiden speech , but I have only 10 minute in which to sum up . it be not so long ago that I give my own maiden speech — less than a year ago , in fact — and the same trepidation that I have when I stand up then be with I now . I have to say , on reflection , that I be glad I be the only person give a maiden speech , after a by - election , because this field of maiden speech be just a little too good : they be fantastic . the House often come in for criticism for no long be the place where we take the moral course or talk about the high value of public service , but in every single one of those maiden speech , from every part of the House , we hear the real dedication of member to their community and the passion with which they want to fight for those community . I think that this Parliament , the Parliament of 2024 , will do a huge amount to change people ' s life . I will turn now to the substance of the debate , but I will come back to some of the maiden speech if I have time . in her opening remark , the shadow Secretary of State say that the conservative party can be proud of its climate record , and in so many way , if we be to go back year , she would probably be right . but the rhetoric that we be now hear from this conservative party be a million mile from that David Cameron conservativism that say we should take the environment seriously . language in this matter be important . it matter that we talk truthfully when we speak about the opportunity and risk . it matter , too , that we do not conflate issue when there be no ground for do so . I wish to pick out just a few thing from the debate today . the shadow Secretary of State and a number of member raise the issue of bill . have sit and listen to those contribution , I do wonder where some member have be for the past few year . there can scarcely be a Member in this House who do not know of the thousand of people up and down this country struggle in fuel poverty , and the million who be still face high bill . the reason that we be on this journey be not because of some sort of ideological commitment to net zero , but because we know that it be the only way to deliver the energy security that we need to reduce our dependence on volatile gas price and to deliver the cheap energy that we know will bring down bill . the commitment that we make throughout the election have not change in the slight . we will bring down people ' s bill in the long term to avoid those shock that have cost people so much in their household bill . in what I think be a great speech , the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) point out that this can not be about growth versus green , which be really important . the two go hand in hand . it be a key part of both our economic strategy and our environmental strategy that we move forward . she also make the point about co - ordinate across Government , which be also important . it be why the Prime Minister himself be chair these mission board , so that we can bring together all department of State and internal and external voice to drive forward the change that be need across Government . on the oil and gas transition , the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) and for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , who be perhaps not surprisingly on the same side in criticise this government , make a number of point about the North Sea , which be important and which I take on board very seriously . none the less , the suggestion that the North sea be go to close overnight be nonsense and it have to stop be peddle by member across the House , because it create unnecessary uncertainty . there will be decade of work in the oil and gas industry in the North sea , whether or not we issue new licence . and , as have be mention , the skill , the experience and the infrastructure that be vital for a net zero transition be important . that be why we need to start the just transition now . it be why we should have start it year ago , frankly . we can not simply bury our head in the sand and hope that the economic reality of the future will be the same as the past . the North sea be decline as an oil and gas basin . we need to tackle what the future of that look like now . on the issue of scaremongere , the various contribution that have touch on solar could mark a really worrying change in the discourse that we be go to have in this House if we carry on the way that we be . the genuine question about planning be important , and it be right that Members of Parliament be robust — indeed I would be myself as a constituency MP — in the defence of their constituent on these issue . none the less , there be such a thing as nationally important infrastructure , which be important for the whole country . say that there be go to be food insecurity because of these solar project be incredibly dangerous language from the opposition . indeed , the National Farmers Union , respond to some of that scaremongering , say that solar farm do not in any way present a risk to the UK ' s food security . solar farm make up less than 1 % of the land use in this country . even if we reach the target that we want to get to , they will still make up a tiny amount of our land use , and they be an important part of our energy infrastructure . I accept that the figure at the moment be 1 % , but the volume of solar application come forward literally every week in my constituency alone mean that the cumulative impact will be a hit to food security . I gently ask the Minister to look at the project number for the future , not what we already have . rise — will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , because I have only four minute . if I have time , I will come back to the hon . Lady . the hon . Gentleman have repeat the point about food insecurity , despite I just say what the National Farmers Union — which I think be an expert on this topic — have say about it . he have also make a point about the amount of infrastructure in one give area , which be why it be really important that we co - ordinate that infrastructure much well than we do at the moment . that be why the spatial energy plan be so important ; the previous Government commence that work , and we will continue it , because we need a holistic view of all this energy infrastructure so that individual community do not become saturate with one particular type of infrastructure . however , I say gently to all hon . member that at some point we have to accept that some of that infrastructure be nationally important and will have to be site somewhere . even if we have offshore cable , that infrastructure , by its very nature , have to come onshore at some point . there will have to be a recognition of the need for infrastructure in community , but I take the point about the importance of it be well plan . will the Minister give way ? I will first give way briefly to the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) . the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) raise a concern about solar threaten our ability to grow our own food in this country . I respectfully suggest that he check out the recent research by Exeter University , which show that we could increase the amount of renewable energy we generate in this country 13 time over use , I believe , less than 3 % of the UK ' s land , and none of the high - grade agricultural land — order . I call the Minister . that be a helpful contribution , and I thank the hon . Lady for it . even if we reach our solar target by 2030 , it be a very small amount of land that would be use for what be an important part of our energy infrastructure . a number of other point be make in this debate that underline how complex some of these decision be go to be , but also the huge opportunity we have . a number of member speak about the industrial opportunity that will come from this green transition , and a number offer up example from their own constituency relate to the role of skill , which be go to be so important . the sense that this be the mission that we need to be on together as a country be also important , because it will take all of we — with all of our expertise , and the challenge that come from the opposition — to make the right decision so that we can have a long - term plan that deliver the net zero future that we need . before sum up , I will return to some of the maiden speech . in particular , take advantage of be at the Dispatch Box , I want to highlight my colleague from Scotland who have be return to this Parliament , who make some fantastic speech . it be brilliant to hear my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) speak in Gaelic during his contribution , which be fantastic . I be disappointed that more of our Lobby colleague be not in the Chamber to hear he do that , but I be sure they will catch up . the point he make about the importance of involve community in this future be also make by a number of hon . member . that need to take two part : it need to be consent and consultation , but it also need to be a recognition of what the reward for those community should be . there be a number of option , because not all community be align on what they think that reward should look like , but it be go to be a critical part go forward . there be a number of quote that I will look up in Hansard . my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar talk about be season with salt , which be wonderful . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) speak about see the world through the long lens : have the discipline to look at some of these difficult , challenge public priority and recognise that some of the benefit of what we be do now will not be see in the next five or 10 year , but it be none the less important to start the work , be something that we in this place can all bear in mind . to conclude , since the summer recess be fast approach , I could not help but notice that as a result of all the maiden speech , we have produce something of our own staycation guide as we have go around the House . very quickly , I will just mention my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , the lido and the safari ; the Turner art gallery in East Thanet ; Barra , the jewel of the Hebrides with its whisky and salmon in Na h - Eileanan an Iar ; the Norman castle in Waveney Valley ; Bellahouston park in Glasgow South West , which I know well ; one of Becket ' s miracle — fantastic ; I be go to see the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) about that , and also because I now know that she be the one in the Chamber with sweetie , which be very helpful — and the open championship in Central Ayrshire . my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) have the privilege of represent the constituency that I be bear in , and he make a wonderful speech today . I will also mention Aldo ' s chippy in Bathgate , Dumbarton castle in West Dunbartonshire , and the delight of be burn as an effigy in Lewes . I thank the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) for conclude the debate . with the 15 second that I have leave , I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have participate in the debate . I hope that this be the first of many for they , and that there continue to be a genuine exchange of idea across the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of make Britain a clean energy superpower . Pharmacy Provision : Hampton Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) may I start by congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election ? it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair . I also congratulate the Minister on his appointment . we have work closely together in recent year in the all - party parliamentary group on kinship care , so I have no doubt that he will do an excellent job . I suspect that young Lyle be very proud of his granddad right now . I be delighted to have secure this Adjournment debate . you might be surprised to learn , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this be the first I have manage to secure since my election in 2019 , so I want to use this exciting opportunity to bring to the Minister ' s attention the impact of pharmacy closure on the local community in the Hampton area of my constituency , as well as the immense financial challenge face community pharmacy right across England . I will also raise concern about the impenetrable bureaucratic process , which need overhaul , in new pharmacy licence application and pharmacy closure . let I set the scene . last autumn , two Boots pharmacy in the Hampton area be close . one of those pharmacy be in the Hampton North ward , one of three ward of relative deprivation in the London borough of Richmond upon Thames . the west of the ward be within the 20 % most deprive area of the country ; it be densely populate with a significant amount of social housing . as a result of that closure in Tangley Park , the entire ward be now without a community pharmacy . Hampton North be poorly serve by public transport : there be no station , and the two bus route serve the area be notoriously unreliable . the near pharmacy be now a mile away on foot , a distance that be difficult to cover for the elderly and those with mobility issue . it be certainly more than a 20 - minute walk away , which be the measure that previous Ministers like to use to highlight pharmacy accessibility . predictably , those closure have put a lot of pressure on the near remain pharmacy , which face queue and stock issue . again , that be not exactly convenient or practical for elderly and vulnerable patient . at this point , I pay tribute to Mike Derry and Healthwatch Richmond for their brilliant work champion local patient and give they a voice . Healthwatch undertake a survey of some 700 resident in the Hampton area at the start of the year to demonstrate the impact of the closure . one person say : " I have go without medication as I can ' t stand very long . there be queue — I have wait over half an hour . " Healthwatch England highlight the plight of 87 - year - old Gill . she use to just about be able to get across the road from her house to the Tangley Park pharmacy . now the near pharmacy be over a mile away , and Gill , who do not drive , can not access that service because of the distance that she would have to walk to get there . she even pay the near pharmacy to deliver her medicine to her home each month , but in the eight month since she purchase the delivery service , it have show up only twice . her carer have to travel to collect the medication in person for she . Hampton be not unusual in lose pharmacy provision . I be sure that the Minister be aware of the crisis face the community pharmacy sector . datum from the Community Chemists ' Association show that there have be a net loss of over 1 , 200 pharmacy — 1402 closure and only 179 opening — since 2015 . More than a third of those loss have be in the most deprived area of the country . the National Pharmacy Association report that the number of pharmacy that have close so far this calendar year — the equivalent of 10 pharmacy a week — be nearly 50 % high compare with the same point in 2023 . as well as independent pharmacy , big chain such as Lloyds Pharmacy and Boots have significantly accelerate closure number over the past 18 month . a big driver of these closure be a significant real - term reduction in funding for pharmacy ; that funding have drop by around 30 % since 2015 . be my hon . friend aware of the issue of overwhelmed surgery refer increase number of patient to local pharmacist ? I have see it in my Lewes constituency . do she agree that this will only contribute far to closure ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I congratulate he on his excellent maiden speech . I completely agree with he . we want doctor to use community pharmacy more to alleviate the pressure on other part of the health service , but frankly , if the pharmacy be not there , the remain one will be overwhelmed . I talk to local GPs in the Hampton area follow these closure , and they be desperate to see more provision . they think about try to set up their own community pharmacy provision , but they just could not make the number add up because of the funding shortfall . the Company Chemists ' Association estimate an average funding shortfall of £ 67 , 000 per pharmacy . that be base on an analysis of datum publish by the Department of Health and Social Care in a write parliamentary answer at the beginning of last year . many pharmacist be leave out of pocket , as they be reimburse less for a number of medication than the price they pay , and there be story of some use credit card and overdraft to purchase medication . these funding pressure be couple with major workforce challenge . when I meet boot follow the news that it be close two branch in Hampton , it cite a lack of pharmacist as a major reason for close some 300 pharmacy across the UK , although commercial pressure be clearly the main driver . layer on top of these issue be regular medicine supply shortage , which add more work and create more stress for already overstretch pharmacist . Community Pharmacy England report last year that 92 % of pharmacy be have to manage supply issue daily . it be a perfect storm for community pharmacy at a time when we need preventive healthcare and self - care more than ever . the potential of community pharmacy to improve patient health and reduce the pressure on NHS hospital and GPs be immense , yet they be close in their hundred every year . we should be rely on pharmacy even more to keep the nation healthy . the previous Conservative Government ' s announcement of the Pharmacy First initiative be very welcome in its ambition , but if pharmacy be not even fund for the basic right now , with big gap in provision open up all over the country , it be hard to see how Pharmacy First ' s ambition will be achieve . the liberal Democrats would like to see the Government building on the Pharmacy First principle and give pharmacist more prescribing right and public health responsibility . as in so many area of public health , the " invest to save " argument be compelling , and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s comment on what the new Labour Government will do on funding to enable community pharmacy to not just survive , but thrive and grow as an essential part of our primary care infrastructure . have address the cause of these closure , I will spend some time explore the process involve in local community be inform of pharmacy closure , and their input , or lack thereof , in they , as well as discuss the complete lack of transparency or accountability in relation to application for new pharmacy licence . for starter , only those organisation designate as " interested party " in the regulation be inform of new application , and only their feedback have to be take into account . anyone else who be interested , such as I as a local MP , need to make a freedom of information request , unless someone in the local health community pass on the information . my view , and the view of other people in the community , can be ignore . to describe the bureaucratic process that sit around new application as byzantine would be generous . I hope the Minister , Madam Deputy Speaker and other hon . member will bear with I while I try to explain what happen in Hampton . we be part of the South West London Integrated Care Board , but NHS England have delegate the pharmacy market entry function for the whole of London to the North East London ICB , which be on completely the opposite side of the city . official have no local knowledge of our area , no understanding of local transport link and no relationship with the local health system . let I start with the closure . the Minister will be aware of the statutory three - month notice period for pharmacy closure ; last August , Boots would have have to give NHS England three month ' notice of its intention in Hampton . that information be not pass by NHSE to the Richmond health and wellbeing board . I find that utterly staggering . the first that local councillor , the local health community in the area and I as the MP know about the plan closure be when boot place sign in its window to inform customer , and concerned constituent start to contact I about the likely impact of the closure . at the end of August 2023 , while this be go on and we be all in the dark , the local health and wellbeing board publish a pharmaceutical need assessment , but it be inaccurate and fail to identify an imminent future gap in need in the Hampton North area because it have not be notify of the closure . the Tangley Park Boots subsequently close in late October . the Priory Road Boots , which be directly opposite a busy gp surgery , close in early November . in November , an application be receive for a new independent pharmacy licence on the Tangley Park Boots site . once again , the local health and wellbeing board be not notify of the application — this time , for two whole month . during this period of complete silence , the health and wellbeing board issue a supplementary statement to the local pharmaceutical need assessment , which identify the gap in Hampton . however , because the application for a new pharmacy be make in November , and it refer to the original need assessment that be make before the supplementary statement be publish , it be reject , even though the application itself identify the gap , which be officially make clear in the supplementary statement subsequently publish in December . not only that , but it take the North East London ICB a full eight month to issue the rejection ; tht happen early this month , even though the decision use evidence receive in December to justify the rejection . Madam Deputy Speaker , if you and other hon . member be still manage to follow this sorry story , I hope you will agree that this decision be utterly perverse . it be also utterly unreasonable that timely application to open pharmacy in response to multiple closure should be inherently prevent in this way . the delay in share information with the local health and wellbeing board and the delay in decision making be unforgivable . during the lengthy delay , the local authority receive a planning application to change the Tangley Park pharmacy site into a fast food outlet . thankfully , that be reject early this month after representation from the public health team and councillor , but I be sure the public health Minister will agree that it would be unfortunate , to put it mildly , if a pharmacy be replace with a fast food outlet . one local official tell I yesterday that the system architecture be too complicated , and that there be a need for clear responsibility and accountability . amen to that , I say . Healthwatch Richmond have demand answer from the North East London ICB , but it have receive a frankly woeful response that do not address the substantive question of why the application be so badly handle . the response pass the buck and blame regulation . to be clear , Healthwatch and I be not qualified to comment on the merit of an application ; what we be do be challenge the unfathomable process . I say to the Minister that the huge funding challenge face community pharmacy be press . I appreciate that they may be extremely difficult for he to address , give that the Chancellor have an iron fist as far as any additional public spending be concern , but the Minister must wage a campaign to improve the funding situation . it make financial sense . we will not grow the economy without improve the nation ' s health . in that campaign , he will have cros - party support from member on the Opposition Benches . revisit the regulation and how NHS England be implement they will cost next to nothing . there should be proper consultation with and involvement from the local community on closure notice , and change in the process for new licence could ensure that we can quickly plug pharmacy gap when they open up in area such as Hampton . crucially , those power need to be delegate to the local ICB , with full involvement from the local health and wellbeing board . they know their community and their geography good — trust they . finally , if the Minister could step in on the specific issue in my constituency — the application that have be reject and be go NHS Resolution on appeal — simply to ensure a common - sense approach , the resident of Hampton North and I would be very grateful . we desperately need a new pharmacy for our community . I look forward to his response . I call the Minister . may I start by welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I congratulate you on your election early this week . I also congratulate the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) on secure a debate that be absolutely crucial , not just give the specific of the case in her constituency , but for the precedent that it set as we plan community pharmacy provision across England . I assure she that although Lyle miss out on his week in London for Whitsun half - term , because somebody call a general election , he be on his way to London as I speak , with Allison , so that we can do London as tourist this weekend . I be respond on behalf of the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , who lead in this area . I start by pay tribute to pharmacist . it be a credit to they that survey show that nine in 10 people who visit pharmacy feel positive about their experience . colleague appreciate how accessible pharmacy in town and village across our country be , but for too long , government have fail to recognise their essential role in safeguard the nation ' s health , not least in my constituency of Gorton and Denton . this government know that people who work in pharmacy be highly train specialist , and we be committed to help pharmacist and pharmacy technician reach their full potential . pharmacy already provide vital advice on prescription , over - the - counter medicine and minor ailment , but they do not just dispense medicine and proffer advice , important though that be ; they must do much more than that . many already offer blood - pressure check , flu and covid - 19 vaccination , contraception consultation and treatment for the seven condition cover by the Pharmacy First service . I support Pharmacy First when I be in opposition , as I think the hon . Lady do , and my party pledge to build on the programme by make prescribe an integral part of the service deliver by community pharmacy . for that reason , in the next two year , we will ensure that every newly qualified pharmacist have a prescribing qualification , while we train up the exist workforce . this year , NHS England be work closely with all integrate care board on pilot to test how prescribing can work in community pharmacy , because like the hon . Lady , we want pharmacy deliver service that help patient to access advice , prevention and treatment more easily ; service that ease the pressure on general practice and in other area in the NHS ; and service that unlock the knowledge and expertise that our pharmacist have to offer . this government take the view that pharmacy can and should play an even great role in provide healthcare on the high street . that be why we stand on a manifesto that promise to shift resource to primary care and to community service over time . community pharmacy will play an important part in move our health service from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention . but we have only be in office for three week ; this can not happen overnight , and colleague have be absolutely right to raise concern with Ministers about the closure of pharmacy . as we speak , well over 10 , 000 pharmacy in England be dispense medicine , offer advice and deliver care , and despite closure , access to pharmacy remain good across most of the country . four out of five people live within a 20 - minute walk of their local pharmacy , but as we have hear in this really important debate , that be not the case everywhere in the country . I know , have listen to the hon . Lady , that in Twickenham it be high than four in five , but in other part of the country it be below one in two . in the most deprived part of England there be almost twice as many pharmacy — a good thing — than in the least deprived , but we need well access across the country . to take the example of my own constituency , where access to pharmacy be fairly good , almost the entire population be within a 20 - minute walk from a pharmacy . however , in certain rural area , and in a grow number of urban area because of the closure programme , that be not the case . in those rural area , there be dispense doctor who can supply medicine to patient , and patient across the country can access around 400 distance - sell pharmacy that deliver medicine to patient ' home free of charge . it be true that experience vary depend on where people live , but I be aware of the specific problem in Hampton follow the closure of the two Boots pharmacy that she describe . on the point about the 20 - minute walk and the four in five statistic , do the Minister recognise that a 20 - minute walk for I or he be actually much long for an elderly person or somebody with multiple health condition or mobility issue ? we have to work out what measure we be use . yes , the Twickenham constituency may have many pharmacy , but we must look at that highly localise level . that be why we need the local authority and local health board to be involve , because actually in Hampton , as a community , the transport link be terrible . I completely understand the case the hon . Lady be make . I ask she please to understand that she be push on a bit of an open door . it be a completely different subject , but I have have exactly the same argument about bank closure in my constituency . I be tell that as long as the near bank branch be half an hour away by public transport , that be acceptable . unfortunately , computer say no when it be two bus that do not meet up in between . I agree with she that there be complexity around draw up arbitrary limit , but generally access to pharmacy be good . we need to maximise the use of the pharmacy network so that we get more pharmacist come in . I welcome the Government ' s support for strengthen the pharmacy sector . the Minister talk about the workforce . resident in my constituency have raise concern about the pressure on pharmacist to take on more and more service that might traditionally have be provide by primary care . what assurance can he give I that he will make sure that the workforce plan for pharmacist be robust enough to cope with the extra demand ? we be very committed , as I hope the hon . Lady know , to the workforce plan be as robust as it can be , so we do not just get the pharmacist of the future but the doctor , nurse , healthcare worker and so on too . on the journey to a national health service that be much more community focused and much more align to prevention rather than to cure sickness — we want to prevent people from become ill in the first place — we must ensure that at its heart be how we can deliver medicine and treatment close to where people live . have well - train capability in the pharmacy sector to do that be very much a priority for this Government . return to the issue of the two Boots closure in Hampton , the Minister for Care be aware of the closure . he ask I to communicate to the hon . Lady the fact that he will keep a very close eye on what be happen on the ground in her area . on the hon . Lady ' s specific point about bureaucracy , I assure she that the regulatory framework be always under review , and as a new Government we be keen to make improvement wherever we can . I be sure that my official will have hear the case that she have make . after the hon . Lady kindly reach out to I prior to the debate , I instruct official to ask her ICB to consider her concern again . I hear that she have have a reply that be not particularly helpful . again , I hope that her ICB be watch this debate , and listen to her case and to I as the Minister say from the Dispatch Box that we take these issue seriously . good access to pharmacy service be important to her constituent and to the constituent of Members right across the House . we need to make sure that the network be protect and enhance . on funding , NHS England have commission an economic analysis of the cost of provide pharmaceutical service . that work be happen right now with the pharmacy sector and we look forward to see the outcome . previous government dither and delay on find a sustainable and long - term solution . the consultation around this year ' s funding and contractual arrangement with Community Pharmacy England do not make it over the line before the election be call , so we as Ministers be look at that as a matter of urgency . all that we be speak of today be against the backdrop of the most challenging circumstance since the second world war . that be why the Chancellor be carry out an urgent assessment of our spending inheritance and will be present the result to Parliament before the summer recess , so that the finding can inform every spending decision we make . in the meantime , I be afraid that I can not update the House on this year ' s arrangement . I understand that that will be frustrating to the hon . Lady , but the Prime Minister have ask I and every Minister of this Government to be honest and open about the state of the nation ' s finance . I intend to keep that promise , but I look forward to work with pharmacy stakeholder to discuss not just how we solve these problem , but how we seize the opportunity for transformation in the sector , and how we deliver health and social care in the community , close to where people need it , provide the new , innovative treatment from pharmacy where that be appropriate . this government will always put patient before politic . in the spirit of the friendship that we have develop over the year , particularly over the kinship issue , I look forward to work with the hon . Lady on this and other health - relate issue , and on make our country a well , fair and more equal place for her constituent and mine , with well access to health service , include community pharmacy . I hope to work with she in the year to come , and let we hope that we can improve the pharmacy service for Hampton and other part of England . question put and agree to . House adjourn .