business before QUESTIONS Contingencies Fund Account 2023 - 24 Ordered , that there be lay before the House an Account of the Contingencies Fund 2023 - 24 , show : ( 1 ) a statement of Financial Position ( 2 ) a statement of cash flow ( 3 ) note to the Accounts ; together with the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General thereon . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) speaker ' s statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to remind hon . member of what I say last week follow the King ' s Speech . the language we use in the Chamber , and the way we behave towards each other , should reflect the principle that good temper and moderation be the hallmark of parliamentary language and behaviour . I be determined that member in all part of the House should be treat with courtesy and respect in this Chamber . I remind the House that it be entirely at the discretion of the hon . member who have the Floor to choose whether to give way . and once it be clear that the Member do not wish to give way , colleague should not persist in ask they to do so . I should also like to remind member about the church service tomorrow to mark the start of the new Parliament . you will all have receive information about it and I look forward to see those of you who be able to attend . NATO and European Political Community Meetings before I start my statement , I would like to pay a short tribute to President Biden , a man who , during five decade of service , never lose touch with the concern of work people and always put his country first . a true friend of the Labour movement , his presidency will leave a legacy that extend far beyond America , to freedom and security on this continent — most of all , of course , in our steadfast resolve to stand by the people of Ukraine . he leave the NATO alliance strong than it have be for decade . with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on my recent discussion with leader around the world , include at the NATO summit and at the meeting of the European Political Community last week at Blenheim Palace , the big european summit in the UK since the war . Mr Speaker , the House know the significance of Blenheim Palace , the birthplace of Winston Churchill — the man who steer the march of european history towards democracy and the rule of law . it be a share sacrifice for freedom — the blood bond of 1945 . at both summit , we reaffirm our commitment to that bond of security and freedom , as I be sure we do in this House today . NATO be the guarantor of those value , and that be more important than ever , because , today in Europe , innocent life be once again be tear apart . two week ago today there be an attack on a child ' s hospital in Kyiv — child with cancer the target of russian brutality . Russia ' s malign activity be not confine to Ukraine . in the Western Balkans , in Moldova and in Georgia , it be sow instability . and let we not forget that it have target people on our street and attempt to undermine our democracy . in the first day of this government , I have take a message to our friend and ally of endure and unwavering commitment to the NATO alliance , to Ukraine and to the collective security of our country , our continent and our ally around the world . that message be just as relevant at the epc last week . may I take this opportunity to thank the Leader of the Opposition , who bring that event to our shore in the first place ? at these meeting , I take a practical view of how the UK can meet this moment , drive not by ideology but by what be good for our country . that include reset our relationship with the European Union , because on these Benches we believe that the UK and the EU , work together as sovereign partner , be a powerful force for good across our continent . that have be my message throughout the many conversation that I have have with leader in recent day , because country want to work with Britain — of course they do . they welcome renew british leadership on security , on illegal migration and on global challenge such as climate change . our voice belong in the room , centre stage , fight for the national interest . my conversation have focus on issue on which the british people want action , so I would like to update the House on my discussion in three specific area . the first be european security . in Washington , I tell NATO ally that the generational threat from Russia demand a generational response . that be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will set out a clear path to spend 2 . 5 % of our gdp on defence . it be also why I launch a strategic defence review , lead by the former NATO Secretary - General Lord Robertson , to strengthen our armed force and keep our nation safe . I also take the opportunity at the NATO summit to confirm that we will deliver £ 3 billion - worth of military aid to Ukraine each year for as long as it take . and together we confirm Ukraine ' s irreversible path to full NATO membership , because it be clear to I that NATO will be strong with Ukraine as a member — something I reiterate to President Zelensky in person in Downing Street on Friday . secondly , I want to turn to the middle east , because that region be at a moment of grave danger and fragility . I have speak to leader in the region and ally around the world about our collective response . how can we deal with the malign influence of Iran , address its nuclear programme , manage the threat from the Houthis , ease tension on Israel ' s northern border , and work with all partner to uphold regional security ? fundamental to that , of course , be the conflict in Gaza . I have speak to the leader of Israel and the Palestinian Authority . I have be clear that I fully support Israel ' s right to security and the desperate need to see the hostage return . I have also be clear that the situation in Gaza be intolerable , and that the world will not look away as innocent civilian , include woman and child , continue to face death , disease and displacement . Mr Speaker , it can not go on . we need an immediate ceasefire . hostage out , aid in ; a huge scale - up of humanitarian assistance . that be the policy of this Government , and an immediate ceasefire be the only way to achieve it , so we will do all we can in pursuit of these goal . that be why , as one of the first action take by this government , we have restart british funding to the UN Relief and Works Agency , to deliver that crucial humanitarian support . we receive the International Court of Justice opinion on Friday and will consider it carefully before respond , but let I say that we have always be oppose to the expansion of illegal settlement and we call on all side to recommit to stability , peace , normalisation and the two - state solution : a recognise palestinian state — the right of the palestinian people — alongside a safe and secure Israel . thirdly , I want to turn to illegal migration . this issue have now become a crisis , and in order to tackle it we must reach out a hand to our european friend . we start that work at the EPC , agree new arrangement with Slovenia and Slovakia , deepen co - operation across Europe for our new border security command , and increase the UK presence at Europol in the Hague , to play our full part in the European Migrant Smuggling Centre . the crisis we face be the fault of gang — no question — but to stop illegal migration we must also recognise the root cause : conflict , climate change and extreme poverty . so I have announce £ 84 million of new funding for project across Africa and the middle east , to provide humanitarian and health support , skill training , and access to education , because the decision that people take to leave their home can not be separate from these wide issue . we will work with our partner to stamp out this vile trade wherever it exist and focus on the hard yard of law enforcement with solution that will actually deliver result . I have see that in action , tackle counter - terrorism as Director of Public Prosecutions , and we can do the same on illegal migration . but let I be clear : there be no need to withdraw from the european convention on human right . that be not consistent with the value of that blood bond , so we will not withdraw — not now , not ever . the basic fact be that the priority of the british people do require we to work across border with our partner , and a Government of service at home require a Government of strength abroad . that be our role . it have always be our role . Britain belong on the world stage . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement and join he in praise President Biden for his long career of public service both at home and abroad . work together , we take our AUKUS partnership to the next level , support Israel after the terrible event of 7 October , defend our country from the Houthi threat and lead global effort to support Ukraine as it resist Russia ' s assault . on a personal level , it be a pleasure to work with he to strengthen the partnership between our two country , and I wish he well . as the Prime Minister indicate , the world be increasingly uncertain — the most dangerous it have be since the end of the cold war . Russia continue its illegal and brutal invasion of Ukraine . Iran continue with its regionally destabilising behaviour . both Iran and North Korea be supply russian force in Ukraine as we speak , and China be adopt a more aggressive stance in the South China sea and the Taiwan strait . together , that axis of authoritarian state be increasingly work together to undermine democracy and reshape the world order . in those circumstance , our alliance take on ever - great importance . I commend the Prime Minister on his work with our close ally at both the NATO summit in Washington and the European Political Community meeting at Blenheim . across this House we build a strong consensus on foreign policy in the last Parliament , which have stand our country in good stead in this transition . our ally , particularly Ukraine , know that although our Government have change , Britain remain an active , involved and reliable partner . I be glad that the Prime Minister also share our view of the value of the EPC community as a forum . I be pleased by and welcome the fact that he use the summit to discuss illegal migration , because it be one of the most pressing problem face our entire continent . when it come to illegal migration , we all face the same fundamental question : how to deal with people who come to our country illegally while respect our international obligation . of course , it be not feasible or right to return Afghans to the Taliban , Syrians to Assad or Iranians to the ayatollah , but nor can our country accommodate everyone who would like to leave Afghanistan , Syria or Iran and come here . I be pleased to hear the Prime Minister say that he be a pragmatist and that he would look at what work when it come to square that circle . I urge he , in his conversation with other european leader , to keep the option of further third - country migration partnership on the table , as other country have be discuss . I know the Prime Minister be also interested in pursue a security and defence co - operation pact with the European Union , and here I just urge he to be alert to the trade - off involve . I hope he can reassure the House that any close co - operation with the EU will not adversely affect the technological and procurement aspect of our other alliance such as AUKUS . of course we be a pillar of european security , as our leadership on Ukraine have show , but we also have alliance and interest that extend beyond the european continent . turn to the NATO summit , it be good to see the alliance reaffirm its commitment to Ukraine , with the UK at the heart of that leadership . I hope the Prime Minister will keep the House update on how the new unit to co - ordinate our collective support to Ukraine will indeed lead to an increase in vital support . I urge the Prime Minister to continue stress to our ally that now be the moment to increase , not to pare down , our backing for Ukraine , as the UK have continue to lead in do . in the 75 year of its existence , NATO have establish itself as the most successful defensive alliance in history . the good way to strengthen the alliance be for its non - american member to do more , to show that we do not expect the Americans to bear every burden , and I welcome the Prime Minister ' s indication that the Chancellor will soon set out a clear path to invest 2 . 5 % of gdp in our armed force — I hope by 2030 . that would both show the Americans that the other member of the alliance be serious about boost our own capability , and show President Putin and our adversary that we be serious about defend our border and ally from Russian or any other aggression . the Prime Minister also speak about the situation in the middle east . we all want to see progress towards a two - state solution where Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side in peace , prosperity and security . however , as we make progress towards that goal , our friend and ally Israel must have the right to defend itself against the threat that it be face — a threat demonstrate by the drone strike on Tel Aviv at the end of last week by the Iranian - align Houthi rebel . in conclusion , I thank the Prime Minister for come to update the House today . I can assure he that we on the Opposition Benches will work with he on these question of foreign policy and national security . we will ask question , probe and push for answer — that be our duty as the official Opposition — but we will always act in the national interest and work constructively with he to ensure the security of our country . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his welcome comment in relation to President Biden , which I be sure will be well receive , and for what he say about the consensus on foreign policy in relation to NATO and the EPC . that be important , and I be glad that we have manage to get that consensus over recent year , because we be in a more volatile world , and the world be look in to see unity in the United Kingdom , particularly in relation to Ukraine . I have commend the role of the previous Government in relation to Ukraine , and I do so again . I take the deliberate decision when I be Leader of the Opposition not to depart on Ukraine , because I take , and continue to take , the view that the only winner in that circumstance be Putin , who want to see division . it be very important for Ukraine to see that continue unity across this House . we will of course work with other . in relation to the point make by the Prime Minister — [ interruption . ] old habit die hard . on the point make by the Leader of the Opposition about security and co - operation with our EU ally , I do believe that be to our mutual benefit , but I can assure he and the House that it do not cut across , or come at the cost of , other alliance . we be fully commit to AUKUS — as I make clear in opposition , and I take this early opportunity to affirm it in government — because it be an area on which there be an important consistency across the House . in relation to the conflict in Gaza , the more that we in this House can be unite , the well . it be an issue of great complexity , but the approach that have be show be the right one , and we take it forward in that spirit . I congratulate the Prime Minister on his fly start on the world stage , and on his determination to build not simply a rule - base order , but a right - base order root in what Churchill call the great charter and we call the european convention on human right . we want its freedom and liberty to be enjoy by the people of Ukraine , but that will take victory over Russia . it will need more than courage ; it will need resource . do he discuss with international colleague the need not simply to freeze russian asset , but to seize and put they to work in defeat once and for all the tyranny of President Putin ? I thank my right hon . friend for that question on the centrality of the Ukraine issue . yes , of course , that require resource and more pressure in relation to sanction , but it also require resolve . a key issue come out of the NATO council in Washington be the real sense , particularly in relation to Ukraine , of a big NATO — with more country than ever at the council — a strong NATO , and a unity of resolve in stand up to russian aggression , particularly in Ukraine . resource and sanction be central to the agenda there . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of the statement . close co - operation with our european neighbour be absolutely essential , whether on Russia ' s illegal war against Ukraine or on tackle the criminal gang responsible for the small - boat crisis , and I welcome the new Government ' s change in approach . I also welcome their support for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . clearly , we need to put an end to the humanitarian devastation there , get the hostage home , and open the door to a two - state solution . uphold international law be also crucial . to that end , I hope the Government will respect last week ' s ruling of the ICJ when they consider it . on the NATO summit , 70 year on from the foundation of NATO , the alliance have never be more relevant . we support the NATO summit pledge of long - term security assistance for Ukraine , as well as increase support now to ensure she can resist Russia ' s attack and liberate her territory . I be pleased that , in this new Parliament , this House will continue to stand unite behind the brave Ukrainians oppose Russia ' s illegal war , just as we have do together in recent year . however , I hope member of this House will not be complacent about the impact that the upcoming US election could have , not just on the security of the UK and our ally , but on the security of Ukraine . we must hope that the leadership of President Biden continue with his successor — I echo the Prime Minister ' s tribute to President Biden — but whatever happen in the US , part of the answer be for the UK and Europe to increase defence spending . the previous Conservative Government have leave a legacy of the small Army since the age of Napoleon and play fast and loose with public money , make our share ambition to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence a much more complicated route . we look forward to the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s plan . I hope this Government will start by reverse the plan cut to the Army of 10 , 000 troop . that be a vital first step , so will the Prime Minister reassure the House and the country that it will be a priority within the recently launch strategic defence review ? we also urge the Government to move far and fast in take step to seize frozen russian asset , of which there be £ 20 billion - worth on our shore and the same amount on the continent . I hope the Prime Minister recognise that we have an opportunity to lead within Europe on this vital issue : if the US can not , Europe must . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise those three issue . on the international court , we respect the independence of the Court and international law — let I be very clear about that . I will not get tempt by question about the US election later this year , save to say that it will obviously be for the american people to decide who they want as their President , and as member would expect , we will work with whoever be the President after they have make their choice . I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the low number of troop , which will be look at in the strategic defence review that we be carry out into threat , capability and resource . it be incredibly pleasing to see the Prime Minister both at NATO and welcome leader from across our continent to Blenheim palace , at a historic moment for a reset with Europe after the disastrous legacy that the depart Government leave behind . do the subject of youth mobility for student and suchlike arise , and could his Government look into repair it for its soft power , cultural exchange and growth - boost property that have be so value , as we be now in a post - Erasmus era ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . the reset with our european ally be well receive , and there be clearly an appetite to work in a different and well way with the UK , which I think will stand we in good stead as we go forward . we do have discussion about a close relationship with our EU ally , but I make it very clear from the outset — as I have do in opposition — that that do not mean rejoin the EU , it do not mean go back into the structure of the EU , and it do not mean freedom of movement . I take the early opportunity to make that clear to our european ally so that we can move forward progressively , but with the right framework in mind . may I congratulate the Prime Minister on his election victory , and particularly on the very strong commitment he give at the beginning of his campaign to the maintenance of the strategic Trident nuclear deterrent in the future ? do he agree that , if there have exist in 1914 or in 1939 an organisation like NATO that commit America to the protection from day one of country such as Belgium in the one case or Poland in the other , those two terrible conflict might well never have break out ? do he therefore share my concern that the virus of isolationism be again on the move in certain part of the american political spectrum ? I thank the right hon . member for that question . first , I be able to make clear our unshakeable commitment to the nuclear deterrent , something I do in opposition . I have be able to make that absolutely clear as Prime Minister , and it be very important that I do so from the outset . in relation to what may have happen in the past , I will not speculate , but I believe that NATO be the most successful alliance the world have ever know , and that it be as need now as it be when it be found . the then Labour Government be very proud to be a founder member of NATO , and it be very important for I to reaffirm our unshakeable support for NATO . the world be a more volatile place , the challenge be great now than they have be for many year , and I think that NATO be as need now and as relevant now as it have ever be in its history . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Prime Minister on the leadership he show not just at NATO , but at the European Political Community . work together and collaborate be important , not least in the unstable world that we be in . could he set out what discussion he have about the EU - UK trade and co - operation agreement in the light of its renegotiation deadline next year ? I be able to have early discussion about the EU - UK trade arrangement of a preliminary sort . there be an appetite for that discussion — no one pretend that it be an easy discussion — and I be pleased to have appoint a Minister , the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office , who will take responsibility for that important work . it do not involve rejoin the EU ; it do involve reset and improve the relationship we have with our EU ally . can I , first , congratulate the Prime Minister on his election win , and wish he the very good in his new role ? build on the last question , the EPC summit seem very positive . how do he see use this political locus to get the UK in the good possible position for the renegotiation of the TCA in 2026 ? I thank the right hon . member for his comment . there be an appetite now for a different discussion about our future relation with the EU — whether that be trade , education and research , or security co - operation . particularly in the light of what have happen in Ukraine , there be a shared sense that there be room for close work and close tie there . they be the three main area . it be at the very early stage , but the reset be well receive by many european ally , and I be pleased to have that early opportunity to set out our case . the Prime Minister ' s statement will be warmly welcome by the people of Rochdale , particularly the ukrainian community , which have flourish in our town for nearly 80 year . so can I pass on to he a direct message from Olga Kurtianyk , who be the chair of the rochdale branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain , who tell I yesterday that she be very grateful for the Prime Minister ' s continued support for President Zelensky in the fight against the illegal war that Putin have wage ? I be very pleased to hear that , and to be able to make that clear commitment . but I want to emphasise that this be the continuation of the work of the previous Government , which we fully support before and fully support now . what be also important for our community , and certainly important for the international community , be to see the unity that we have be able to maintain here in this Chamber . the world watch in relation to our unity and it be important therefore that we maintain it as we go forward . may I also add my personal congratulation to the Prime Minister on his election win ? the international rule - base system be the cornerstone of peace and security . the Prime Minister talk of a ceasefire in Gaza and the application of the rule of law . what measure be he willing to take to make sure that be implement ? furthermore , be outside the EU make we less safe . the populist who want we to turn away from the EU and towards Trump - style isolationism be play straight into Putin ' s hand , so what be we do to get close to the EU ? in relation to a ceasefire , obviously talk be under way at quite an advanced stage and we have already urge all side in the international discussion that I have have to move forward on a ceasefire , because without a ceasefire it be very difficult to envisage the circumstance in which further hostage can come out safely and aid can go in at the scale that be desperately need . also , a ceasefire can be a foot in the door for the beginning of a process , however remote it may seem at the moment , to a two - state solution . in relation to the EU , we have a share interest in safety and security with our EU ally and that be very much the topic of discussion we have at the EPC summit last week . for my constituent in Makerfield , restore control over our border be a key issue of concern . it have become a matter of public trust . do the Prime Minister agree that the new border security command be an opportunity to show how the UK can play a lead role in tackle criminal smuggler gang ? yes I do , and the command be base on the work I do as Director of Public Prosecutions , work with law enforcement and security and intelligence sharing with our ally — in the case I be work on to deal with counter - terrorism . I have never accept the argument that the only gang that apparently can not be take down use the same technique be the gang run this vile trade . there be real interest in what we be say at the EPC summit last week and an understanding that , if we share intelligence , datum , strategy and approach , we can all do more to bring down these vile gang . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s reiteration that the UK remain the strong supporter of Ukraine against russian aggression , but what support can we also give to another former soviet state , Armenia , both in resolve its conflict with Azerbaijan , and in pursue its ambition to move close to NATO and the European Union in the face of russian threat and intimidation ? I be grateful for that question . this come up in the discussion last Thursday , as would have be expect , with a joint resolve to provide the support and framework need for peace and security across the entire region . again , there be a share intent with our ally to work together on this because it be of such importance . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise it . I be one of 12 newly elect member on this side of the House who have serve in the armed force , and in Plymouth so many of my friend and neighbour have serve as well . all of we be deeply concerned by the ongoing illegal invasion and inhumane , increasingly barbaric , tactic Russia be use . will the Prime Minister agree with I that in an uncertain world one thing we can be sure of be that Ukraine have no firm friend than the UK ? yes , I can confirm that and emphasise just how important it be . we have the honour of host President Zelensky at Downing Street on Friday , where I be able to make that clear , and again to take the opportunity to say that we be build on the work of the previous Government , not depart from that work . I think the support of the UK in particular to Ukraine have be lead , important and provide at difficult time , which have often lead to other move in accordance with the move we have make as a country . President Zelensky be grateful for the role we have play in the past and that we continue to play now . my constituent in Sleaford and North Hykeham be very concerned about level of illegal migration , particularly people cross the channel . I be pleased to hear the Prime Minister say that he want to tackle it . he mention two measure : £ 84 million to tackle root cause and the focus , which be arguably already present , from law enforcement . in the last seven day , 1 , 500 people cross the channel . how many of they would he expect to have be deter by the measure he describe ? this be a real problem that we have inherit because not enough attention have be pay to border control in my view . record number have come this year . the measure take by the last Government be patently not work , so we need to address that . that be why we have take early step to set up the border security command . it be also why we have already move more staff into the return unit , so it can get on with the job of actually return those who have no right to be here . one hundred staff have move already in the early day of this Government , but we have to recognise that we also need to address the reason that people move in the first place , which be very much to do with conflict , poverty and climate change . if we ignore those upstream cause , we will never fully get to grip with the problem that be so obvious to so many people in this country . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and I thank he particularly for his commitment to reset our relationship with the European Union . it be regrettable that the deal sign by the opposition when they be in government do real damage to our economy . it put up barrier to trade with the European Union and increase red tape . do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time for a new relationship and to take practical measure , such as the mutual recognition of professional qualification , to increase our alignment with the European Union , so we can help our service and get our economy move again ? I do not think the deal we have be good enough . if we talk to any business that deal with the EU , they complain it be not good enough for they and have make trade hard , not easy , and that be a real problem . we can do well than that . the EPC be an early opportunity for we to reset our relationship and begin progress towards that well relationship , whether that be in relation to trade or defence and security , which be both very important to we . I welcome that the Prime Minister say that there be an appetite for a reset in our relationship with our european neighbour . a core element of collective european security be collective economic security . he know that be outside the single market and the custom union have cost the UK economy almost £ 140 billion . how will he remedy this toxic Tory legacy by continue to refuse even to consider rejoin those economic structure ? I think the relationship can improve . we can have a well relationship , but I do not think we can simply ignore the referendum and go back into the EU . in the discussion I have with our european ally , none of they be urge we to take that course . they be interested in the argument we be make about a well relationship and how that could work in relation to trade , education and security and defence . that be why I want to be clear from the outset about our approach . the Hexham constituency , as the Prime Minister will know , be home to the Otterburn range , which have play a key role in train our armed force for decade . what step will the Prime Minister take to improve the work relationship between our armed force and those of our NATO ally ? our armed force provide huge resource to NATO , particularly in Europe , and across our armed force we be fully commit in almost every respect to NATO . there be huge room for further such work , build on what be clearly work already . the Prime Minister have give we fine word about the importance of our membership of international institution , particularly international court , and I agree with he — it be profoundly in our national interest that we be a member of these organisation — but he will know as well as I that those court be only as good as the action and consequence that flow from their judgment . without action and consequence , their judgment just become hot air . in relation to Israel - Gaza , and in particular the occupation of the west bank , can he please assure we that he be consider hard consequence for the very obvious flagrant breach of international law that be take place daily in that part of the world ? I be grateful for that question , because I believe in international law and I think it be very important that we keep to our commitment on international law . we be know for that as a nation , and it matter to the world . in relation to the court , I respect their independence . obviously , we will have robust discussion about particular action , judgment that they might publish , and decision that they come to , but for those who believe in international law , it be important to be equally clear that we support the independence of the court . without that anchor , we do not have the framework that be so important to we , in term of enforce international law . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and very much echo his word about President Biden . do the Prime Minister agree with I and the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme that the only way to stop illegal migration and the subsequent tragic loss of life be by our United Kingdom work more closely with our european neighbour to smash the gang who run this vile trade ? yes , I do . we have already be able to put further resource into Europol . last Thursday , we have a very live discussion about share datum and intelligence , and about an overarching strategy on prosecution , with our european ally , who be keen to learn more about what we be propose , and how they could play their part with we to smash the gang ; because the gang operate across border , that can be do only in conjunction and collaboration with our EU partner . the last Government spend quite some time engage with isolationist in Washington . they seek to influence conservative think - tank in the US that be listen to by Republicans , such as the Heritage Foundation . I appreciate the Prime Minister ' s point that it be for the american people to decide who govern they later this year , but what more can his Government do to stress to Republicans , and to candidate Trump , that european and american security be indivisible ? on the first part of the question , luckily I do not answer for the last government ; I answer for this Government . we will work with whoever the american people elect as President , but specifically on the question , the special relationship between the UK and the US be forge in the most difficult of circumstance and have endure for many year , and it be important both to the US and to the UK to maintain that special relationship . I have have an early opportunity to make my position clear on this . again , it be a continuation of the position of the last government : that special relationship matter to we , whoever end up be the President of America . do the Prime Minister agree that we need a " NATO first " defence policy in the face of grow russian aggression , as see in Ukraine ? will he join I in pay tribute to the Doncaster Ukrainian Centre in my constituency , which have work tirelessly around the clock to support ukrainian refugee , demonstrate the true community spirit of Doncaster ? let I start by join in that , and make it clear that this work , do in so many community , be really important , in term of the support give and the welcome show to refugee . the point about " NATO first " be important . as I say , we be proud to have be among the found member of NATO , and the review that we have put in place have framework principle , one of which be " NATO first " . that will inform the way in which we conduct the strategic review . why do we continue to limit Ukraine ' s ability to take the fight to Russia ? the approach to capability take by the UK remain the same as it be three week ago — no different decision have be take — and be base on the principle of recognise Ukraine ' s right to self - defence and the parameter of international law . I think that be right , and that be why no new decision have be take . do the Prime Minister agree that the strength and unity of purpose express by our international alliance be mirror and enhance by the solidarity and friendship that the british people have show by accommodate Ukrainians in this country ? would he join I in praise the work of the Rugby Ukrainian community , and assure I that his Government will continue to support such group ? yes on both point . a number of month ago , in Swindon , I be strike by the incredible contribution of ukrainian woman , who be lead workshop on business and success . on the main point about the attitude of british people , it be good to be able to say to President Zelensky that we have just have an election and we have be all over the United Kingdom , and pretty much wherever we go we see the ukrainian flag and people support Ukraine , irrespective of party political difference . there be a real sense that the whole country , as well as the Government and the opposition , support Ukraine and be determined to do whatever they can to stand up to russian aggression . we should be proud of the fact that we see that right across the country . I congratulate the Prime Minister on the office that he have achieve , and thank he for his statement . I be pleased with the decision to remain part of the european convention on human right . in all his meeting with both the EU and NATO , be the issue of global war consider — not just the war in Ukraine and Palestine , but those in Sudan , Congo and Yemen — and the possibility of involve the UN much more in look towards a more peaceful future , rather than continue great expenditure on arm ? I be pleased that the Prime Minister have call for a ceasefire in Gaza , but surely if we be to follow international law we need to go a bit far and call for the withdrawal of israeli occupy force both from Gaza and the west bank , and an end to our complicity by supply arm to Israel . order . may I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that I have a lot more to get in today , and as important as his message be , I need to make other hear ? let I deal with both point . first , conflict resolution do come up , because we have a full discussion about illegal migration — the law enforcement aspect of it , as I have explain , and the root cause of migration , conflict , poverty and climate change be key among they . the prospect of a ceasefire be there . I be urge all party to take that opportunity ; it be an important foot in the door for the political process , which I believe be the only process that will bring about last peace and resolution in the middle east . I congratulate the Prime Minister on a very successful set of meeting last week . do he agree that the shift relationship with the European Union lead by the previous Government have make we economically poor , and undermine small business such as the toy shop in Horsforth in my constituency , which close ? will he ensure that small business and their need and prosperity will be at the heart of any renegotiation deal in two year ' time ? business across the country that deal with Europe feel that the deal that the last Government negotiate be not good enough for they and have make trading much hard . that be why they be encourage we to reset that relationship and get a well deal — well for our country , our business and our economy . our no . 1 mission in government be to grow our economy , so it be very important to see this in that context . I too congratulate the Prime Minister on what be obviously a successful series of meeting last week . he have set out some of his new policy to deal with illegal migration across the channel , and to return illegal migrant from this country . in what sort of timescale could the british people reasonably expect his new policy to start have a real effect ? we have take early measure , because the british people want to see an impact and a difference . they feel very much that in recent year there have be a loss of control of the border . that be a matter of border security and , actually , national security . that be why we have act quickly to begin the step to set up the border security command . it be why we have already begin to put more staff in the return unit , and take a decision on the upstream work need to reduce the likelihood of migration in the first place . they be early step , and I be not go to put an arbitrary date on that , but I do understand the thrust of the question ; this be an area of great importance , where british people want to see a material change in the situation . in Gateshead Central and Whickham , and across the north - east , those who have flee Putin ' s war in Ukraine want to make the most of their time in our community , but above all they want to know that the british people stand with they , so I thank the Prime Minister for his ongoing support for the people of Ukraine , but can he expand far on Ukraine ' s future entry into NATO , which be so critically important ? yes I can , and I be grateful for the opportunity to do so . the North Atlantic Council commit itself to an irreversible path to membership of NATO . that be a material step forward from a year ago and be among the reason President Zelensky say that the council be a success in relation to membership of NATO . that be why I say what I say in my statement . that path be now irreversible , and that be a good thing , welcome across the NATO ally . the level of infiltration by Hamas of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be well document — from UNRWA staff take part in the pure evil that be the 7 October attack , to UNRWA - fund school be use to store weapon and harbour terrorist , and to terror infrastructure be find under UNRWA ' s headquarters in Gaza City . before the Prime Minister take the decision to re - commit UK taxpayer ' money to UNRWA , what advice do he receive on that infiltration , and what step have he demand be take , so that UK taxpayer ' money can never be use to fund terror or preach hate ? as the hon . Member would expect , we take the most careful advice and subject it to the most careful consideration , because we be concern , as anyone in this House would be , by the suggestion and allegation in relation to 7 October . we look at that really carefully , take it very seriously , and give it the utmost consideration . there have , of course , be an independent review and step put in place , but there be a vital role for UNRWA . many other country have restore funding for UNRWA — it be the right thing to do — but I can give an assurance that the most careful consideration be give before that step be take , as the hon . Member would expect . I warmly welcome the announcement that the UK will lead an initiative to crack down on Russia ' s shadow fleet of sanction - evade ship , which be help to generate dirty money to fund Russia ' s war machine . will the Prime Minister continue to make sanction enforcement a priority , and update the House on the state of international negotiation on use frozen russian asset , include those in Kensington and bayswater , to support Ukraine now ? I be grateful for that question . important progress be make at NATO on sanction , and it be important for the House to have regular update , so we can commit to give the next update as soon as it be appropriate to do so . I think across the House there be a resolve to use sanction as effectively as they can be use , as one of the weapon in relation to russian aggression . I hope the Prime Minister enjoy welcome fellow european leader to Blenheim Palace in my constituency . one of my constituent , Rose , be study Spanish and French at Southampton University . she would like to spend her year abroad work in Spain to strengthen her language skill and improve her employment prospect , yet as it stand she have no right to work there . I hope the Prime Minister see the benefit of work with his european counterpart and perhaps make a few new friend . I hear his response on not rejoin the political structure , but as a specific measure to improve opportunity for young people , will he open talk with the European Union on a youth mobility scheme ? it be very good to be in the hon . member ' s constituency , at Blenheim Palace . I can not tell he how many european leader say to I that they have previously visit , usually while they be study in the UK , but have only pay the £ 5 to get into the ground , because they have not have the money to get into the building that they be then enter . that be a common theme . as for the substance of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , we be not return to freedom of movement . I understand the desire of people to work in other country , but I need to make it clear that there be no rejoin the European Union , no rejoin the single market or the custom union , and no return to freedom of movement . however , I do believe there be a well deal that we can work on , and I think that the more we can work across the House on that , the well , because then it will be the more enduring . as the proud home of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , my constituency know the vital importance of our armed force in keep Britain safe , so I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to set out a path towards spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . can the Prime Minister update the House on conversation that he have have with our NATO friend and ally to encourage other to match that target ? I be proud of the commitment that we already make to NATO on 2 % . as would be expect , we do have a discussion at the NATO council on the need for all NATO member to make that contribution and to increase their contribution , and there be a commitment to do so . our commitment to 2 . 5 % will be set out , and the path will be set out , by the Chancellor at a future fiscal event . can the Prime Minister confirm that in seek to reset Britain ' s relationship with the European Union , his Government will not accept the automatic application of EU rule in Britain unless they have be specifically agree by this Parliament ? yes . I thank the Prime Minister for the leadership that he have show in his discussion at Blenheim , especially those on NATO . I be proud to hear he recommit we to a two - state solution in the middle east , and to an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . do he agree that this conflict be dire , but urgently need sober and considerate solution rather than extreme rhetoric from those who might seek to sow further division ? yes , I do , and I be grateful for that question , because there be the prospect of a ceasefire . it be desperately need , for the reason that we have already discuss , but it will only happen if there be international agreement and a sober assessment that provide the framework for the release of the remain hostage — I shudder to think of the state of some of they — for the aid that be desperately need to be allow in at the scale that be need , and for the beginning of the process , in my view the only process , that will lead to a last resolution of this awful conflict . it be not just in all our interest , but our duty , to do everything we can to ensure that that come about . Border Security and Asylum Order . before I call the Home Secretary , may I just say this to she ? the statement do not arrive in my office in time ; it be late , and I believe that it be also late for the Opposition . quite rightly , the Home Secretary make a big thing of this when she be the shadow Home Secretary , so I remind she of her own word : statement do need to arrive on time . this be the second time so far , and I know it will not happen again , because what I have say will be take on board . may I thank you , Mr Speaker , for stand up for the Opposition Front Benchers , as I know you have often do for I in the past ? I apologise to the shadow Home Secretary for the delay in the arrival of the statement . Most people in the United Kingdom want to see strong border security , with a properly control and manage asylum system where our country do its bit , alongside other , to help those who have flee persecution , but where rule be properly respect and enforce so that those with no right to be here be swiftly remove . at the moment , we have none of those thing . border security be be undermine by criminal smuggler gang , and the asylum system be in chaos . tragically , 19 life have be lose in the channel so far this year , include child . no one should be make these perilous small boat journey . criminal gang have be allow to take hold along our border , and they be make huge profit from undermine our border security and put life at risk . they should not be able to get away with it . crossing in the first half of 2024 be up by 10 % on last year — the number be go up , instead of come down . at the same time , the asylum backlog be get bad , as decision making in the Home Office have drop . Home Office spending on asylum support have increase sevenfold in the space of just three year . this can not go on . since my appointment two week ago , I have review the policy , programme and legislation that we have inherit from our predecessor , and I have be shock by what I have find . not only be there already serious problem ; on current policy , the chaos and cost be likely to get bad . on our border security , it be clear that the security and enforcement arrangement we have inherit be too weak . criminal gang network be operate with impunity along our border , across the continent and beyond , and across the UK too . action between Britain and France in the channel have improve , and be prevent some boat crossing . the work of the small boat operational command in the channel be important and will continue , but we need to go much far . we should be take far more action upstream , long before the boat ever reach the french coast . Co - operation with Europol and other european police force and prosecutor be far too limited , and enforcement against exploitation and traffic in the UK be far too weak . information share with our european neighbour have reduce , rather than increase . as a result of these weak arrangement , I be extremely concerned that the high level of dangerous crossing that we have inherit be likely to persist throughout the summer . let I turn to the Rwanda migration and economic development partnership . two and a half year after the previous Government launch it , I can report that it have already cost the british taxpayer £ 700 million — in order to send just four volunteer . that include £ 290 million on payment to Rwanda and the cost of charter flight that never take off , detain hundred of people and then release they , and pay for more than 1 , 000 civil servant to work on the scheme — for a scheme to send four people . it be the most shocking waste of taxpayer ' money I have ever see . look forward , the cost be set to get bad . even if the scheme have ever get go , it be clear that it would have cover only a minority of arrival , yet a substantial portion of future cost be fix cost — for example , the annual direct payment to Rwanda , the contract for escort , the staffing in the Home Office , the detention and reception centre , and more . the taxpayer would have still have to pay out , no matter how few people be relocate . most shockingly of all , over the six year of the migration and economic development partnership forecast , the previous Government have plan to spend over £ 10 billion of taxpayer ' money on the scheme . they do not tell Parliament that . I thank the Rwandan Government for work with the UK in good faith , because the failure of this policy lie with the previous UK Government . it have be a costly con , and the taxpayer have have to pay the price . I turn to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which have be in place for a year . we be tell that it would stop the boat , but it have clearly fail . the legal contradiction in the Act be so great that they make it unworkable ; indeed , 12 month on , the central duty have not even be enact . it be also cost the taxpayer billion of pound . under section 9 of the Act , people who arrive in the UK can claim asylum and get asylum accommodation . however , under section 30 , if they arrive after March 2023 and meet key condition in the Act , no decision can be take on their case ; they just stay in the asylum system . even if they have come here unlawfully for economic reason and should be return to their home country , they will not be , because the law do not work . only a small minority might ever have be send to Rwanda ; everyone else stay indefinitely in taxpayer - fund accommodation and support . the Home Office estimate that around 40 % of asylum case since March 2023 should be cover by those Illegal Migration Act condition . the remain 60 % , under the previous Government ' s policy , should still have be process and clear in the normal way . however , even though previous Ministers introduce this new law 12 month ago , they do not ever introduce an effective operational way for the Home Office to distinguish between the case cover by the Illegal Migration Act and the other case where decision should continue — that is , between the 40 % and the 60 % . as a result , decision can not be take on any of they . I have be shock to discover that the Home Office have effectively stop make the majority of asylum decision . thousand of asylum caseworker can not do their proper job . as a result , the backlog of asylum case be now go up . this be the most extraordinary policy I have ever see . we have inherit asylum " Hotel California " — people arrive in the asylum system and they never leave . the previous Government ' s policy be effectively an amnesty , and that be the wrong thing to do . it be not just bad policy , it be also completely unaffordable . the cost of this indefinitely rise asylum backlog in hotel and accommodation support bill be astronomical . the potential cost of asylum support over the next four year if we continue down this track could be an eye - water £ 30 billion to £ 40 billion . that be double the annual police budget for England and Wales . this newly elect Government be not prepared to let this chaos continue , so let I turn to the action we be urgently take to restore some grip to the system , to tackle the chaos and to get cost down . first , I have inform the Rwandan Government that we will be end the migration and economic development partnership . we will save £ 220 million on further direct payment to Rwanda over the next few year and we will immediately save up to £ 750 million that have be put aside by the previous Government to cover the MEDP this year . secondly , we will invest some of the save money from the migration partnership into a new border security command instead . it will bring together the work of the Border Force , the National Crime Agency , the small boat operational command and intelligence and security officer . the recruitment have begin for a new commander and we will put in place additional cross - border officer , investigator , prosecutor , and intelligence and security officer with the new counter - terror - style power against organised immigration crime announce in the King ' s Speech last week . we be immediately increase UK officer ' involvement in Europol and the European Migrant Smuggling Centre . thirdly , we will replace the Rwanda migration partnership with a serious return and enforcement programme . we have immediately replace the flight planning for Rwanda with actual flight to return people who have no right to stay to their home country instead . we be immediately redeploy Home Office staff away from the fail Rwanda partnership and into return and enforcement , to reverse the collapse in removal that have take place since 2010 . I have task the immigration enforcement team with intensify enforcement activity this summer , target illegal work across high - risk sector . fourthly , we will end the asylum chaos and start take asylum decision again so that we can clear the backlog and end asylum hotel . the new border security , asylum and immigration Bill announce in the King ' s Speech will bring in new replacement arrangement , include fast - track decision and return to safe country . in the meantime , I be lay a statutory instrument that end the retrospective nature of the Illegal Migration Act provision , so that the Home Office can immediately start clear case from after March 2023 . make this one simple change will save the taxpayer an estimate £ 7 billion over the next 10 year . fifthly , as the Prime Minister have just set out , we will work closely with our european neighbour to tackle the upstream cause of migration , include through the Rome process . this country will always do our bit alongside other to help those flee war and persecution , but we need a proper system where rule be enforce . there be no quick fix to the chaos create over the last 14 year . it will take time to clear the asylum backlog , to bring cost down and to get new enforcement in place to strengthen our border and prevent dangerous boat crossing , but there be no alternative to serious hard graft . we can not waste any more time or money on gimmick . the country vote for change , and that mean it be time for a sensible , serious plan . I commend this statement to the House . this very important statement overrun slightly , so I be more than happy for the Opposition spokesperson also to run over , if need be . I call the shadow Home Secretary . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I welcome you back to your place , on my first opportunity to do so . in my time as Home Secretary and , before that , Foreign Secretary , you be very kind about my minor indiscretion at the Dispatch Box , my late deployment of statement and my slight overrun . you have always be very kind to my family in sometimes quite try circumstance , which I very much appreciate . I also take this opportunity to congratulate the right hon . member for Pontefract , Castleford and Knottingley ( Yvette Cooper ) on her appointment as Home Secretary . it be a challenging but incredibly rewarding job and , because the nation ' s security be now very much in she and her Ministers ' hand , I genuinely wish she all success in everything she be look to do . the right hon . Lady inherit a dedicated team of Home Office civil servant who will help she to keep the country safe and secure . they help I when I be in her position and , although it be disorderly to recognise their presence , if I be to wave my hand vaguely in their direction , I might take the opportunity to thank my previous private office civil servant . my note say that I want to thank the Home Secretary and her team for advance sight of her statement , but I will put a line through that . the Labour party , and indeed the Home Secretary , like to talk tough on border security , but today ' s statement , despite all the hyperbole and the make - up number , be basically an admission of what we know all along , which be that the Labour party have scrap the Rwanda partnership on ideological ground , remove a deterrent that the National Crime Agency say we need . the level of discourtesy direct towards the people and Government of Rwanda be quite breathtaking . to have they read about this decision in the paper before anyone from the UK Government have the good grace to formally notify they be an error , and no one in this House believe for a moment that this level of discourtesy would have happen have the partnership be with a european country . Labour have give an effective amnesty to thousand of asylum seeker who be ban under conservative plan . labour ' s plan amount to do less than the Conservatives be do when we be in government , merely change the sign above a few desk in the Home Office with its so - call border security command and return unit . before the election , the right hon . Lady say that she would create a return unit , and now the narrative be that she will redeploy some staff — not increase the number of staff , but redeploy some staff — which show that the return function already exist . there be no safe third country to which to return people who can not be return home , so where will the right hon . Lady send people who come here from country like Afghanistan , Iran and Syria ? have she start negotiate return agreement with the Taliban , the ayatollah of Iran or Assad in Syria ? if she be not go to send to Rwanda anyone who arrive here on a small boat , to which local authority will she send they ? we be close hotel when I be in government , so I wonder which local authority will receive those asylum seeker . if not Rwanda , will it be Rochdale , Romford or Richmond ? most importantly , can the right hon . Lady now confirm that people who arrive here illegally in a small boat will be able to claim asylum ? finally , how long after the right hon . Lady brief the medium that she be scrap the Rwanda partnership do she have the courtesy to speak directly with the Rwandan Government ? it be because we now have no deterrent that nobody want to head her new so - call border security command . Neil Basu , a former senior police officer for whom I have huge respect , be labour ' s no . 1 choice , and he have rule himself out . we now learn that General Stuart Skeates , a highly respected former general in the British Army , who be , in large part , responsible for deliver the Albania deal , which cut small boat arrival from that country by 90 % , have resign from his position as director general for strategic operation . to misquote Oscar Wilde , " to lose one border commander could be see as a misfortune ; to lose two look like carelessness " — perhaps even incompetence . I notice that the new job advert — it be available online for those who be think of apply — for Labour ' s border security command say that the role be not locate in Kent , where the channel be , but be flexible from Belfast , Bristol , Cardiff , Durham , Glasgow , Liverpool or Manchester , none of which , the last time I check , be anywhere near the english channel . the reality be that everybody know , include the people smuggler , that the small boat problem be go to get bad — indeed , have already get bad under Labour — because there be no deterrent . People be be sell a lie when they be be smuggle into this country , across one of the busy shipping lane . we need to stop they . too many life have already be lose . sadly , six more have be lose in the channel in the last few week , and our heart go out to they and their loved one . we disagree on many thing , but we can agree that we need to put an end to this evil trade . sadly , the initial decision make by her Government have make the problem bad , not well . I welcome the shadow Home Secretary ' s word about the dedication of Home Office official and about the importance of work on national security . as he know , when I be shadow Secretary of State , I always work with he and support he around national security issue . I know he will do the same and I welcome he to his shadow post . I presume what we hear be the first of the conservative leadership contest speech . I will respond to some of the thing the shadow Home Secretary say . we need to be clear about what we have inherit from he and his party . under his party , we have have the high level of spring crossing ever . gang have be leave to wreak havoc , not just along the french coast but across our border , through our country and back through Europe . asylum support cost be set to rise to £ 30 billion to £ 40 billion over the next four year as a result of his and his party ' s decision . as for the idea of deterrence , I be sorry but four volunteer be send to Rwanda be not a deterrent to anyone for anything at all . the idea that he would spend £ 10 billion on this fantasy , this fiction , this gimmick rather than ever do the hard graft — £ 700 million have already be spend on send just four volunteer in two and a half year . we have often warn that , frankly , it would be cheap to put they up in the Paris Ritz . as it turn out , it would have be cheap to buy the Paris Ritz . as for the amnesty , I do not know if the right hon . Gentleman have ever understand the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which he vote for and he inherit from his predecessor . he ask if people who arrive illegally can claim asylum — that be exactly what happen under section 9 of that Act . they can all claim asylum , enter the asylum system and be entitle to asylum support . that be what happen in the system , which we have inherit , that he have preside over and run since he become Home Secretary . the problem be that people enter the asylum system but never leave . he do not bring in operational arrangement to try to take decision properly . his Home Office effectively stop take the majority of asylum decision in May . perhaps he do not know that , but that be what happen in his Home Office . this party and this government do not believe in amnesty . we think that the rule need to be respect and enforce . his party be the one that have give an effective amnesty to people who can end up stay in the asylum system forever . we believe that the rule should be enforce . the problem be that that be what the shadow Home Secretary believe too . he do not believe any of the stuff that he have just say . he be only say it for his Tory leadership contest ; he be just too weak to tell his party the truth . he think that the whole policy on Rwanda be " batshit " and then he go out to bat for it . it be just not serious . I welcome my right hon . friend to her place and thank she for her statement . we all suspect that policy in the Home Office under the previous Government be a bit of a mess , but we do not realise how much of an expensive mess it be until she provide we with the detail in her statement . let I ask the Home Secretary about the attraction for people to come here illegally to work in the black economy . if people have suspicion , they have to go to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority , UK Visas and Immigration and the police to get action to deal with those activity . I note that the Home Secretary be look to try to combine the approach to deal with illegal working in the car washing sector . will that be a systematic change of approach , and will it be apply to other sector as well ? it would be very welcome if that be the case . my hon . friend be right . we must tackle the illegal working and also the exploitation that can often drive a lot of what happen . that be why we be intensify the immigration enforcement , which be part of our new , huge expansion to the return and enforcement unit . he be right that the process , which have become too complicated and too bureaucratic , need to be simplify to make sure that the rule be be enforce . we have set out the high - risk sector on which we wish to focus this summer , but we need a more systematic approach . we have talk about a single enforcement approach , and we will be set out more detail about those plan . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . in 2018 , the number of small boat arrival stand at 299 . in 2023 , last year , the number have rise to more than 29 , 000 . what happen in those intervene five year ? one thing that happen be the closure of the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme , which be introduce by the coalition Government in 2014 and be design to select some of the most vulnerable people from refugee camp in Jordan , near Syria . what we have see since the closure of that scheme be people choose instead to make for these shore rather than apply in refugee camp . will the Home Secretary rule out the offshore processing of asylum seeker , or will she consider introduce a scheme similar to the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme , which could incentivise asylum seeker apply for asylum close to the war zone afflict they ? I welcome the hon . member to his new post . he be right to talk about the importance of the UK do its bit to help those who have flee persecution and conflict . it be why I strongly believe that the Homes for Ukraine programme be immensely important . personally , it have be important to our family . it be important that the UK have do its bit , include in previous year around Hong Kong and Afghanistan . that must continue to be the case , but that help must operate alongside a properly function system , otherwise criminal gang will continue to exploit the system whatever it be . at the moment , those criminal gang be get away with it . let I turn to the specific issue of offshore processing . in fact , the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme be a form of offshore processing , just as the Homes for Ukraine scheme be . there be different way to arrange these thing . our approach be always to look at what work . as long as it meet proper standard in term of international law , we should be serious about what it be that work in order to tackle the complex problem that we face . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . I think that my constituent will be incredulous when they be inform of the extent to which the previous Government waste so much money on this scheme . what commitment can she give the House that we will be able to rescind our commitment to spend further money on any such programme , and that no further public money will be waste ? my hon . friend make a really important point . I welcome she to Parliament , and I welcome she ask question on this issue . we have to take a strong , rigorous and robust approach to value for money in every Department . it can not simply be the responsibility of the Treasury ; it have to be the responsibility of the Home Office , and of every Government Department . that be the approach that this Labour Government will take . I be frankly shocked that under the last Government not just the Home Office but the Treasury , the then Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleague all sign off on these incredibly high payment and cost . they must have have the modelling that would tell they how much the cost would go up by , yet they sign off on they . our Government be determined to pursue value for money at every stage . if the number of small boat crossing be high next summer than this summer , will she resign ? I realise that the right hon . Member be keen to get rid of I before I have even finish stand up at the Dispatch Box . unfortunately , we have see a succession of Conservative Home Secretaries — eight , I think , in the last eight year — none of whom resign . two of they be sack under the last government — actually , those two be the same person . look , we have to be serious about this , because the dangerous boat crossing be undermine border security and put life at risk . nobody should be make those journey , and we have to work not just here but across other european country to stop boat before they reach the french coast in the first place , to ensure that life can be save and the gang be hold accountable for their terrible crime . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement on the shocking figure that be symbolic of the failure of Conservative Members to restore control over our border . I note that , despite that spending of taxpayer ' cash , removal of fail asylum seeker and foreign national offender collapse under the Conservatives . what be the Home Office do to ensure that those who have no right to be in the UK be swiftly remove and the rule be properly enforce ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I welcome he to his seat in Parliament . he be right that removal of fail asylum seeker have fall by a third since 2010 . removal of foreign national offender have fall by a quarter . that be not good enough . it mean that the rule be not be respect or enforce , and it be why we will set up a new return and enforcement programme . we have commit to 1 , 000 additional staff to work on return and enforcement , to ensure that the rule be respect , not only where we have return agreement in place but look at individual case as well . we must ensure that we have a system that people have confidence in . there be a lot of chaos to tackle , but we be determined to do it . the Home Secretary be absolutely right to lay into the Conservatives for their shamble of an immigration policy , which will define they for year to come , but all I be hear be she be hard on asylum seeker . enforcement seem to be her priority . when will we hear about the safe and legal route that asylum seeker access to come to this country , and will she stop the dehumanising and scapegoate language , and pledge to take no quarter from the belligerent behind I ? as I say in response to the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , ensure that the UK always do its bit to help those who have flee persecution be really important . we have do so through different programme in the past . we have the syrian family programme back in 2015 , which be important , but we also have to ensure that the system work and have credibility , and that the rule be enforce . too often at the moment the rule be not enforce , but they need to be , so that everyone can respect the system . also , too often we have criminal gang cause havoc , able to undermine border security and make huge profit . it have become a criminal industry along our border , and that be deeply damaging . I agree that this can not be about rhetoric ; nobody should be ramp up the rhetoric , especially alongside gimmick that do not work . we have to be serious about this issue and put in place sensible plan that work . I welcome the Home Secretary — the Labour Home Secretary — to her place . we have inherit an almighty mess , with asylum accommodation cost £ 8 million per day . it be absolute chaos and , accord to the Sunday Times , there be even middleman and middlewoman take advantage and profiteer through the system . how be she go to get a grip of this chaos we have inherit from the previous Tory Government ? my hon . friend raise an important question . as well as a failure to tackle the criminal gang take hold along the channel , there have also be too much of a focus on gimmick and a failure to have practical planning in place . for example , there be a failure to ensure that there be proper long - term contract on asylum accommodation , so that instead the chaos at Manston a couple of year ago lead to last - minute hotel procurement , which be completely inappropriate accommodation and cost a fortune as well . we have to tackle that . that be why we have set out plan and we be determined to make sure that we can get that backlog down and end asylum hotel use . as a result of the chaos with the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the fact that the Home Office have stop take decision , that will now take time and it will be difficult to sort out , but that be why the statutory instrument we be lay before the House today be so important . that alone should save the taxpayer £ 7 billion . I know the Labour party manage to go an entire election campaign without answer this question , and the Home Secretary fail to answer it again when ask by the shadow Home Secretary , but I will give it one more try . where do the Home Secretary intend to send fail asylum seeker from Afghanistan , Syria and Iran ? the hon . Gentleman obviously do not understand the system that his party and his Government put in place . all the people who be in the asylum system be stay there . under his policy for those individual , they be now be send all around the country into asylum hotel . that be the system the Conservatives have leave we with . we do not think that be the right thing to do . we think that asylum decision should be take on a case - by - case basis . that be the right thing to do . we also think we should have proper return agreement and do what his party should have be do , under his own policy , for the 60 % of people who continue to be entitle to asylum decision but be not get they under his Illegal Migration Act . what we will do be run the asylum system effectively , which his system should have be do . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the forensic work she have be do in her Department . what consideration have she give to humanitarian visa for people in Gaza to be reunite with their family , if they be study in the UK or work in our NHS ? my constituent have a wife and two little child in Gaza at the moment ; he can not return home , yet the last Government refuse to make provision for they to come and be reunite with he in the UK . my hon . friend will know that there be long - stand arrangement for family reunion and for refugee . there be also different concern that have be raise around Gaza , because there be a real importance to people ' s be able to return to their home in the middle east too . if she have an individual case that she would like to raise with my hon . friend the Immigration Minister , she be very welcome to do so . when I be in the migrant camp in northern France last year , the migrant tell I and some of my colleague that one deterrent that would stop they come would be if they be turn back in the channel or send back the same day . we see the Border Force agency take a boatload back just last week . will the Home Secretary now , with that advice , grow a political backbone and order the Border Force to send the boat back the same day ? the hon . member refer to an incident in the channel where there be co - operation between Border Force and the french authority that also involve return people to the french coast . that operational co - operation be important , but I would just say to he that " co - operation " be the really important word . if we want to prevent gang operate and organising , and prevent boat from reach the french coast in the first place , we have to work closely not just with France but with Germany and other european country , and with the country through which some of the supply chain be operate . it be that co - operation that he and some other in his party have quite often refuse , but it will be important and be our good way to stop the criminal gang . in a few short day , my right hon . friend have simultaneously save the taxpayer a tremendous amount of money and get more people in the Home Office work on get the system sort than in previous year . I congratulate she on that . do she agree that it be entirely in keep with labour value to ensure safe refuge for those flee war zone , and , at the same time , to ensure that those who be not entitle to be here be repatriate , save the UK taxpayer money ? my hon . friend be right . there be principle here about do our bit to help those who have flee persecution while also ensure that the rule be enforce so that people who do not have a right to be here should be swiftly return . at the moment , none of those thing apply or be work properly . we have to restore order to the asylum system so that we can go back to the principle that , go back many year , the UK have always stand for . it be a huge relief that the vile Rwanda scheme have be scrap . I have listen carefully to the Home Secretary ' s statement . give that 94 % of people seek asylum in this country be ready and eager to work to support themselves , and that freeze they out of work leave they in destitution and mean that the UK miss out on tax revenue from their work , and on much - need specialist and professional such as the nurse I meet recently in an asylum seeker project in Bristol , will the Home Secretary take the advice of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and urgently lift the ban on asylum seeker work ? no , I do not believe that be the right approach , because we need to make swift decision and ensure that the rule be properly respect and enforce . I be concern about employer who exploit those who have sometimes arrive as a result of criminal gang , traffic or smuggling . I do not believe that employer should be able to exploit those kind of route and journey . if people who have flee persecution be grant asylum in this country , of course they should be able to work and to do so swiftly , but if they be not entitle to be here — if they have not flee persecution — and should be turn down and return to their home country , they should not be able to work in the UK . my constituent take this issue seriously as they be at the very frontline and the Conservatives have leave we with open border . I thank my right hon . friend for deal with the matter with such seriousness . how long will it take to put the border security commander in place , and what sort of impact will they have in assist law enforcement ? I thank my hon . friend and welcome he to his position . I know that his Dover and Deal constituency have face real pressure as a result of the criminal gang and the small boat crossing . I thank he for his work and experience in tackle these issue . he know very well the work of the National Crime Agency , for example , in tackle the criminal gang . we be put in place the step for the border security command straight away . we have already begin recruitment not just for the new commander but for additional staff : hundred of additional cross - border police , security and intelligence officer , and specialist investigator and prosecutor . that work will start straight away . we have already immediately increase the UK presence in Europol and its european migrant smuggling centre so that we can get on with that work to build those partnership and take action . I be sure the Home Secretary agree that this be a moral issue : we must never again see people die in the channel . however , do she also agree that deterrence must be a part of the panoply of measure that we put forward ? I be not clear on what deterrent measure she be go to put in place or — because this question have fail to be answer a number of time — what will happen to fail asylum seeker from country such as Syria , Iran and Afghanistan ? I agree with the hon . member that it be devastating that life be be lose , include child ' s . we have see increase violence from some of the gang , crowd more people on to these overcrowded boat , which have result in a seven - year - old girl lose her life . the hon . member talk about deterrence . the problem with the Rwanda scheme be that it be clearly not a deterrent : four people be send over two and a half year be not a deterrent at all . there be also no deterrent at all for any of the criminal gang , which at the moment can operate with impunity , so we have to start by ensure that the criminal gang can face justice and that action be take against the supply chain early on — that we have consequence , and that there be a deterrent there . I would also say that a system whereby people can arrive in the UK and stay in the asylum accommodation system forever , which be the situation under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which the hon . member ' s party vote for , mean that there be no disincentive for anyone . it make it very easy for people to stay indefinitely and work illegally , even if they have no right to be here . that go against the rule and mean that the system be just not work . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , which contain some really quite revelatory point about the state of the finance . Sandiacre in my constituency have be home to two asylum hotel , one of which I be very pleased to see close recently , but the Best western hotel remain open . this be a huge cost to people in my constituency and across the nation , and it leave asylum seeker catch in an endless and inescapable limbo . what step will the Home Secretary take to ensure that we can close asylum hotel once and for all ? my hon . friend make a really important point . we need to clear the backlog — not just let it grow and grow , which be what the Conservatives be do , but clear the backlog so that we can end asylum hotel , which be inappropriate and extremely costly . have discover that the Home Office have effectively stop take the majority of asylum decision under the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) — who do not seem to know what his own Department be do as a result of his own policy — I be extremely concerned that that will now take long to do , but it remain an immensely important thing that we have to do . the other thing we will have to do be tackle the backlog in the appeal process that the Conservatives have allow to grow , which be also slow down the system . I congratulate the Home Secretary on her appointment and on her statement to the House . follow on from a previous question , but perhaps with a nuance , will asylum seeker — perhaps after initial registration — be allow to work and pay taxis while their application be pende ? if people have a right to be in the UK — if they have flee persecution and be grant refugee status , or they have come to be here on a visa through the normal process — we will of course have they contribute to our country . that have be the case for generation , but if people be not here lawfully — if they have not flee persecution , and should fail the asylum process and be return — they should not be work in the UK . this be simply about have a swift system so that we can make decision quickly and ensure that the rule be enforce . I be delighted to see my right hon . friend in her place on the Government Benches . I be proud that Bradford be a city of sanctuary , and of organisation such as Bevan Health , set up by a gp in my constituency , which work to deliver vital healthcare to asylum seeker who be await decision , sometimes for over 12 month and in many case in hotel . can my right hon . friend provide an assurance that asylum seeker will continue to have access to essential healthcare as our Government work to clear the asylum backlog , so that in future few people will be leave languish in hotel ? my hon . friend be right ; it be really important that we try to clear the backlog as rapidly as possible . it include some people who be very vulnerable and may be in need of support . it also include people who should not be in the UK , and the system should operate fairly so that they be swiftly return . but we actually have to get back to decision making . I think I would be come to this Dispatch Box and say , " well , what we want to do be to speed up or accelerate decision making . " I do not think I would be stand at this Dispatch Box say , " no , no , we actually have to restart asylum decision making in the first place , because the Conservatives just stop it . " I really have not expect that . it really be far more shocking than I have imagine , and I really think I have a good imagination . when you take a drug dealer off the street corner , guess what : another one appear , because of the vile drug trade and the amount of money involve . my constituent in Boston and Skegness believe it be exactly the same with try the Home Secretary ' s policy of smash the gang . if she smash one gang , it be like a game of whack - a - mole : another one will appear and then another one , because there be so much money involve . here be the point : how long will the Home Secretary give her policy before realise that the only policy that will work be the one she actually start last week , which be to pick people up and take they back to France , which we be entitle to do under international maritime law ? it will help british citizen , help british taxpayer and help the French , and it will reduce the magnet factor . I say to the hon . member that no one should be make these dangerous journey , and the criminal gang be make massive profit from organise these boat . I just do not think they should be able to get away with it , and they be at the moment . we should be take action against those criminal gang , and I simply do not accept that it be impossible to go after they . we must ensure that we take action not just on the gang themselves , but on their supply chain , the route the boat be take and their finance , and that we properly and substantially increase law enforcement resource . as hon . member will know , we have have case where journalist have identify smuggler and those responsible for be involve in some of the smuggler gang , and I think those gang member should be face law enforcement . it be essential that we do this . this be about properly stand up for the rule of law , as well as make sure that we do everything we can to prevent these dangerous small boat crossing . I be very pleased to see the Home Secretary take her place . my constituent in Aylesbury have two concern : first , that we re - establish control of our border ; and secondly , that we remember the need for compassion for vulnerable people flee conflict and persecution . on that point , will she commit to ensure that there be resettlement route for people flee desperate and dangerous circumstance , and what will she do to ensure that they be viable ? my hon . friend be right , and I welcome she to her place in this House . I think what people in this country have always want be that combination of strong border security and a proper , fair system , so that we do our bit alongside other country to help those who have flee persecution , but also so that the rule be enforce and those who do not have a right to be here be return . she will know that there be a series of different resettlement route or different form of support — for example , the Homes for Ukraine scheme , which continue , and some of the afghan resettlement scheme . we be concerned about the operation of some of the afghan scheme , and we be look far at that to ensure they be function properly . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . the tragedy of desperate people die in the channel be compound by desperate people die in the Mediterranean and the Aegean as human being flee all kind of horrible situation seek a place of safety . be she co - operate with other european country on a safe route for asylum seeker ? be she prepared to look in a much more humane way at the desperate situation face people flee human right abuse and war around the world ? the right hon . Member make an important point about what be happen in the Mediterranean , and about the pressure we have see and the fact that , as the Prime Minister say in his statement , we have see not just conflict , war and persecution , but the impact of climate change , make people travel and sometimes lead they to make dangerous journey . we should be work to prevent the need for those dangerous journey in the first place . that be why the Prime Minister announce last week at the European Political Community summit that we will invest over £ 80 million , alongside work with other european country , also as part of the Rome process , both to tackle some of the wide criminal gang network that still operate in the Mediterranean and to ensure that we address the injustice and serious crisis that lead to people make such dangerous journey in the first place . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend the Home Secretary to her place . one of the consequence of the collapse in our asylum system over the past few year have be the increase and intolerable pressure on local community — my constituent in Hartlepool raise this with I time and again . will she outline how the step that she be take will begin to reduce that pressure on community such as Hartlepool ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . there be a real challenge from the chaotic way the asylum system have be run , which have lead to the last - minute procurement of hotel and have end up be extremely costly . everybody lose out from spend billion of pound on this system , but also from local authority often not have time to work with community or accommodation provider to ensure that thing be manage in the right way . because asylum decision stop be take , there will now be some challenge in get the system work again , which mean that bring down the backlog will take long than we initially anticipate . but we be determined to do this ; it be the only way to get back to have a functional system that everybody across the country should be able to support . I welcome the Home Secretary to her place and wish she well for the future , and I thank she for the helpful and confident answer that she have give . there be , of course , a glaring issue regard border security much close to home : the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland . this border be patrol by Republic of Ireland official , and understandably so as their right to protect their nation be paramount . however , it be also clear that the Good Friday agreement do not preclude the need to conduct check on the border . what discussion have there be with the Police Service of Northern Ireland and security force in Northern Ireland to ensure that the open border with the Republic of Ireland do not become a free route for UK immigration ? it be a pleasure to get my first question at the Dispatch Box from the hon . member , and I look forward to very many more . he raise important issue . the border issue between Northern Ireland and Ireland be of course different ; we rightly have different arrangement that reflect our long - share history . but we also have very close co - operation . we have close policing co - operation , close information sharing , and additional information sharing that be not currently possible under the arrangement we have inherit with other european country . it be important that those information - share arrangement continue , and hopefully we can build on they with other european partner . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . I share her astonishment at the scale of the mismanagement of the asylum system by the previous Government . my constituency of Colchester have host many asylum seeker and refugee over the year . we be a city of sanctuary . our local authority have play a full part in support that work . will she confirm that those local authority will be fully engage in the work go forward to ensure that we have more effective support system ? my hon . friend be right to raise the importance of work closely with local authority . we be determined to do that . the Immigration Minister already have work in chain look at how we can have well work co - operation between the Home Office and local authority . it be also important to recognise that , through many generation , refugee have come to this country and contribute to our economy and society and be a hugely important part of that . it be partly because we have that important history that it be crucial to get the whole system function again , instead of the chaos we have at the moment , which undermine everyone ' s confidence . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . the people of Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield want to see these crossing stop and these gang smash , and they will welcome her tough action today . because of the previous Government ' s complete failure to control our border , they spend million of pound a week on asylum hotel . what will she do to speed up the processing of people in these hotel and end their use ? I welcome my hon . friend to Parliament . we have to do all these thing . we have to take action on the criminal gang exploit the situation in the first place , which involve much strong co - operation with european colleague . that must include the new counter - terror power that will be in the new legislation as part of the King ' s Speech to strengthen power against organised immigration crime . alongside that , we have to get the basic right . we have to start take decision again , as well as speed up asylum decision and make the system work again . crowdstrike : IT outage on Friday 19 July , we see a CrowdStrike software update on Microsoft system result in a major global IT outage . it cause significant impact around the world . impact be see in the transport sector , with flight ground in Europe and the US , and delay and cancellation here in the UK . live train departure board be impact during the morning rush hour , and some medium outlet lose the ability to provide live coverage . the outage cause substantial inconvenience for passenger hope to travel for the summer holiday getaway on the busy travel weekend of the year . airport and airline across the UK have measure in place to maintain safe operation , support passenger welfare , extend operate hour and deploy additional staff to support late - run operation and keep people move where possible . as with all incident , the sector will review its response and implement any learning . more concerningly , large part of the local UK healthcare system lose access to test result and appointment information , affect mostly GP service . try and test NHS contingency plan be enact and service be expect to be operate at full capacity in the next few day . small business without dedicated IT support system be heavily impact due to disruption to card - only payment system and atm , with many resort to operate cash - only while firm work to fix their system . many firm be able to get back online quickly and the remainder be expect to restore operation this week . official from the National Cyber Security Centre quickly establish that the outage be not the result of a security incident or malicious cyber - activity . the cause be instead identify to be a flawed CrowdStrike software update that cause Windows machine to crash . on Friday morning , CrowdStrike issue guidance on how to solve the problem , give user a manual fix for each affected device or system . I now believe that CrowdStrike be in the process of implement an automate update , which can be apply remotely and should therefore speed up recovery . however , there be still residual impact from the fail update , and it be important that we continue to monitor the situation and the long - term impact to UK sector and secondary impact from international disruption . ever since the incident occur , the Government have work closely with both Microsoft and CrowdStrike . my Cabinet Office official have be lead co - ordination of the Government response across all impact sector of the economy . that include close monitoring of affected public service to ensure that business continuity plan be enact and service be support as they come back online . two Cobra senior official meeting be also convene on Friday to co - ordinate the response , and official from across his Majesty ' s government meet over the weekend to continuously monitor the impact and the recovery process . I be pleased to say that Government service and the online service that the Government provide be and remain largely unaffected . my colleague include the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the Health Secretary and the Transport Secretary attend briefing with official throughout , and the Prime Minister be keep inform . the majority of the sector that be impact have now mostly recover . the UK transport system — aviation , rail , road and maritime — be run normally . nhs staff work hard over the course of Friday and the weekend to quickly apply the fix require , and my colleague in the Department for Health and Social Care have confirm that system be now back online , include for GPs . their advice be that patient should continue to attend their appointment unless tell not to . there may still be some delay , and GPs will need to rebook appointment that could not be make during the IT outage . the public should continue to contact their GPs in the normal way . as it system be complex , we can expect that minor disruption will continue in some area while system continue to recover , but my official expect those to be resolve in the next couple of day . I would like to thank everyone who have work so hard to get system up and run again , and all staff who have work tirelessly to support individual impact by the outage . follow this incident , the Cabinet Office will work with the National Cyber Security Centre and other partner across Government to review the lesson learn . the Central Digital and Data Office will work with the NCSC to implement any improvement to the exist response plan to cover both technical resilience feature as well as cyber . the Cobra unit will work with Departments to support their process for establish how the organisation and sector they represent manage the impact of the outage and what lesson have be learn . as soon as the Government be elect , we take immediate step to begin legislate to protect public service and the third - party service they use . our cyber - security and resilience Bill , include in the King ' s Speech , will strengthen our defence and ensure that more essential digital service than ever before be protect . for example , it will look at expand the remit of the exist regulation , put regulator on a strong footing and increase reporting requirement to build a well picture in Government of cyber threat . technology failure can be as disruptive as cyber - attack , and the move to create the centre for digital government within the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology be aim at create a more resilient digital public sector . what this incident show be how dependent the modern world be on complex and interconnect IT system and how essential preparedness for such event be , include business continuity planning . notwithstanding the immense frustration and inconvenience that the outage have cause , I be pleased to see that effective contingency plan mitigate the very serious impact that the outage could have have . I be pleased also that there be to be a comprehensive process to identify the lesson from this episode . I hope that they will lead to improvement that both help prevent similar incident and far improve our resilience to system outage and the impact they can have . in that spirit , I commend the statement to the House . may I begin by welcome the hon . Lady to her role and thank she for advance sight of the statement ? in that role I know she will be support by a dedicated team of civil servant , who represent the very good of public service . I have no doubt that they will serve she as well as they do I . the hon . Lady will be aware of the enormous challenge face this government and those around the world in relation to cyber - security . as I warn when I be the responsible Minister , threat to public service and critical national infrastructure come from a range of challenge , from hostile state actor to human error and design flaw . last week we see those challenge vividly bring to life . follow the corrupted antivirus update by CrowdStrike on Friday , 8 . 5 million Microsoft device globally be render unusable . that left airport disrupt , patient record temporarily lose and gps unable to access important patient datum , create significant backlog . that be more than an inconvenience . I pay tribute to all those work in our public service for the effort they undertake over the weekend to restore those service , and to the work of dedicated cyber specialist across Government , include in the National Cyber Security Centre . in government we undertake a wide range of measure to enhance the nation ' s cyber - security : create the National Cyber Security Centre , introduce secure by design , set cyber - resilience target , launch GovAssure and transform the oversight of governmental cyber - security . I note , as the hon . Lady say , that the Government intend to build on that progress by bring forward a cyber - security and resilience Bill . will she therefore outline the timetable for the Bill , and will the Government consider mandatory cyber - security target for the UK public sector ? be the Government consider obligation to ensure that infrastructure be design to be resilient against common cause problem , such as this one ? what step be be take to enhance cyber - security in the devolved Administrations and in part of the public sector such as the NHS , which be operationally independent ? specifically in relation to this incident , what assessment have be make of the prevalence of CrowdStrike within critical national infrastructure ? what further reassurance can the Government give in relation to the timetable for full recovery of key system and datum ? in particular , can the Minister assure employee that this month ' s payroll will not be adversely affect ? Britain ' s cyber industry be world lead . Cyber - security now employ more than 60 , 000 people and bring in nearly £ 12 billion - worth of revenue annually . this transformation be in part due to our £ 5 . 3 billion investment , which launch the country ' s first national cyber - security strategy . I therefore urge the government — I see the Chancellor in her place — to continue such investment . incident such as that of CrowdStrike should not deter we from the path of progress . we must embrace digitalisation and the huge improvement to public service that it offer . the adoption of artificial intelligence across Government be the close thing we have to a silver bullet for public sector productivity . however , if we be to command public confidence , people must be assure that technology be safe , secure and reliable . such incident demonstrate how reliant the Government and public service be on large technology company , and how much responsibility they have for the service that have become critical to people ' s life and livelihood . that be why , in government , I call for we to work more closely with lead technology firm to address these share challenge . the good solution be partnership . to that end , what further engagement will the Minister undertake with Microsoft , CrowdStrike and the wide sector to ensure that there be no such recurrence ? the task for we all be to build on exist progress that have transform Britian ' s cyber defence , and to enhance protection for british family , business and the very heart of Government . in that mission , the Government can rely on the support of the Opposition . I thank the shadow Minister for his contribution and his question . in particular , I echo the thank to all those in Departments across the civil service who be involve in deal with the outage last Friday and in mitigate its effect . I set out in my statement that our cyber - security and resilience Bill , which be include in the King ' s Speech , will strengthen our defence and ensure that more digital service be protect . that be a priority for this Government . the Bill will look at expand the remit of regulation , put regulator on a strong footing and increase reporting requirement , so that the Government can build a well picture of cyber - threat . we will consider the implication of Friday ' s incident as we develop that legislation , but rest assure that we be work across Government to ensure resilience . as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say in his statement on the covid inquiry module 1 report , he will lead a review assess our national resilience to the full range of risk that the UK face , include cyber - risk . it be a great pleasure to see my right hon . friend the Minister in her place . as she say , the CrowdStrike outage be a reminder not only that technology be so integrated into all our life , make they well , but also of our dependence on the standard of development , deployment and integration of new technology , which be largely not visible to we . I be reassure to hear about the step that the Government and business have be take to mitigate the impact , but I fear that small business and consumer do not have the same resource . do she agree that people should not have to be able to reboot from a blue screen in order to enjoy the benefit of technology ? will her government move to ensure that consumer be well protect ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution , and I want to acknowledge all the work that she have do in this area . it have be hugely valuable . she make really important point about ensure that consumer and small business be protect , as well as Government Departments and big business . I be sure that will form part of the lesson learn from this incident , and will feed into the Bill that we will introduce . this be my first opportunity to welcome Ministers to their place . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . I want to focus on the impact on the NHS . my thank , and I be sure those of the entire House , go to all NHS staff who have be scramble to deal with urgent inquiry from distressed patient . I wonder if I might press Ministers for assurance on two patient group who need time - critical care . first , some patient require blood test result before they can commence urgent treatment or have operation . be there any assurance on the attention that they will be give by the NHS , both now and in any future scenario ? secondly , there be patient at great risk of become extremely ill from get covid . since the previous Government scrap the covid medicine delivery unit , many vulnerable patient have be struggle to get the anti - viral that they need from their gp in time . that situation be make much bad when this kind of disruption happen . can the hon . Lady provide assurance about any attention that NHS England have give to those two patient cohort ? if not , be she willing to meet I to discuss what we might do in future ? I thank the hon . member for her question highlight the issue face vulnerable patient . I be pleased to report that there be no reported impact on 111 or 999 service , and that patient be able to access emergency care . the majority of the impact on GP service be in access patient record , GP appointment and prescription . patient who could not access GP appointment be able to attend urgent care service , and GPs be able to issue paper prescription . however , I will pass on the hon . Lady ' s concern to my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care , because they be incredibly important issue and we need to ensure that vulnerable patient be protect , go forwards . may I take this opportunity to welcome you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to your very temporary position , and to welcome my hon . friend the Minister to her role ? can she give the House any further detail of the impact of this outage in Scotland , and what conversation have her Department have with the Scottish Government in recent day ? I welcome my hon . friend back to the House ; it be fantastic to see she , rightly , in her place . I thank she for the point that she raise , which be important and will be take into account in the review of the lesson learn . I congratulate the Minister on her appointment . do she agree that these event demonstrate that we be very far from be in a position to move to a cashless society ? give that the Chancellor be present , will the Minister confirm that her Government will do everything that they can to support the continue use of cash , which be so important to some of the most vulnerable people in society ? cash remain the second most commonly use form of payment in the UK , and we remain committed to ensure that individual and business have access to it . we have commit ourselves to provide 350 banking hub , so that cash remain available to they . it be a pleasure to welcome the Minister to her position , particularly as she be sit alongside the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I welcome the point make about resilience in public service , but can she assure I that similar effort be be make to ensure resilience of it in a defence context ? as I say in answer to an early question , as soon as this Government be elect , we take immediate step to start legislate to well protect all our public service and the third - party service that they use , and the cyber - security and resilience Bill will come before Parliament . I welcome the Minister to her position . congratulation be due to she : I understand that she be in charge of the Labour party ' s election campaign , so she can take some credit for its success . it be good to see a reward for endeavour , and for hard work . I say to she : well do . on airline , as 171 flight be cancel , some of my constituent be stick in London and could not get home to Belfast . when it come to bank , some of my constituent who be out shopping find that their credit card do not work because the system be down . when it come to the health system , the Department of Health in Northern Ireland say that hospital service and about two third of GP surgery face problem ; there have be , for instance , problem get patient into operate theatre and with access staff roster . the whole system be in absolute chaos . do the Minister not agree that the issue have underline the necessity of ensure that we be prepared for cyber - breakdown , whether cause by an intentional attack or cause unintentionally ? can she say something about our preparedness for situation such as this , and about our resilience in move forward from these technological problem , for the benefit of those in all part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . member for his kind comment . I be sorry to learn that some of his constituent be unable to secure flight home or gp appointment . in my statement , I speak about ensure that we expand our cyber - resilience , put regulator on a strong footing and obtain a clear picture of cyber - threat and how they can be deal with , and he raise important point in that regard . this be an extremely serious incident that I suspect may well be detectable in the next GDP figure that come out of the Office for National Statistics . I have two question . the hon . Lady say that she be " pleased to say that Government service , and the online service that the Government provide , be and remain largely unaffected . " could she tell we which service be affect , or be " largely " just a euphemism for " not affect at all " ? secondly , it be quite difficult for member to get a handle on the full impact and spread of this contagion . will she commit to lay before the House some kind of report detail the sector that be affect , how seriously they be affect — include government system — and whether and how there will be any resolution in the future ? obviously , we need to report to our constituent that these thing be less likely to occur in the future . I set out the impact that the incident have on , for example , gp service , but thing like the emergency service remain unaffected , as far as we be aware . we be learn the lesson from the incident , and I be sure that we will report back once that have be complete . like so many other , GPs in my constituency be affect on Friday , and I thank they for the work they do . even though patient be not able to get test result and appointment be miss , GPs manage to make sure that people receive the good care possible . what assurance can the Minister give I that the lesson learn from Friday will mean that patient can continue to receive care when they need it ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to the House , and I place on record my thank to GP surgery in Maidenhead , which do what they could to make sure that the disruption for patient be at a minimum . we will undertake the lesson learn exercise from this incident ; I hope that offer some reassurance to his constituent , as well as the Bill that will be go through Parliament . I be aware that the Minister be new to her role , so I will ask she to consider thing , rather than to commit to do thing . will she please consider continue with the annual statement to Parliament on civil contingency and risk , which the previous Government commit to ? when she look at the cyber - security and resilience Bill , will she consider assess whether there be widespread use of certain software or hardware that could cause mass outage in the event that it be affect , as happen with CrowdStrike ? I be not aware that we have see an analysis of that in previous output by the Cabinet Office , and it would be incredibly helpful for we to be aware of where those risk be . I thank the hon . member for those suggestion . I be very happy to consider the point that she have raise . I can not be the only member who think how proud Mr and Mrs Reeves must be today . debate on the Address [ 4th day ] Debate resume ( Order , 19 July ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . economy , Welfare and Public Services I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( h ) , table by the Leader of the Opposition . I beg to move an amendment , at the end of the question to add : " but humbly regret that there be no mention in the Gracious Speech of the improved economic condition the Government be inherit , with the fast record growth in the G7 , inflation at the Bank of England ' s target for the second month in a row , and unemployment at half the rate that it be in 2010 ; far regret that there be no mention of how to make necessary saving on welfare ; urge the Government to meet the commitment set out in the Labour Party ' s manifesto not to raise taxis on work people ; regret that the Gracious Speech fail to make a commitment not to use change to relief to raise taxis ; and call on the Government to increase income tax threshold to prevent income tax from be charge on the State Pension . " it be an important and rather painful part of our democracy that today I be a shadow Chancellor , respond to the King ' s Speech in exactly the same way that the new Chancellor respond to I just a few month ago , so I start by congratulate she , as well as Mr and Mrs Reeves . as the father of two girl , one of whom have her 10th birthday today , I warmly welcome the smashing of a glass ceiling by Britain ' s first female Chancellor . as I say on election night , she have lead the Labour party on a difficult journey , which have change it for the well . her stated commitment to fiscal responsibility , stability and economic growth have be consistent and , I be sure , not always easy . unfortunately for we , her success in hold the line mean that we face rather a lot of Labour mp on the Government Benches , but I wish she well in her new role . I also commend to the right hon . Lady the superb Treasury official she now inherit , and put on record my gratitude to they the excellent work they do for I , stay up in the middle of the night ahead of fiscal event , engage in tense negotiation with spend Departments — and occasionally , it have to be say , with no . 10 — bring I endless flat white and Pret lunch to keep I go and , most of all , make my family feel welcome in the goldfish bowl that be Downing Street . it be part of the magic of democracy that those same official have seamlessly transfer their allegiance from I to she , and I know that they will serve she extremely well . in opposition , we will not oppose for its own sake , and there be a number of Bills in the King ' s Speech that we welcome . the right hon . Lady be right to focus on growth , and the improvement on planning will build on many reform introduce by the last government , include the 110 growth measure I introduce in last year ' s autumn statement . any boost to house building be also welcome . we deliver 1 million home in the last Parliament , and she will soon find out that if she be to deliver 1 . 5 million , she will not be able to duck reform environmental regulation — a change that Labour block in the last Parliament but will deliver an extra 100 , 000 home . I caution she not to over - rely on bring back top - down target . in the end , we will build more house only if we change attitude to new housing , and that be unlikely to happen if unpopular target be steamroller through local community . we will also look carefully at the right hon . Lady ' s Budget Responsibility Bill . we be proud that a Conservative Government set up the Office for Budget Responsibility , and I commend the work of Richard Hughes and his team . we do not always agree , but in the end , that be the point of an independent watchdog . we all understand the politic of a Bill that allow the Government to make endless reference to the mini Budget , but if the right hon . Lady be really commit to fiscal responsibility alongside growth , I hope that she will today confirm that she will not fiddle with the five - year debt rule to allow increase debt through the back door . we — and , it have to be say , market — will be monitor the overall level of debt very carefully to make sure that that do not happen . I also hope that she will commission the OBR to do 10 - year forecast of our long - term growth rate rather than five - year forecast , as at present , in order to bake long - term decision make into Treasury thinking . the shadow Chancellor be talk just now about fiscal responsibility . during the election campaign , he commit to a series of tax cut , but I notice that yesterday on Laura Kuenssberg ' s show he say that it would not have be possible for he to proceed with those tax cut . what have change , and why do he make that commitment during the election campaign , know full well that he could not afford to carry it out ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that intervention , because it allow I to explain why he be completely mistaken in what he be say . we offer a set of carefully and fully fund tax cut — unlike the £ 38 . 5 billion of unfunded spending commitment that come from the Labour party — but we always say that they would be bring in over time over the next Parliament . we do not make a commitment that they would come in immediately , and indeed they would not have . we would have do it in a responsible way . when it come to dubious claim , the new Chancellor herself have be make some that do not withstand scrutiny . she say , for example , that the economy would have be £ 140 billion big if we have match the average OECD growth rate , but she know that the OECD be a diverse group of 38 country , include many with economy very different from our own , such as Turkey , Mexico or Luxembourg . a much more meaningful comparison be with other similar G7 economy , which show that since 2010 we have grow fast than France , Italy , Germany and Japan . indeed , the International Monetary Fund say that thank to difficult measure take by the last Conservative Government , we will grow fast than any of those four country , not just in the short term but over the next six year . one reason for that be our record on attract investment . since 2010 , greenfield foreign direct investment have be high in the UK than anywhere in the world except the United States and China . in the last year alone , Nissan , Jaguar Land Rover , Tata , BMW Mini , Google and Microsoft have all vote for the UK with their dollar , not least because of cut in business taxation , such as full expensing , introduce by the last Government . if the Chancellor now look for back - door way to increase business taxation , as many fear , she will risk the UK ' s attractiveness to foreign investor , of which she be now the beneficiary . that investment be very important to my constituent in Stockton North , where many company be poise to make billion of pound of industrial investment . they tell I that they prize economic stability above all else , so will the right hon . Gentleman now commit to support the Budget Responsibility Bill to give those investor the security they need ? yes , we be minded to support the Bill , subject to have have a close look at it , because we think it be perfectly sensible . whether it be completely necessary be a different question , but it be perfectly sensible . we have grave concern about some element of the King ' s Speech , with a Times editorial this week describe some of its Bills as " a dose of traditional socialist dogma " . Tony Blair come to office have remove the old clause IV of the Labour party constitution , because he know that state - run business be rarely successful and usually end up be bail out by the taxpayer . last week , with their railway and energy plan , the Government bring forward more nationalisation than Blair ever do — indeed , more than any Government in modern time . if the Chancellor really care about fiscal responsibility , she should beware . the reason why union like publicly own utility be that they give they more leverage on pay and more ability to demand bail - out . unlearn the lesson of history will mean more strike and big bill for the taxpayer . an even big concern for business be the impact on job of Labour ' s new deal for worker . we have see the creation of almost 4 million job since 2010 , which be nearly 800 job for every single day that conservative Governments be in office . the president of the Confederation of British Industry describe the UK as a " job - creation factory " but , like many other , he express concern that the Deputy Prime Minister ' s new labour law could put that at risk . day one right sound attractive , but employer fear they will mean a flood of tribunal claim , mean it be safe not to offer a job at all . that be why the Federation of Small Businesses respond to the King ' s Speech by say that company be worried about increase cost and risk . in the end , french - style labour law will lead to french level of unemployment , which be nearly double our own — indeed , they be close to what they be when the last Labour Government be in office . by contrast , the Conservatives nearly halve unemployment over the last 14 year , and it would be a tragedy for work family up and down the country if the new Government turn the clock back . finally , the most dubious claim of all be this nonsense about the Government have the bad economic inheritance since the second world war , which everybody know be just a pretext for long - plan tax rise . People can see what nonsense this be by simply compare it with the last time we have a change of Government in 2010 . inflation be 3 . 4 % , compare with 2 % today . unemployment be 8 % , compare with 4 . 4 % today . growth be forecast then to be among the slow in the G7 , compare with the fast today . instead of an economy in which market and the pound be face meltdown , the Chancellor have inherit an economy in which the Office for National Statistics have say that growth be " go gangbuster . " that have be back up by even more datum since the election . may ' s GDP figure show that Britain ' s growth be double the rate predict by economist , and the fast in more than two year . new figure from S & P show that , in February , british business be among the most optimistic in the world — top of the league again , accord to the ONS . inflation have remain at its 2 % target level . in her BBC interview yesterday , the Chancellor gloss over those figure , put on the most shocked expression she could muster , to pretend that public finance be bad than she expect . but the root cause of the pressure on public finance — £ 400 billion in pandemic support and £ 94 billion in cost of live support — be never a secret . indeed , the Labour party support those measure and , in some case , call for we to go far . nor be the difficult decision we have to take to pay for they a secret either . when we have to increase borrowing , increase tax and reduce spending plan in the autumn statement of 2022 , Labour do not oppose we . like all Chancellors , she face fiscal challenge : welcome to the job . but that job be a whole lot easy because , face with an economic crisis two year ago , conservative take decision that her predecessor Labour Government duck completely after the financial crisis . that be why she have a deficit of 4 . 4 % this year compare with 10 . 3 % leave behind for the Conservatives in 2010 . she do not just compare her inheritance to 2010 ; she claim to have the bad inheritance since the second world war . be she really say that she face condition bad than Geoffrey Howe in 1979 , with a winter of discontent , stagflation , an 83 % top rate of tax and a Labour Government who go with a begging bowl to be bail out by the IMF ? the Chancellor know perfectly well that that claim be nonsense , otherwise why , in her first week , would she announce £ 7 . 3 billion of spending on her national wealth fund , without a spending review , a budget or any external validation from the OBR ? as Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies say , thank to the OBR the nation ' s book be " wide open " and " fully transparent " , so pretend thing be bad than expect " really win ' t wash . " as she establish her reputation , it be surely unwise to base her big central argument on a claim so patently ridiculous . but we all know exactly why the Chancellor be do it . she want to lay the ground for tax rise she have be plan all along , which lead to two major concern . first , she say she no . 1 mission be growth , but all around the world , evidence suggest country with high taxis tend to grow more slowly . low taxis , when fund properly , boost growth , as we see with full expensing and the national insurance cut last year , both of which the OBR confirm add to our gdp . however , keep taxis down be hard work . I see the number the Chancellor have see just a few week ago , and the official advice be clear : with public sector pay restraint , productivity plan such as those we announce in the Budget , and welfare reform , it be perfectly possible to balance the book without tax rise . it be not easy — government never be — but not impossible . yet all those three thing — pay restraint , productivity improvement and welfare reform — be glaringly omit from the King ' s Speech . instead , she have choose an easy path : what Labour party source tell the Guardian be a " doctor ' s mandate " to raise taxis . the Chancellor have rule out raise income tax , national insurance and vat , but she should not think for one second that other tax rise will not impact work people . capital gain tax destroy the pension people build up over their lifetime ; business tax rise be pass on to customer , lead to high bill ; and taxis on bank and energy company lead to few company operate in the UK , a low tax take and less money for public service such as the NHS . that be the big contradiction in the new programme — a Government who say they want the fast growth in the G7 but , in the very same breath , plan tax rise that will make that growth hard , if not impossible , to achieve . even if such an approach be misconceive , it be none the less a legitimate choice for a govern party . what be not acceptable be , just 18 day after the election , to be lay the ground for tax rise after the Chancellor promise we 50 time in the election campaign that she have no plan to raise they . every Labour Government in history have raise taxis and raise spending . if she want to do the same , she should have have the courage to make the case for that before the election . instead , she be soften we up for a colossal u - turn that will lead to low growth , less money for public service and massive public anger , which be why I commend to the House the amendment in the Opposition ' s name . it be a pleasure to open today ' s King ' s Speech debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government . I always enjoy debate with the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , though I must say I rather prefer do so from this side of the Chamber . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I appreciate the shadow Chancellor ' s generous word on my appointment and also his tribute to official , who I can confirm be indeed first rate . it have be more than 14 year since a Labour Government be in office for a state opening of Parliament — 14 year of chaos , 14 year of economic irresponsibility , 14 year of waste opportunity and 14 year since there have be a Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer stand at this Dispatch Box . today , I pay tribute to my most recent Labour predecessor , the late Lord Darling . he be an outstanding Chancellor , a kind man and a good friend . Mr Speaker , it be also the very first time that there have be a female Chancellor of the Exchequer . on my arrival at the Treasury , I learn that there be some debate about when the first Chancellor be appoint . it could have be 800 year ago , when one Ralph de Leicester be give the title of " Chancellor of the Exchequer " for the first time , or , 900 year ago , when " Henry the Treasurer " be reference in the Domesday Book . it could even have be 1 , 000 year ago , when Alfred the Great be in effect the first Master of the Mint . whichever it be , I be sure the whole House would agree on one thing — that we have wait far too long for a woman to be the Chancellor of the Exchequer . [ HON . member : " hear , hear . " ] I stand here today proud , but also deeply conscious of the responsibility that I now have : a responsibility to woman across the country whose work be too often undervalue ; and a responsibility to every young woman and girl , who should know that there be no ceiling on their ambition and no limit on their potential . seven Tory man have stand at that Dispatch Box over the past 14 year and the result have be an economic crisis , crumble public service and a cost of living crisis . can we expect a change of approach from the new female Chancellor of the Exchequer ? one thing be that I hope to be in post for a bit long than some of my predecessor . as tempting as it be , I do not intend to conduct a full sweep of the past 1 , 000 year of economic history from the Dispatch Box today — [ hon . member : " ah " ! ] I be sorry . however , we must talk about the past 14 year . I warn that whoever win the general election would inherit the bad set of circumstance since the second world war , and I have see nothing to change my mind since I arrive at the Treasury . I will update the House on our public spending inheritance before Parliament rise for recess . I hear what the shadow Chancellor say from the Dispatch Box now and on the television yesterday , which be to claim that I should be grateful for what he have leave we . that be unbelievable , because he know the truth and be now try to rewrite history . in do so , he have remind the british people why the Conservatives lose the election . they be out of touch , delude and unable to defend the indefensible . in the week ahead , it will become clear what those in his party do . they store up problem , fail to take the tough decision and then they run away , leave it to we — the Labour Government — to pick up the piece and clear up their mess . today , I want to focus on one thing above all else : economic growth . since 2010 , Conservative Chancellor after Conservative Chancellor , include the now shadow Chancellor , stress the importance of growth . we have have more growth plan than we have have Prime Ministers or Chancellors , and that be quite a lot , but growth require more than talk ; it require action . like so much else with the previous Administration , when we scratch beneath the surface the fa ç ade crumble , and all that be leave be the evidence of 14 year of failure . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her appointment ; she be make an excellent speech . Friday ' s ONS report show that public sector borrowing be 25 % high than forecast . do she agree that that underline why it be so important to have a fully cost and fully fund manifesto to restore confidence in the public finance , and that it be a surprise that certain other party do not follow the same route ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he speak powerfully , and I pay tribute to his work in the last Parliament , particularly around education and skill . this be a really important point . for I , the most important page of the manifesto that we stand on be the three grey page at the back of it , which set out all our spending commitment and how they would be pay for . that be important , because to earn the trust of the electorate party must be really clear about where the money will come from and what they will use it for . that be what we do in our manifesto , and it be what we will do in Government . the shadow Chancellor make some point about GDP , compare ours with that of other country , but since 2010 UK GDP per capita — that be the most important measure , because it reflect how people feel and the money that they have — have grow slow than the G7 average , slow than the EU average , and slow than the OECD average . treasury analysis that I request when I become Chancellor show that , have the UK economy grow at the average OECD rate these last 14 year , our economy would be over £ 140 billion big today . that could have bring in an additional £ 58 billion of tax revenue in the last year alone — money that could have be use for our school , hospital and other vital public service . growth be about more than just line on a chart ; it be about the money in people ' s pocket , and Treasury analysis show that achieve the rate of growth of similar economy would have be worth more than £ 5 , 000 for every household in Britain . the shadow Chancellor stand up and once again claim that he bequeath a great legacy . seriously ? the last Parliament be the first on record where living standard be low at the end than at the start . the high level of debt since the 1960 , the high tax burden in 70 year , mortgage through the roof , the economy only just recover after last year ' s recession , economic inactivity number last week show a further rise , and borrowing number last week show over £ 3 billion more borrowing than the OBR expect — that be the Conservatives ' legacy . if that be a good inheritance , I would hate to see what a bad one look like . I think deep down the shadow Chancellor know that . in fact , he do know it . yesterday , the shadow Chancellor admit what we all know : that the manifesto that he campaign on be undeliverable , and the money for the tax cut that he promise simply be not there . if he want to show the country that his party have listen , and learn from its mistake , he would have use his speech this afternoon to apologise , but he do not , and that tell we everything that we need to know about this conservative party : party first , country second ; political self - interest ahead of the national interest ; irresponsibility before the public good . let I say this to the conservative party , " we will not stop hold you responsible for the damage that you have do to our economy and to our country . " never again will we allow the Conservatives to crash our economy . they fail this country . they shy away from tough choice , and we will not repeat their mistake . it fall on we , this new Labour Government , to fix the foundation so that we can rebuild Britain and make every part of our country well off . we will govern through action , not word , and we have already begin to do just that , because there be no time to waste . Less than 72 hour after I be appoint as Chancellor , I put growth at the very heart of our work . work alongside my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , I set out reform to our planning system — reform that the conservative party do not deliver in 14 year . our reform restore mandatory target to build the home that we desperately need , end the absurd ban on onshore wind to deliver home - grow cheap energy and recover planning appeal for project that sit on the desk of Ministers in the last Parliament for far too long . those be tough decision that the conservative party already oppose . why be that my first act as Chancellor ? because get our economy grow be urgent , and this King ' s Speech show that we be get to work . on the matter of mandatory housing target , have be a constituency MP for 23 year and see they try in a number of different way , may I humbly offer the Chancellor this , with all sincerity ? there be such a thing as good development , but it only work if it be something that we do with people and not to people . this stalinist approach will not work . I have be compare to a lot of thing , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I have never be compare to Joseph Stalin . our approach be a brownfield - first approach . we will reintroduce those mandatory target ; of course it be up to local authority and local community to decide where the housing should be build , but the answer can not always be no . if the answer be always no , we will continue as we be , with home ownership decline and mortgage and rent go through the roof . on the Government side of the House , we be not willing to tolerate that . this King ' s Speech show that we be get to work . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister set out , our programme for government be found on principle of security , fairness and opportunity . our no . 1 mission be to secure sustain economic growth in our great country through a new partnership between Government , business and work people that prioritise wealth creation for all of our community . we will fix the foundation of our economy so we can rebuild Britain and make every part of our country well off . there be a number of important piece of legislation in the King ' s Speech that will help we to grow the economy . in this speech , I will focus on three in particular : the Budget Responsibility Bill to restore economic stability , the national wealth fund Bill to drive investment and the pension scheme Bill to reform our economy . those Bills speak not just to our programme for government , but also to trust in politic . they show that we will govern as we campaign and that we will meet our promise to the british people . in the election campaign , I say the first step we would take would be to restore economic stability , because stability be the precondition to a healthy , grow economy . it be how we keep taxis , inflation and mortgage as low as possible . after year of irresponsibility , we be put our economy on firm ground once again . we introduce the new Budget Responsibility Bill on Thursday to deliver on our manifesto commitment to introduce a fiscal lock so that I can keep an iron grip on our country ' s finance . the Chancellor and I sit on the Treasury Committee together many year ago , and she will know from our time together that economics be as much art as it be science . give that she be effectively give a veto over economic policy to the OBR through this Bill , she must recognise that we need to understand what the people in the OBR believe , what their theory of economic be and what principle they attach themselves to . what further scrutiny of the chair of the OBR and the people do the forecast will be available to this House , give that effectively they will be co - Chancellor with she during the next few year ? the Treasury Committee , as the right hon . Gentleman know , can call in the chair and other member of the Office for Budget Responsibility , but his comment show exactly why we need this Bill : so that never again can we have a repeat of the mini Budget . the Bill will require every announcement that make significant permanent change to tax and spending to be subject to an independent assessment by the Office for Budget Responsibility . why ? because unfunded , reckless commitment do not just threaten our public finance ; they threaten people ' s income and they threaten people ' s mortgage . we see that in the wake of the mini - Budget preside over by the former Member for South West Norfolk . I understand that she have take umbrage in recent day at the idea that that episode be disastrous . well , if any Conservative Member would like to dispute that fact today , I would be more than happy to give way . [ hon . member : " come on then ! " ] they cheer it at the time , but they be not cheer it now , and I do not imagine that they would put it on their leaflet . the Conservatives should be ashamed of what they do because people up and down the country be still pay the price for the chaos that they cause . we say : never again . the Budget Responsibility Bill will enshrine that commitment in law . during the pandemic , the friend and family of Conservatives be award contract for work that be never fulfil . my constituent would love to know how we can get their money back , perhaps through the covid corruption commissioner . I enjoy campaign for my hon . friend in York Outer , and it be great to see he in his place today . stability mean a tough set of fiscal rule , but it also mean spend public money wisely , as he say . the last government hike taxis while allow waste and inefficiency to spiral out of control . at no time be that more evident than during the pandemic , especially when it come to personal protective equipment . the former Prime Minister , when he be Chancellor , sign cheque after cheque after cheque for billion of pound - worth of contract that do not deliver for the NHS when it need it — that be simply unacceptable . today , I can announce that I be begin the process of appoint a covid corruption commissioner to get back what be owe to the british people . that money , which be today in the hand of fraudster , belong in our public service , and we want it back . the commissioner will report to I , work with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , and their report will be present to Parliament for all member to see . I will not tolerate waste . I will treat taxpayer ' money with respect and return stability to our public finance . the second Bill I will speak to be the national wealth fund Bill . we know that economic stability be vital for investor and for business — the small business look to grow ; the global business look to expand in the UK ; the entrepreneur look to take their first step . to support they , stability must sit alongside investment . on the effective use of public fund , be the Chancellor aware not only of the alleged corruption in the way that covid aid be distribute , but of the large number of tax loophole in this economy ? for example , in Cornwall , over £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money be hand out to holiday home owner not only through covid aid but through the small business rate relief scheme and other tax loophole . at the same time , only a third of that amount have go into social housing for first - time user . will she look at the whole issue of parity in the way public fund be use , to support people who need housing ? I welcome the hon . member back to this place . I enjoy spar with he in my early day in Parliament , and it be great to see he back in the House . he be absolutely right that we need to get value for money for all tax incentive . I will ensure that the Treasury and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government look at the change that he suggest . the last government ' s record on investment be dismal . we now sit behind every single member of the G7 when it come to business investment as a share of GDP . that be not an abstract economic problem . weak investment hold back productivity and hurt living standard ; it leave household poorer and wage lower . the King ' s Speech deal directly with the need to unlock private investment through a new national wealth fund Bill . that will be support by an injection of capital , part fund by an increase to the windfall tax on oil and gas giant . it will make transformative investment in industry of the future , such as carbon capture and storage , and green hydrogen . it will mobilise billion of pound - worth of additional private sector investment in our industrial heartland and coastal community while generate a return for taxpayer . the national wealth fund will work with local partner include mayor , as well as the devolve Administrations in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , to develop an investment offer that meet the need of all our nation and region . it will simplify a complex landscape of support for business today , align key institution such as the UK Infrastructure Bank and the British Business Bank under the one banner of the national wealth fund . I heartily applaud what my right hon . friend be say about the renew windfall tax . will she also look at the fact that , in this country , we have the low basic rate of tax on oil and gas company anywhere in the world ? the average be 74 % ; in this country , it be 38 % . as my hon . friend know , we commit in our manifesto to a three percentage point uplift to the current energy profit levy , which we will use to fund the national wealth fund . that fund will power job and prosperity in all part of our country , and that work be already well under way . in my first week in office , I welcome the report of the national wealth fund taskforce , and I thank the former Governor of the Bank of England , Mark Carney , and the whole taskforce for their outstanding work . this Bill will put the national wealth fund on a statutory footing with clear objective , crowd in private investment to create wealth across Britain . under the Conservatives , business and work people be hold back by a complete and abject failure to build the new home that my constituent in Ealing Southall be cry out for , the laboratory space that will provide the job of the future , or the national infrastructure need for business and work people to prosper . will my right hon . friend assure this House that , under her chancellorship , we will finally get Britain build again ? I welcome the election of my hon . friend in Ealing Southall — I think her constituent and the whole House can see what a strong advocate she will be for her local community . she be absolutely right : we have to get Britain build again . we have to build the home and the transport , energy and digital infrastructure that our country desperately need . I thank the Chancellor for give I the chance to intervene . when it come to rebuild and the house building programme that she have suggest should happen , in the paper today , it be suggest that people on a wage of £ 70 , 000 can not get a mortgage . in Northern Ireland , those on a small wage can not get a mortgage either , so can I ask the Chancellor this direct and hopefully positive question , which will hopefully receive a positive answer : what can she do to improve access to mortgage for those who want to own their accommodation , rather than rent it ? what can she do to make sure that everyone in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can benefit , as she have clearly say they will ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . one of the big challenge people face with get a mortgage be build up the deposit . that be why we have commit to a mortgage guarantee scheme , to help those people who can not rely on the bank of mum and dad to get on the housing ladder . that be a really important commitment , as be our commitment to build the home : unless we build more home , home ownership will continue to go backwards , as it do over the past few year . alongside stability and investment in our economy must come reform , because deliver economic growth require tough choice . it mean take on vest interest and confront issue that politician have too often avoid . the last Government refuse to engage with those choice , and refuse to level with the british people about what be require . this government will be different . we have already demonstrate that through a series of reform to our planning system , and be bring forward further legislation in the King ' s Speech to get Britain building . today , I want to focus on another area of our economy where reform be vital : our pension scheme . People across our country work hard to save for the future ; they want a well , more secure retirement with the most generous pension possible . at the same time , british business with high growth potential need capital to support their expansion . pension fund be at the heart of this . there will soon be over £ 800 billion of asset in define contribution pension scheme , but for too long , those asset have not be target towards UK market . that have impact british saver , and it have impact british business . the last Government also say that this be a problem , and I welcome that acknowledgement , but they never introduce the legislation need to make the change . we believe in deed , not word , so we will strengthen investment from private pension provider by bring forward the pension scheme Bill in the King ' s Speech . it will boost pension pot by over £ 11 , 000 through a new and improved value for money framework . through an investment shift in DC scheme , just a 1 % shift in asset allocation could deliver £ 8 billion of new productive investment into the UK economy . to ensure that the Bill be as strong as possible , I be today launch a pension investment review , lead by the first ever joint Commons Minister appoint between the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions — my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , the Pensions Minister . this will include a review of the local government pension scheme , the seventh large pension fund in the world , to ensure it be get the good value from the saving of nearly 7 million public sector worker , the majority of whom be woman and the majority of whom be low - pay . they deserve a pension that be work for they . together , these reform will kick - start economic growth by unlock investment that have be tie up for too long . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I have already give way to the right hon . Gentleman . order . could I just urge the House to think about intervention ? there be a very long list of member who want to speak and lot of people who want to make their maiden speech , and it would be great if they could all get in . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be pleased to know that I will not apprise the House of every Bill that support economic growth in the King ' s Speech . needless to say , there be many more — from the english devolution Bill to transfer power back into the hand of local community to the employment right Bill to make work pay , and the great british Energy Bill to take back control of our country ' s energy and create new job across the United Kingdom . grow our economy flow through almost every word of this Address . the british people put their trust in we on 4 July to fix the foundation of our economy , to rebuild Britain and to make every part of our great country well off . I do not take that trust for grant . we will not let people down , and I be ready to deliver the change that we need . I know it will take time and I know it will require hard work , but we be already get on with the job by end a reckless , chaotic approach to economic management , by put politic back in the service of work people and by make economic growth our fundamental mission . I commend the Address to the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair . it be a real pleasure to contribute to the debate on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , not just because I be speak on behalf of so many more of they than I use to , but because it give I an opportunity to welcome the Chancellor of the Exchequer to her place and express my personal congratulation on become the first woman in the UK ' s history to hold the position . I be personally delighted . I spend many year work in banking and finance , and I know how male - dominate those industry still be . I wish she well in her new role and look forward to work with she over the come Parliament . the Liberal Democrats will be vigorous in scrutinise her plan , but we will always work in the national interest , and I can assure she of the support of the Liberal Democrats on all those matter on which we can agree . I be sure that one of the thing on which we can certainly agree be that the right hon . Lady and her colleague have receive a dismal inheritance from the depart Conservative Administration . the number reveal a dispiriting picture of low growth , high interest rate and a record fall in living standard deliver by an out - of - touch and incompetent conservative party that take people for grant for year . our constituent see this situation reflect in the increase in their mortgage payment , the hike in their energy bill and the price they pay at the till for their weekly shop . they see it in public service that be in a state of crisis and an NHS that be fail to deliver the care they need . the Liberal Democrats welcome the seriousness with which this King ' s Speech focus on stability , reinveste in our crippled public service and grow the economy . we welcome measure such as the introduction of an industrial strategy council to co - ordinate policy on economic growth , but the immediate and press problem that our constituent be face in their everyday life can not just be address by centralised , top - down institution run from Whitehall . our economy need to grow from the bottom up , bring prosperity to every community , take away the barrier to entry for small business and enable individual across the country to make the most of their skill and talent . the Liberal Democrats want urgent measure introduce to give immediate support to family and small business . while out on the doorstep during the general election campaign , I and my 71 colleague hear a clear message from our constituent that their big priority be fix the NHS . we be here because we promise to fight hard for a well nhs for our constituent and for community across the country . that be why we be call for the Chancellor to immediately draw up a Budget for health and social care . we can not deliver economic growth without fix the crisis in our NHS and in social care . nhs waiting list be at an all - time high ; it can take week to see a gp and it be now almost impossible to see an NHS dentist . everyone deserve access to the care they need when they need it and where they need it . a successful health and social care system be fundamental to a fair society and our country ' s prosperity . the failure of the Conservative Administration lead to a dramatic increase in the number of people experience long - term sickness condition and the Liberal Democrats will continue to push for public service investment to help reduce NHS waiting list to get people back to work . do my hon . friend agree that reform social care should be one of the most urgent priority of this Government ? the Royal Cornwall hospital NHS trust recently announce that £ 26 million a year be spend on patient who be medically well but unable to be discharge due to a lack of social care package . my hon . friend be right , and it be wonderful to see he in his place ; the people of North Cornwall will be well serve by his championing of social care , which be front and centre of the Liberal Democrats manifesto in the general election . the most direct way to alleviate poverty be to increase the money pay to the poor household . we know that our fellow citizen who be live in the severe poverty be likely to be family with small child . grow up in poverty affect child ' s educational chance and be likely to impact their physical and mental health , hold they back from achieve their true potential . take immediate step to tackle child poverty should therefore be a priority . we believe that remove the two - child cap be the most cost - effective way of immediately lift 500 , 000 child out of poverty , while help to make cost more manageable for parent . that would have a direct benefit to family struggle with the cost of living crisis . not only do we have a moral obligation to change this unnecessary policy but it be the most cost - effective way of alleviate poverty with a broad range of economic advantage , include support more parent back into the workforce . so I urge the Chancellor of the Exchequer to remove the two - child limit on social security payment in her Budget to ensure that all family who need it receive immediate reassurance and support . but family of all size be suffer under the cost of live crisis and desperately need help . our school be increasingly have to battle the effect of poverty to ensure child be able to attend school and have the good chance of reach their potential , and too many child be distract from their lesson because they have not have enough to eat . the Liberal Democrats set out plan in our manifesto for free school meal for all child live in poverty , with an ambition to extend they to all child once public finance allow . the Liberal Democrats be call on the Government to consider fund free school meal as a priority to alleviate the pressure on the finance of the family who be struggle the most . this will also contribute to positive educational outcome that will benefit we all in the future . the liberal Democrats welcome many of the measure in the King ' s Speech that aim to boost economic growth , and we support the Government ' s objective to make that a priority . we welcome move to boost stability and provide strategic leadership via an industrial strategy council and to increase investment through pension reform . however , our small business and local high street need immediate support , and the Government need to do more to ensure economic growth can reach every part of the United Kingdom and that small business and entrepreneur can quickly rediscover the confidence that they need to invest after year of conservative chaos and mismanagement . liberal Democrats want to see more direct support which will impact local community business . we believe we need swift action specifically to tackle high energy cost and we continue to call for business rate reform . a new Parliament present a real opportunity to begin to properly rebuild our trading relationship with Europe . from speak with many small business owner I understand the pressure and limitation that current trade deal with Europe pose to business . we must tackle the arduous legislation around import and export good , which significantly limit the opportunity for small business to grow . the Liberal Democrats have a comprehensive plan to rebuild trust and co - operation with Europe , and we understand that to be a crucial aspect of the support that business urgently need . we welcome the Government ' s acknowledgment of the need to reform the apprenticeship levy . however , we would like to see they go far and replace the current scheme with a broad and more flexible skill and training levy . we hope that the Government will join we in encourage the take - up of apprenticeship , particularly for young people , and support our call to guarantee that they be pay at least the national minimum wage by scrap the low apprentice rate . we understand the broad economic benefit of support the development of skilled worker and be optimistic about the advantage that can bring to business . the recent year of chaos and irresponsible conservative administration have leave a substantial challenge for the new Government to tackle . we do not underestimate the work lie ahead to get the economy back up and run , to nurture an environment that will allow business to thrive and to restore the public service that provide care for people when they need it . my liberal Democrat colleague and I will hold the new Government to account to ensure that they deliver on the promise outline by his Majesty on Wednesday as we work to rectify the damage do by the Conservatives : rebuild our economy , support individual community and small business , and urgently invest in health and social care . rise — the dilemma we face be self - evident : many hon . and right hon . member want to speak , and we will do all we can to get in as many people as possible . unfortunately , there will now be a five - minute limit on speech . the clock will not be use for maiden speech , but we ask Members to keep an eye on the time . it be an honour to speak in this King ' s Speech debate , and a privilege to have hear the first female Chancellor in our history deliver such a remarkable opening salvo . I will say a word not just about the King ' s Speech itself , but the strategy behind it . when the Chancellor and my right hon . friend the Prime Minister launch our manifesto , there be a clear ambition at its heart to ignite a revolution in wealth creation in this country not just for some , but for all . that strategy be absolutely right , because among the bad of our inheritance be the scandal — the moral emergency — of the inequality of wealth that now scar our country . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I could take a walk this afternoon down to a coffee bar call Shot in Mayfair , which would serve we coffee for £ 265 a shot . we could go next door to a restaurant Aragawa , where they serve steak for £ 900 apiece . some , if they be lucky enough , could book a night at the Raffles hotel for £ 25 , 000 . these be extraordinary price , but not unremarkable in a country that now have the high sale of Rolls - royce , superyacht and private jet . this absurdity of affluence sit alongside a country where , on the last figure , more than 1 , 000 people die homeless , ten of thousand of people be die from the disease of poverty , and 2 . 1 million people can put food on the table only because of the tender mercy of food bank . that be the inequality of wealth bequeath to this Government . it be well illustrate perhaps by one figure : the wealth of the top 1 % have grow by 31 time the wealth of everybody else over the past 14 year . that be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor be right to say that there have to be a revolution in wealth creation in this country — not just for some but for all . the measure that my right hon . friend have set out be the right one : a plan for growth and a plan to devolve economic power out of the paralysis of Westminster and Whitehall and down to mayor and local council . alongside that be a revolution in planning law , infrastructure law and skill finance . I urge my friend on the Government Front Bench to maximise the amount of power hold locally , because it be local people and local leader who know good how to grow our economy . if we have a grow economy , the key be then to ensure that growth be fairly share . that be why the employment right Bill be so important . as my right hon . Friend say , there have not be growth in living standard for more than 14 year . that be why we need to ensure that there be a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work . alongside that , the draft equality Bill be extremely important , and I urge my right hon . friend to go far and to use the consolidation of pension fund to inaugurate an era of civic capitalism in this country , where we use the combine £ 2 trillion - worth of pension saving to encourage business that be good , not business that be bad , such as those that she reveal when she be a brilliant Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , or the scandal that we expose in the last Parliament with McDonald ' s , Asda and other firm behave in a way reminiscent , frankly , of victorian capitalism . once we have begin raise income , we must help people build well . that be why the change to the housing market that my right hon . friend propose be so important . we can underpin that and maximise investment into the infrastructure of this country by ensure that there be a national wealth fund , but I would go far , and I ask she to look at how we can put together not just the national wealth fund but the Crown estate fund , which be set for reform under a Bill in the King ' s Speech . we could go a step far and review the whole portfolio of investment hold by the Government and by UK Government Investments . the last Government make some pretty strange investment during covid , include , I understand , buy share in Bolton Wanderers , share in a bespoke boutique whisky company , and even , it be say in some newspaper , share in a strange firm that organise international sex party call Killing Kittens . I say to my friend on the Government Front Bench that it be time we have a Domesday Book that consolidated asset in this country . let we look at what we need and what we do not . crucially , let we look at how we maximise dividend go to ordinary work people in this country to help they build wealth for themselves . I conclude with this : on the Government Benches , we have long know that we only deliver and maximise freedom and opportunity for people in this country , and make those freedom and opportunity real , if there be security . there be no security without wealth , which be why the ambition that my right hon . friend set out not simply to build a wealthy democracy but a democracy of wealth , be the right one . may I start by add my congratulation to the Chancellor on be the first woman to hold that office in the history of our country ? at this rate , the Labour party might even have a female Prime Minister some time this century . I also thank the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) for everything he do while in office . in particular , I thank the voter of West Worcestershire for return I here for the fifth time . I be one of those who be here in 2010 . it be ironic that I should be follow the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , because he be the one who leave that famous note , " I ' m sorry : there be no money leave . " if people want to know what a bad economic legacy look like , I be here in 2010 when we receive one from the Labour party . the deficit be over 10 % and rise and unemployment be over 8 % . inflation be nearly twice its target , and the banking system have just collapse and have to be bail out by taxpayer . we can contrast that with the economic legacy of 2024 that the new Government inherit . despite the economic cost of the pandemic and the energy crisis , the UK be enjoy the fast growth in the G7 . unemployment be now half the rate it be in 2010 . inflation be back on target . we have a well - capitalise banking system , almost completely out of taxpayer ’ hand . wage be now rise fast than inflation . we be the fourth - large exporter in the world . member do not have to take my word for it ; they can take the word of the International Monetary Fund , which in a recently publish report say that " the UK economy be approach a soft landing " , with " growth recover fast than expect … inflation have fall fast than be envisage … the banking system remain healthy " . so I approach the economic measure in the King ' s Speech with a degree of trepidation , because they come at a time when the economy be back on track . while I agree that " secure economic growth " be a fundamental mission of government , I would add the word " non - inflationary " . I have look and look through this King ' s Speech , and I can not see any measure that magic up economic growth . growth do not just happen because it be write into the King ' s Speech . in my time as Chair of the Treasury Committee , we have the opportunity to have a private session with the IMF . it be interesting to observe that many of the measure put forward by the Government in the King ' s Speech be in the IMF ' s prescription for the UK economy . reform planning and building on our beloved green belt be from the IMF , as be strengthen the role of the Office for Budget Responsibility and crowd in private capital on net zero project via a national wealth fund . what else do the IMF want ? well , colleague may not be surprised to learn that it also want to see more taxis . it do not quite say it like that — it call it " close tax loophole " or " mobilise additional revenue " . some of the measure we hear about in our private session with the IMF be as follow . the first be set capital gain tax rate in line with income tax rate . I hope that Ministers will rule that one out . the second be subject the sale of primary residence to capital gain tax . I hope that Ministers will rule that one out . the third be end inheritance tax loophole for pension , family business and farm . I hope that Ministers will rule that one out . the fourth be revalue all of England ' s home for council tax , and especially those over £ 320 , 000 in value . I hope that Ministers will rule that one out . the IMF also like the idea of road pricing ; I hope that Ministers will rule that one out . it also want to bring forward considerably the date at which the state pension age increase . give that those be all tax measure that the IMF recommend , I be sure that the Chancellor be begin to contemplate they . when the Government respond to today ' s debate , I hope that they will specifically rule those thing out , because the tax rise that the Government admit to already — the pensioner tax , the tax on education , and regulatory cost galore — be bad enough . let we hear some specific denial on those other taxis . I call Georgia Gould for her maiden speech . I be pleased to speak in a debate with so many strong female representative , include the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , and I be really honour to speak in a debate lead by the first female Chancellor of the Exchequer , who have show today what a force for change she be . I have find it incredibly move to hear mps across the House talk with such love and dedication about the place they represent . it have give this Parliament a deep grounding in the story of people from every part of the UK . I feel deeply the trust put in I by the people of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale . in speak here , I stand on the shoulder of some extraordinary woman who have represent the different part of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) be someone who break through glass ceiling and lift other up behind she . nothing ever dim her spirit and her passion for tackle injustice . you need only walk down Harlesden High Street with she to see how she inspire people by her example — and sometimes her music . my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) be a formidable campaigner who be in the Chamber the day she be due to give birth because she need to give her constituent a voice . she do not stop campaign until her constituent Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe be safely home with her family . those who know she will quickly learn that she never , ever give up . she be always a voice for the people she care about . Karen Buck give an extraordinary 27 year of service to the resident of Westminster North . I be at a school in my constituency last week where the head say that Karen be the fourth emergency service , always at the end of a phone ready to help . I remember go to an elderly people ' s lunch where the resident say , " you can be our MP — you be very nice . just make sure that Karen come to our resident ' meeting in July . " the wonderful team at the House Library send I Karen ' s maiden speech . it be no surprise to I that it be a passionate call to action on the housing condition of her constituent . that passion have not dim for a second ; it could be hear in every line of her 37 intervention on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill over 25 year later . she have show that somebody with community run through their vein can move mountain . I will work every day to live up to the woman who come before I — that include you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your sister Baroness McDonagh , who have both show such amazing , dedicated service and have never give up fighting for constituent and the people of this country . queen ' s Park and Maida Vale be a place that mean a huge amount to I . my great - grandfather come over to the UK when he be a teenager , flee the poverty and pogrom of Lithuania , and work his way up to open a shop on Kilburn High Road . my family have live and work in the area ever since . grow up in the heart of London , I attend Hallfield primary school and see how many child be cut out of the opportunity on their doorstep ; that have drive I ever since . the need that we see now be great than ever . my inbox and my surgery be full of people face the homelessness crisis and skip meal to feed their family — all in walk distance of the Chamber . queen ' s Park and Maida Vale be a place with huge need , but also with huge heart . it have welcome not just my family but family from so many different background . we be home to the Bangladesh Caterers Association ; the Lauderdale Road synagogue ; the UK Albanian Muslim Community and Cultural Centre ; Harlesden , which be the unofficial capital of reggae and the starting point for so many iconic artist and producer ; Kilburn , a centre of creativity with a claim to be the birthplace of cinema ; and the amazing , diverse community of Church Street . we be a community that be rich in spirit and dynamism . in 1879 , Queen ' s Park be choose to host the royal agricultural show , the victorian equivalent of the Olympics . it be a very british affair — it rain most of the time — but ordinary people campaign to preserve the open space , and it be still a thriving park today . down the road , Walterton and Elgin Community Homes be a shine example of community leadership . we also have the country ' s only urban parish council . queen ' s Park be the birthplace of the pride of west London , Queens Park Rangers football club . I can tell the House that be a QPR fan be almost as good as this Chamber for get to know the community of the UK ; it mean spend rainy day in Cardiff , Preston , Southend and Tranmere , embrace again and again the triumph of hope over experience . I have always be an optimist . despite 14 tough year in local government , include seven as Camden council leader , I have never lose hope , because every day I can see the power of community . I be elect as a councillor in 2010 , and at event , when people use to say to I , " what do you do ? " , I would proudly say to they , " I be a councillor . " they would say , " that be so wonderful ; you do such wonderful work as a therapist . " I would have to say , " no , not that kind of counsellor . I be a Labour party councillor . " they would either swiftly go and get a drink or talk to I about dog mess . street cleaning and rubbish collection be essential service that council deliver — my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) once introduce I as the person who make sure that Keir Starmer ' s bin be collect — but we often forget how much more local government be . I see that every day , watch the work of Brent and Westminster , two brilliant labour council in my constituency . council be lifeline for community . they provide care for the child and adult who most need support . they be leader of place , bring service and people together to make change . I have see local government staff go above and beyond time and again , fuel by love and dedication , because there be no one else there , whether they be work with community to deliver food during covid or support afghan evacuee . when thing have be hard , they have hold together our community , find unity in difference . the Gracious Speech set out bold new proposal in the english devolution Bill to unlock the energy and creativity of community . it set out Bills to fulfil Karen Buck ' s long - hold campaign to end no - fault eviction and reform the leasehold system . the proposal will support the people of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale who come out every day to build their community — the youth worker , the community gardener and those run the North Paddington food bank , who wish it do not have to exist . these be people put hope into action because they believe that thing can change . I know that as I sit in the Chamber , I will have their voice and story with I , but I will also have the story that I have hear from hon . member from across the UK . we all have that in common : the privilege and the responsibility of bring the voice of our community to this place . we may debate and disagree , but I hope to always listen and learn , and remember that we be be entrust to weave those story , hope and ambition together into a national vision for this country — one that govern for all and leave no one behind . I congratulate the hon . member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) on a simply superb speech that follow the good tradition of the House . she have do her constituent proud , and I know that she bring huge expertise and commitment to this House . I wish she all the good . I put on record my thank to the good people of Fareham and Waterlooville for send I back to Parliament . we have a fantastically energetic — let I put it that way — and hard - fought campaign . I be honour and humble to have the privilege to speak on their behalf in this Chamber . one thing strike I in the King ' s Speech — not the long list of policy that will no doubt damage our economy , or the vague promise that will not survive contact with reality . for I , the thing that be conspicuous by its absence be the total failure of the Labour Government to deal with child poverty and scrap the two - child benefit cap on welfare . [ interruption . ] yes , hon . member hear that right . [ interruption . ] order . could we show respect and listen to the Member ' s speech ? I detect a bit of surprise on the Government Benches . I have rise to speak on scrap the cap . in the grand tapestry of british politic , where the warp and weft of policy and principle interlace , it be not often that a Conservative MP will find thread of agreement with friend across the aisle , but here we be , discuss a proposal back by Labour MPs , lead by the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and back by the Liberal Democrats , the Scottish National party and many opposition party . it be one with which I agree , because it speak to my profound sense of justice and , dare I say , compassion . I will say why conservative can and should back scrap the cap . let we not rewrite history , because there have be a lot of nonsense from Labour Front Benchers about the situation that we inherit in 2010 . to put it simply , we inherit no less than an economic catastrophe , and we work hard to recover from that situation . the deficit stand at 10 % in 2010 ; we get that down to 1 . 9 % . public sector net borrowing be at 10 % ; we get that down to 3 % . we be in a deep recession , and we now have the fast grow economy in the G7 . we have to make incredibly difficult decision back in 2010 to reduce our welfare bill , but it be clear to I that through those welfare reform , spearhead by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , we overhaul an overly complex , bureaucratic system , and help million of people get back into work . four million more people be in work now than in 2010 . the unemployment rate be down to 4 . 4 % — almost half what it be in 2010 . we can make change to some of the decision that we make back then . it be clear to I from my work with vulnerable family in Fareham that the cap be not work . it be push more child and family into relative poverty , cause they to use more food bank . there be three good reason for scrap the cap . will the right hon . and learn Lady tell the House who introduce the cap , why , and which way she vote when the measure go through this House ? I just set out that the parlous economic situation force we to make impossible choice , but thank to the improved economic and the improvement bring about by universal credit , I believe that it be time to put child poverty first and scrap the cap . there be three big reason for conservative to support that . first , it be affordable . for about £ 1 . 7 billion — 0 . 14 % of total government spending — we could quickly bring around 300 , 000 child out of poverty . in this improved situation , that be the fair and right thing to do . secondly , the reason why it be introduce in the first place be to disincentivise poor family from have more child , but that have not necessarily work . the number of child bear have remain relatively stable . as the Joseph Rowntree Foundation find , heartbreakingly , 43 % of child in large family be in poverty . the child hard hit be those under four . it predominantly affect young child , and those in large family . I believe that the cap be aggravate child poverty , and it be time for it to go . I know that there be the argument , " Don ' t have child if you can ' t afford they . " to I , that be not compassionate , fair or the right thing to say . as conservative , we should be proudly and loudly the party of family . we should encourage family on low income to have more child . for those family on middle and high income , we should change our tax regime so that they be incentivise to have child . we have well parental leave policy , well childcare provision policy and well maternity care . I be a conservative because I believe in the strength and the sovereignty of the family unit . we should support it , not suppress it . this be not about right or leave . this be about right or wrong . let we come together , in a spirit of compassion and common sense , to scrap the cap and end child poverty for good . I call Sarah Sackman to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) . like other member , I be somewhat surprised by her rewrite of recent economic history . she have 14 year to fix the problem of child poverty , and do precious little to do that . I listen today to the Chancellor of the Exchequer lie out this Government ' s plan to restore economic stability and growth to this country — that be what will lift million of child out of poverty in the long term . it be a privilege to stand here today represent the place where I be bear and raise , Finchley and Golders Green . I would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mike Freer . although we disagree on many thing , Mike be dedicate to our area , both as a Member of Parliament and as leader of Barnet council . I admire his commitment to public service and , in particular , his role in secure equal marriage legislation for same sex couple — a legacy that he can take enormous pride in . but the circumstance under which Mike decide not to stand for re - election be appal . we should have be able to face each other on the basis of our idea , but Mike ' s life and office be threaten by those who believe in the bullet , not the ballot box . it be a stark reminder of the fragility of our democracy both at home and abroad . I want to use my time in this place to stand up for the democratic value and process that I believe in . witness the dignified and smooth transition of power last week in all part of this House be something we can take pride in . we must ensure that we work together to defend the safety of public servant . I wish Mike and his husband Angelo all the good in their future . I also pay tribute to the much miss Dr Rudi Vis , who hold a special place in the heart of my local community , not least as the first Labour Member to represent this special patch of north London . in over a century , I be only the second person from my party to be send to this place by the people of Finchley and Golders Green . I be also only the second woman . some member may remember the first . when Mrs Thatcher enter this place , she be make to wait two whole year to make her maiden speech , but in our era of breakneck news cycle , and with so much work that I want to do , have to wait just two week have feel like a very long time . have delay long enough , Mrs Thatcher do not waste a second when she rise to her foot , break convention by make her maiden speech on a private Member ' s Bill that she introduce . " this be a maiden speech " , she say , her sonorous tone echo through this hallowed place , " but I know that the constituency of Finchley … would not wish I to do other than come straight to the point " . — [ Official Report , 5 February 1960 ; Vol . 616 , c . 1350 . ] the people of Finchley and Golders Green rightly remain as demand of their elect official today , so I , too , will come straight to the point . like Mrs Thatcher , I be a patriot and I want our community and our country to prosper and be an influence on the global stage . but unlike she , I fundamentally believe that there be such a thing as society . society be not an abstract idea to be bury in sociological essay . we can see it in the rich tapestry of community that come together across Finchley and Golders Green . I may be the first female , jewish , Gibraltarian MP from this constituency , but I would not be here without the support of my neighbour and my community : the cypriot community , the Somali Bravanese , the Kosovan , the Japanese , the irish and Hindu community , the lawyer and the Uber driver , the charity worker and the campaigner , the Spurs fan and the fan of some other north London team . whereas in recent time some politician have choose to use " north Londoner " as an insult , my constituent and I wear it as a badge of pride . it symbolise a place that celebrate diversity , hard work and look out for your neighbour . our diversity come as no surprise to anyone familiar with the history of our area . where else can boast the parish where Archbishop Desmond Tutu hone his ministry in the terrible year of exile during apartheid in South Africa , and the childhood home of the late and great Rabbi Jonathan Sacks , a man who teach we that a good society be one that offer all its member equal access to hope ? it be in East Finchley that George Michael first tinkle the ivory and Amy Winehouse first take the stage . Finchley and Golders Green have a quiet radicalism bake into its history . take Hampstead Garden Suburb , where I grow up , a project drive by the extraordinary Henrietta Barnett in the early 20th century . one of the first garden city , it be a groundbreake development . she also set up Toynbee Hall in London ' s east end , where I begin my legal career as a volunteer at the Free Legal Advice Centre . I see there just how important the law could be for tenant face eviction and woman suffer unequal pay . now I want to take those value of access to justice and a commitment to the rule of law into my new role as Solicitor General . when , in 1907 , we witness the opening of Golders Green underground station , advert at the time dub our area a " place of delightful prospect " . I can vouch for the fact that never a truer word have be speak , but this place of delightful prospect have suffer in recent year . my community have witness rise level of antisemitism and Islamophobia . these be a scourge on our society and as long as I be in office I will tirelessly call they out and work to eradicate they . our community today be increasingly become a place of busy food bank and empty mansion . inequality be writ large , stunt people ' s health and potential . many across Finchley and Golders Green be struggle with the spiral cost of living . this have to change not just in my constituency , but across the whole country . our NHS be break , the prison be full , the police can not respond when they be call out and our teacher be not support to deliver . we need to get Britain back on track , and the Bills set out in the King ' s Speech be exactly what we need to take the brake off the economy and restore and rebuild our public service . my constituent be rare to go . whether it be the Brent Cross Town development , one of the large regeneration development in Europe , or our brilliant high street business and local entrepreneur , all we need to get grow be a Government who be on our side . well , we have that Government now . so , to quote my famous predecessor , let ' s get straight to the point and let ' s get on with the change that Britain truly need . the shift to a green economy represent the most significant transformation for century . we must reverse the damage rhetoric by the fail Conservative Government that the economy will suffer if we be uncompromise in our ambition to get to net zero . this be not an either / or of economic growth or investing in the green economy — the green economy be at the heart of economic growth . we must end our reliance on oil and gas . renewable would mean cheap energy bill across the country , and we would no long be reliant on dictator such as Vladimir Putin who use natural gas as a weapon . as well as be more affordable , renewable be the good route to energy security . under the Tory party , renewable project face long delay and cost skyrocket . the new Government ' s reversal of the de facto ban on new onshore wind be welcome . we be also glad restriction on new solar have be reverse . the liberal Democrats share the ambition of the Government ' s climate agenda , but we will also ensure that these project have local buy - in . local authority must play a lead role in deliver climate action , and the community that host the new infrastructure must directly benefit from it . for example , there be huge growth potential in community energy . the Liberal Democrats be call for small - scale renewable energy generator to receive a guarantee fair price for the electricity they sell back to the grid . community benefit and individual economic incentive be crucial to secure support and active participation in our energy transition . in both the Labour and the liberal Democrat manifesto there be a clear commitment to tighten energy efficiency standard for private landlord . National Energy Action have warn that the statutory fuel poverty target can not be meet without do so . the King ' s Speech provide an opportunity for the new Government to set that as a priority in their new renter ' right Bill , but it be miss out . I hope the Government will hear this and ensure that improvement to energy efficiency for renter materialise before the situation worsen . under the previous Conservative Government , the cost of living crisis be exacerbate by rise in travel cost , particularly for commuter . it be not clear how Labour ' s plan for nationalisation will do anything to alleviate the high cost of travel by rail . we urge the new Government to freeze rail fare and simplify ticket to ensure that regular user be pay a fair and affordable price . for too long , decision over local transport have be centralise . liberal Democrats have long argue for lift the ban on local authority franchise bus . it be reassuring to see that the Government recognise the importance of local decision making . however , council will need adequate resourcing to expand service . we be yet to see a strategy for that . we would also like to see a long - term plan from the Government for further electrification of the rail network . not provide one would be a dereliction of duty to reduce emission and improve air quality . I look forward to work together constructively with the new Government to turbocharge our energy to get to net zero , and to make sure we really improve our green public transport and grow the huge opportunity of a green economy . I call Andrew Lewin to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech in this debate . it be a privilege to follow the first female Chancellor in history , and to follow two inspire maiden speech from the Labour Benches by my hon . friend the Members for queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) and for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) . it be an honour to sit alongside they on the Government Benches , and their community be both very lucky to have they . as hon . member can imagine , I have give careful thought to my remark today , but it be safe to say that this be not the most anticipated maiden speech ever associate with Welwyn Hatfield . the reason for that be that , on 20 November 1558 , Elizabeth I give her inaugural address as Queen from Hatfield House in my constituency . irrespective of how the next few minute go , I think her place in history be safe . I be especially grateful to be call in this debate on the economy . my constituency be anchor by two new town that flourish under a previous Labour Government . Hatfield and Welwyn Garden City be incorporate as new town together under a single development corporation on 20 May 1948 . the growth of Hatfield and Welwyn Garden City play an important role in the rebuilding and reimagining of life in our part of the country after the horror of the second world war . I believe that if we be to succeed in grow our economy , we have to rediscover the ambition and the vision that be embody by those who design and carefully plan our two great town . my predecessor as the MP for Welwyn Hatfield be the right hon . Grant Shapps , who serve our community for 19 year and will be well known to all member of this House . in fact , he will probably be familiar to anyone who be watch a morning television news programme at any point over the last five year . before I talk about Grant ' s legacy , however , I want to start with a message of reassurance to the Labour Whips and my colleague : I have no desire to hold quite so many Cabinet position as he do , and certainly not in such a short period of time . I want to reflect solemnly on the personal and professional commitment that Grant Shapps make to the people of Ukraine . after the russian invasion in 2022 , he open his family home to provide sanctuary to three generation of a ukrainian family , innocent people whose life be turn upside down by Putin ' s unprovoked act of aggression . in the last Parliament , more than 200 , 000 Ukrainians be welcome to our country under the Ukraine family scheme and the Ukraine sponsorship scheme , an initiative that I believe show our country at its good , open and welcome in an hour of grave need . we serve in this House of Commons at a time when our wide political discourse can often be angry and divisive . of course we will disagree in the House , and passionately so — our constituent rightly expect we always to stand up for our community and our value , and I will certainly try to do just that — but I think we can too easily forget what unite we . where we agree , let we have the confidence to say so . my predecessor be right to champion the people of Ukraine , and the cause of freedom and democracy . I commend he for it , and wish he well in whatever come next . Welwyn Hatfield be a constituency rich in history . Welwyn village and Woolmer Green be both roman settlement , and Welwyn be one of the few place in the country believe to have be occupy continuously for 2 , 000 year . nearly 400 year after Hatfield be home to Queen Elizabeth I , local people make an important contribution to the defeat of Nazi tyranny . the Royal Air Force ' s Mosquito fighter - bomber be develop at the de Havilland airfield and aircraft factory in Hatfield . Welwyn Garden City also have a unique place in history as the creation of Ebenezer Howard , the father of the garden city movement . his immaculately planned and tree - line street , such as Parkway in Welwyn Garden City , be still true to his vision from nearly 100 year ago . despite our wonderful history , what have strike I when I have walk around our town and village be the impression of too many project on hold , and potential go unfulfilled . take the iconic Shredded Wheat silos , design by Louis de Soissons in 1926 and a define feature of Welwyn Garden City for decade . the site have lain virtually dormant since the factory close in 2008 . in central Hatfield , it be a similar story . Queensway House consist of 66 unit that be once all social housing . in November 2019 , after a ballot of resident , a majority decide that it be time to demolish and rebuild , but nearly five year later Queensway House be still stand , and it loom over the centre of Hatfield as a symbol of the inertia that have capture our politic for too long . I be determined that that must change . the centre of Hatfield be one part of our community that most urgently need investment in good - quality housing and social infrastructure , and I will be a champion for it in this House . Welwyn Hatfield be a grow and increasingly diverse community . in just the last few month I have attend the world street food festival in Welwyn Garden City , the first ever diwali celebration in White Lion Square in Hatfield , and the ever popular Welwyn festival on Singlers Marsh . we be home to prominent national business , include Tesco and Ocado in Hatfield , and to the thriving University of Hertfordshire . the university will soon be open its state - of - the - art Spectra building for the study of physics , engineering and computer science — and yes , Mr Vice - Chancellor , as this will appear in Hansard , please consider that to be my formal bid for an invitation to its opening ! I believe that a new Parliament be a time for ambition and optimism . Welwyn Hatfield blossom when Attlee ' s Labour Government put housing and carefully plan community at the centre of their agenda for change . nearly 80 year later , we have another majority Labour Government with a mandate for national renewal . this be a moment of opportunity , and each of we on these Benches have a responsibility to play our part in realise it . for as long as I serve in this House of Commons , I will always do my utmost to champion Welwyn Hatfield , to respect our history , and to be an agent for change . rise — order . let I just give the House a reminder — not that the next Member I will call need this reminder — that for those of we who could be describe as veteran member , it be the custom to praise maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I say what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) ? he speak with great eloquence , and also with passion about his constituency . I know what a wonderful moment it be when we give a maiden speech . we all have that honour when we enter the House . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place , and look forward to work with he in the year to come . of course , Hertfordshire be next to the county where my own constituency be locate — Essex and Hertfordshire be twin county , so we be neighbour in some sense — and I also look forward greatly to hear more from he in the month and year ahead . I think that one of our colleague who speak early forget to welcome the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) . I know that constituency well . I campaign for Mrs Thatcher in 1983 as a young conservative , at the age of 17 ; I know Ballards Lane very well , and I have often be to Margaret Thatcher House . I must commend the hon . Lady on her kindness and the generous word that she speak about not only Margaret Thatcher but my friend Mike Freer , whom we be sad to lose in the election . I know that she will be a fine champion of Finchley and Golders Green , which be a proud constituency with a great identity , and I look forward to visit Finchley again while the hon . Lady be in place as the Member of Parliament . I do apologise to the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green , and to the whole House , for not recognise my duty to thank the hon . Lady for her wonderful speech . this mean that even after seven year in the House one sometimes forget to do certain thing . it be very good to see the hon . Lady in the House , and I particularly enjoy what she say about the rule of law . I be deeply proud to have be elect for the seventh time as the Member of Parliament for Romford . I be now the long - serve MP for Romford since 1885 , when the constituency be create . I be here because I believe in thing . I be here not because I seek title and position , but because I believe in this country , and I be also passionate about my constituency , because it be where I be from . I think that those of we who come from our constituency know how important it be to represent a place where we have live all our life , and I will always be proud of be the MP for my home town . as I have say , I believe in thing , and I believe first in this country . let I say to Ministers , whom I congratulate on their election to power , that thing change and government come and go , but the one thing that we must never give away be the freedom and liberty of the british people . I say to they , " whatever you do , please do not reverse the big democratic decision that the british people make . " we want to have sovereignty ; we want to have the right of self - governance ; but we also want prosperity , and that mean free enterprise , low taxis and small government . it do not mean create a large centralisation of power . Margaret Thatcher teach we that if we have low taxis and free enterprise , if we give people the freedom to prosper and make their own decision in life , in the end we create more prosperity and more opportunity for all . that , I be sure , be what all of we , in all part of the House , want to see , so let we learn from past mistake . I respect the fact that we have different opinion on many issue , and I also understand that all of we here want the good for our country and our constituency . however , I believe that if we want economic prosperity , we need government to stay out of people ' s life . we need to allow business to flourish . we need less regulation , and we need to cut unnecessary public expenditure , so that people be not pay high taxis which disincentivise work and put people off from invest in our country . I hope that the Government , have take office , will pay heed to that . I also say to they that , yes , we want to protect our environment , but we have to think very carefully about the evangelism of net zero . we do not want to make our country cold and poor , and to give competitive advantage to other country that do very little about climate change and have not meet their target . I be afraid the policy that the Government have adopt will deliver more power to China , so I warn they about go too far in that direction . I believe that we should be a Parliament that make decision , so I disagree with more and more quango , committee of expert and body that be not democratically accountable have so much say . why be we effectively give the Office for Budget Responsibility a veto over the right of this Parliament to decide economic policy ? surely that be something that the Government should think again about . before I have to end , I would like to say that if we be serious about devolution , we should give all part of the country great control over their local community . borough such as Havering would rather be independent . we do not want to be under Greater London ; we want power devolve back to our local community . historically , we be part of Essex , and we do not like be control by City Hall — and certainly not by the current Mayor of London . I represent the people of Romford , and they would agree with what I have say . let we have free enterprise , true devolution and , above all , prosperity for the british people , but let we also stand up for our country abroad and at home . I call Miatta Fahnbulleh to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by commend my hon . friend for their impassioned maiden speech ? I be so proud to be sit on these Benches with they . I be incredibly honour to be speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for Peckham , a new constituency that span from the oak tree of Nunhead cemetery to the spire of St Giles ' church , the african food shop of Peckham , the bustle of Rye Lane , the market stall of Faraday ' s East Street , the vibrant mosque of Old Kent Road and the latin quarter of North Walworth . ours be a community of community that represent the very good of multicultural Britain — people of different colour , culture , faith and background unite in our openness and acceptance of each other . we take pride in our diversity and the magic it bring to Peckham , and in our warmth and generosity of spirit . whoever you be and wherever you have come from , you will find your place in Peckham . for I , this be what make represent the constituency so special , because it be among friend and the Sierra Leonean community in Peckham that my family find refuge when we flee from west Africa when I be a child . it be in this community that I learn the value of compassion and solidarity that have shape my politic , and it be in this community that I first understand just how much the economy be fail people . I learn that you can work hard every day and still live in poverty , that our kid can be talente but still be deprive a shot , and that you can have billionaire live in the same borough as family that can not feed their kid . it be in Peckham that I find my resolve that this must change . that be why I become an economist , why I have spend the last 15 year develop and campaign for idea to bring this change about , and why I be stand here today . as I begin my journey in this House , I take inspiration from my formidable predecessor Harriet Harman , our inaugural Mother of the House . Harriet set the high bar possible for what it mean to be a great mp , have give 42 incredible year of service in work for the people of Camberwell and Peckham . in knock on door across Peckham , I hear story after story about how Harriet help her constituent and touch countless life . at a time when trust in our politician be so frayed , the warmth , love and trust that she command in our community speak volume . but more than that , she combine tireless work in her constituency with make a huge impact on our politic nationally — whether through endure policy like the minimum wage , the winter fuel payment and the Equality Act 2010 , which go to the heart of the inequality she see in our community , or through the trail she blaze for woman in politic by break ceiling and carve a path for other to follow . today , the 190 labour woman mp in this House be stand on her shoulder . on a personal note , I will always be grateful for her kindness , wisdom and grace , and for show I what it mean to be fearless in defence of your constituent , loyal but independent of mind , and tenacious about the change that be need . the need for change have never be so great . today , as we debate the economy and all the uncertainty it bring , there be one thing I know for certain : people in Peckham be struggle . their pay packet have flatline for too long , with their safety net cut to shred . over a third of they can not afford day - to - day essential , and too many of our child now live in poverty . but it be not just about the money in your pocket ; it be the fact that something as basic as a decent and affordable roof over your head be now out of reach for so many . our school , youth service , hospital and care system be at break point , and child in my school tell I that they only feel safe at home or at school — nowhere in between . People in Peckham need change — not word or the promise of change that never come , but real , tangible change that they can feel in their community and see in their life . they need change that will end the sense of be grind down , end the constant survival mode that so many people find themselves in , and rekindle the hope that have be beat out . the weight of responsibility to deliver this now sit with I and all my hon . friend on this side of the House . while the task feel insurmountable , what give I hope be that those on our side have always grasp for big idea to change the country when we have need to do so . the NHS , social housing from the rubble of war , and the minimum wage — we have always be the party of big idea . we have do it before at moment of crisis , and now we must do it again . as we find solution to the challenge in front of we , I , as a proud Labour and Co - operative MP , hope that we will draw inspiration from the deep tradition of our movement — the endure force of co - operation , put power back in local hand , create business run by local people for local people , trust community like Peckham to decide their own future , and give they ownership and a stake in their economy — so that we can deliver the change for which my constituent and constituent across the country have give we a mandate . if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , my final word be to my constituent . to the people lie awake at night and worry about bill , the trader fight for the survival of the business they have build , the family that can not afford a home to lay down their root , the people who can not get the care they need and the kid who do not feel safe in our community , I want you to know this . I have listen to every conversation we have have . I have hear your worry , your anger , your frustration and your hope , and I make one promise to you : in everything I do in this House , I will keep you in my mind ' s eye . I will be your loud voice , your fierce defender and your proud champion . I will fight every day to deliver the change that you deserve . I will serve you . I call Bradley Thomas to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech here in the mother of Parliaments , a global beacon of representative democracy . I congratulate the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) on her election and on make her inaugural contribution in this House . I be humble to serve the people of Bromsgrove and the village in my home county . I have some esteemed and worthy predecessor , most recently Sir Sajid Javid . he be the first ethnic minority Member of Parliament to become a Secretary of State , and go on to hold not one but two of the great office of state , serve as Home Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer . Sir Sajid be a man whose north star be his integrity , and he have devote much of his time to support and champion good and noble cause , include , as many in this House know , suicide prevention . Bromsgrove constituency be , for the unfamiliar , in Worcestershire . Bromsgrove town , its namesake , be proud of its history and tradition , which include a historic court leet centre around the parade on fair day , hold on the close Saturday to midsummer and in celebration of the 1199 charter grant to the town by King John . this heritage go far , and Bromsgrove ' s proud son and daughter include the poet and scholar a . e . Housman and his sister Clemence , who I could not fail to mention here in this House , give the role that she play in the suffrage movement . my constituency , however , be much broad than just one town . there be many more village and hamlet and , be 79 % rural , Bromsgrove epitomise the very good of Worcestershire . there be roll hill and thriving village where the community spirit be strong , include Clent , Dodford , Stoke Prior , Belbroughton , Romsley , Finstall , Barnt Green , Cofton Hackett , Tardebigge and Alvechurch . there be other community on the fringe of the constituency whose identity be root proudly in Worcestershire , include Hagley , Rubery , Wythall , Major ' s Green — and there be even a touch of glamour in Hollywood . I commit myself to represent they all . our village be home to rural enterprise , and to farmer who we all rely on three time a day and who be guardian of our countryside , often work in isolated or harsh condition , both physically and in a competitive marketplace . it would be easy to be lull into think that Bromsgrove be somewhere quiet and without ambition , but hon . member must not be fool . the Sunday Times recently highlight how South Bromsgrove high school be a powerhouse of aspiration and entrepreneurship , produce young high achiever who have go on to find lead company in their sector , include Gymshark and AYBL . it be in no small part down to the attractiveness of rural Worcestershire that Bromsgrove be a fertile place for aspiration and ambition to bloom . as a Conservative , I believe in respect the tradition and heritage that anchor our institution and value , as society evolve to meet the need of the present day and into the future . prior to my election to Parliament , I spend many year as a councillor in Worcestershire , include as leader of Wychavon district council , where I champion the importance of design code and the role of beautiful design in deliver quality community that inspire a sense of pride , nod to our past and catalyse the economic and social investment that allow our town and village to flourish . we must do this by shift our collective focus away from beautiful design be see as a cost , and towards see it as an investment that pay dividend in the form of thrive community and vibrant place where aspiration can bloom . this be critical across Bromsgrove , a place that be 89 % green belt and be the rural buffer between Worcestershire and the urban sprawl of Birmingham , to ensure that we protect our green open space and do not build identikit monotony all over the countryside , instead focus on deliver quality home , with appropriate landscaping and a mix of texture and colour , with genuine local support first . over the come year , we must never forget that the single big driver of our economic success be a thriving free market — an environment where business be incentivise to invest , create the prosperity that will underpin our national success . the Government must exercise restraint as they seek to create new bureaucracy , which increase the size of the state under the veil of public service reform , and they should be cautious as additional spending , fund through taxation or borrow without serious structural reform of public service delivery , will fail every stakeholder who interact with public service . in my constituency , Bromsgrove school , found in 1553 , employ over 600 local people and contribute £ 43 million to the gdp of the UK . while every member of this House would surely agree that education be the foundation of prosperity , the Government ' s proposal to impose vat on these school be not only an ill - conceive affront to the child and family who currently exercise choice in education provision but an attack on the wide education system that will undoubtedly do little to enhance the quality of state education and will instead level down education standard across the board . I say that as someone who be proudly educate in excellent state school . we must also show determination in deliver vocational skill in agriculture , manufacturing , technology , engineering and trade , which will bolster our prosperity , raise our baseline level of industrial resilience in a world where our adversary want to blunt our competitive edge . food and energy security be two of the most significant and interlinked contemporary challenge that we face . the Government must remain pragmatic in their effort to deliver on both , ensure that in everything they do , they do not worship at the altar of ideological purity and inadvertently sacrifice our own long - term economic success in the process . in the word of a . e . Housman , " the house of delusion be cheap to build , but draughty to live in , and ready at any instant to fall . " I look forward to play an active role in this House , deliver on behalf of my constituent and in the long - term national interest of our country . I start by congratulate all those who be make their maiden speech today , and welcome they to this place . I also thank my Liverpool Riverside constituent who re - elect I . I give my commitment to continue to be their voice in this place . my constituency be now the most deprived in the country , with 47 % of child live in poverty . that be nearly one in every two child , and it be community such as mine that have face the sharp edge of 14 year of austerity and the cost of living crisis . nationally , 16 million people be now live in poverty ; 4 million be child , and 1 million be live in destitution . I be sure everybody in this House would agree that those figure be unacceptable . child poverty be completely avoidable in the sixth rich country in the world . not tackle it store up problem for the future , cost our economy £ 39 billion per year , accord to calculation by the Child Poverty Action Group . it be not a question of whether we can afford to adopt vital policy to alleviate child poverty , such as lift the two - child cap ; it be a question of whether we can afford not to . this be the reason I table amendment ( f ) to the King ' s Speech , with a focus on debate not division , to push for a clear timetable for scrap the two - child cap . the end Child Poverty coalition believe this to be the most effective way to immediately lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty . there be support for this position from right across the political spectrum , and it be something that the labour leadership have indicate that it will do as soon as financially viable , but there be pocket of money that can be find if we look hard enough . Gordon Brown have suggest that between £ 1 . 3 billion and £ 3 . 3 billion can be find by impose a reserve requirement on bank similar to those that the European Central Bank and the swiss bank currently have , and that £ 700 million can be find by simplify the gift aid system . economist believe the recent upturn in the economy mean that the new Government could begin to consider bring forward priority policy such as scrap this cap . other would argue that progressive taxation should also be strongly consider . the late Department for Work and Pensions datum show that two third of family impact by the two - child cap have at least one parent in full - time work . the last Labour Government have a big and bold ambition in 1997 to end child poverty within a generation . as a single work mum of twin , I personally benefit from those transformative policy . without the availability of after - school and holiday provision , I would not have be able to continue work . I know we have inherit the bad financial situation since the second world war , and that Labour in government be go to have some very careful choice to make about the path forward . we have a massive mountain to climb , but we be elect with a massive majority . the country have vote for change . remove the two - child cap would send a powerful message of hope to those who have put their trust in a Labour Government to bring about the change we so desperately need . the one in two child live in poverty in my constituency have know nothing but the tyranny of a Tory Government , hunger and hardship during their short life . those child can not and must not wait any long to be lift out of poverty . as I mention early , the purpose of my amendment be to debate this very important issue , not to cause division , and there have be lot of debate this week but we need action . this punitive policy need to be consign to the dustbin of history , where it belong , and in its place we need policy to lift 4 million child out of poverty . let we put these child and our country first . I call on the Chancellor to make some immediate change here . I call Peter Bedford to make his maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) and member on both side of the House who have give their maiden speech with such passion today . I thank my long - stand friend , family and supporter who have work so hard to enable my election to this place . although there be far too many to name , I want to put on record my sincere thank to Richard Milburn , Paul Taylor , Jon Humberstone , Ravinder Taylor and Ross Hills for their herculean effort over recent month . it be customary for new member to pay tribute to their predecessor . however , I be in the unusual position of my three immediate predecessor be sit member of this House . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , and my hon . friend the Members for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , and for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , for their assiduous work in the last Parliament for the resident of my constituency . I look forward to work with they collectively for all the resident of Leicestershire . the new Mid Leicestershire constituency be form from part of Charnwood borough , Hinckley and Bosworth borough and Blaby district . the Charnwood village comprise Anstey , Birstall , Cropston , Thurcaston , Swithland , Rothley , Mountsorrel , Woodhouse Eaves and Old Woodhouse , and the borough be home to the UK ' s only mainline heritage railway , the great central railway . at the heart of the constituency be Bradgate Park in Newtown Linford , a place I call the jewel in the crown of rural Leicestershire . no matter your trouble , you will be able to take a peaceful , tranquil walk , admire the deer and their fawn , while take in breathtake view of the beautiful green surround , before look up at Old John and quietly reflect on one ' s physical fitness ; it be a 212 - metre climb to the top of that hill . it would be remiss of I not to mention the ruin of Bradgate House , which be believe to be the birthplace of Lady Jane Grey , who rule as queen for a mere nine day ; hon . member can be assure that my maiden speech will not last that long . the Blaby district area of braunstone , Thorpe Astley , Leicester Forest East , Kirby Muxloe and Glenfield also form part of the new constituency . although they extend from the city , they very much value their unique identity as independent county settlement . indeed , I put on record my support for the campaign spearhead by Glenfield resident Steve Walters and local resident to protect Glenfield from the ever - increase urban sprawl . the Hinckley and Bosworth village include Ratby , Groby and Field Head , in addition to Markfield , Stanton under Bardon , Bagworth and Thornton , which for the last seven year I have have the immense honour of serve as a Leicestershire county councillor . many of my constituent have legitimate concern about overdevelopment and the lack of infrastructure to cope with the strain that population growth bring . I think of village such as Ratby , which have see its population almost double over the last 10 year , and where , even today , developer be willing to take advantage of the borough council ' s lack of a local plan . I urge the incoming government to ensure that local community , not faceless bureaucrat in Whitehall , always have the final say on development across our green and beautiful countryside . I turn to the issue that I will champion during my time in this House . the first be social mobility . as the eld of three child in a single - parent family , I passionately believe that it do not matter who you be or where you be bear ; it be what you do with your life that matter . life chance , own your own home , get a career and have a family should not be the exclusive preserve of the wealthy , but should be opportunity available to all . I believe that the good path out of poverty be through education and training , and I will work constructively with member from across the House to ensure that reform and investment in these vital tool be the Government ' s top priority . the motto of my secondary school be " aspire , achieve , Acclaim " , a sentiment that I want to see promote far more widely across society . secondly , I come through the rank as a local councillor , so I can not give my maiden speech without refer to fair funding for local authority ; that be another issue that I wish to spearhead . the system be fundamentally break , with allocation still link to historical spending level . the result be a poorly fund system in which need and funding do not match . for example , the core spending power of Leicestershire county council be a mere £ 900 a head , compare with almost £ 1 , 500 a head in the inner London borough . reform in this area , by government of all colour , be long overdue , and I shall be a vocal advocate for fair funding in this place and beyond . finally , dignity towards the end of life will continue to climb up the political agenda , particularly give our ever - age population . my election to this House be tinge with sadness that my grandparent be not around to see I give my maiden speech . both be diagnose with incurable cancer and , like million across the country , they want great control of their life in their final day . I be here to represent all my constituent , and I pledge to be a vocal advocate for those who be often disillusion with the political process , or feel that their voice be not hear by those with power . it be the high of honour to be elect to this place , and I intend to do my very good each and every day to repay that trust . I call Jonathan Brash to make his maiden speech . I congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today , include the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , who pay a moving tribute at the end of his speech . I thank staff across the parliamentary estate for diligently and patiently look after new member in these first few day . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech , which I do proudly as the Member of Parliament for my hometown of Hartlepool . to represent the place where I grow up , where I meet my wife Pamela and where we be raise our young family hold a special kind of responsibility for I . the challenge that Hartlepool people face be personal , because they be challenge that I share . when one of our local business close due to spiral cost , there be a good chance that I have visit it in well time . when a local play area be the victim of arson , my child be among those devastate at the loss of a place they enjoy , and when someone tell I that they be live in pain because they can not see an NHS dentist in a town that have be describe as a dental desert , I know how they feel , because I can not get one either . it be these experience that drive I to serve my hometown , and it be Hartlepool people who have give I that opportunity . it be now my duty to respond in kind by deliver for they the opportunity that they have be deny for far too long . that be why I welcome this King ' s Speech , which prioritise growth in every part of the country , not just those already bless with affluence . Hartlepool ' s history be one of innovation and industry . once the bedrock of the british economy as the country ' s third - large port , we build ship that ship the Durham coal that power the world . at one point in our history , Hartlepool ' s shipyard , such as William Gray and Company , launch more ship than anywhere else in the world . as a major exporter of steel , we build the bridge , the ship , the railway and the infrastructure that transform not just our economy but economy across the globe . such be Hartlepool ' s strategic importance that , along with only two other place on the north - east coast , it be target for bombardment by the german navy during the first world war . in true Hartlepool style , we be the only place to fire back , make the Heugh gun battery the UK ' s only first world war battlefield . our industrial heritage have not leave we . the Expanded Metal Company , which I have have the pleasure of visit , provide metal mesh for building such as the Stephen Lawrence centre in Lewisham , the Young Vic theatre and New York ' s New Museum , among many other . our world famous , and award - win , cameron brewery be build during Hartlepool ' s industrial heyday , but it have survive , grow and adapt to a change economy , and a pint of Strongarm be as good today as it be back then . in move the Humble Address , my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) mention the famous Antony Gormley statue in his constituency . although there be no Antony Gormley statue in Hartlepool , we be proud to have build the most famous one . whenever I travel up the A1 through the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and see the magnificent Angel of the North , I remember three simple word : " make in Hartlepool . " if our history be one of industry , innovation and growth , I must tell the House in all candour that it must also be our future . too often , town such as Hartlepool have be leave behind , an afterthought in our national conversation , able only to reminisce about what we once be , not plan for what we can be . this must change , and I believe it will change under this Labour Government . right now , we be witness a new industrial revolution sweep the world as we shift to a net zero future . whereas our past be in coal and ship , our future be in new nuclear , wave and tidal . the election of this Labour Government mean that revolution be finally come to our shore , with a national wealth fund invest in job in every part of the country , a proper industrial strategy that forge a real partnership with business , and great British Energy , which will make the UK a clean energy superpower . I be determined that Hartlepool will play its part in this transformative agenda , once again at the metaphorical coalface of our country ' s prosperity and economic growth . that be nothing less than Hartlepool people deserve . they be my inspiration , with their defiance , grit and determination to succeed in the face of challenge . even in the tough of time , we come together , strong , more united and stand up for each other . everywhere in our town , we see courage , community and compassion . I have be privileged to work with brilliant Hartlepool people every day to improve our town , from those in our voluntary sector organisation and community group to our faith leader and those in our school , college and club , include Hartlepool United ; my child and I be proud season ticket holder . all of they be work together in the service of our town . Hartlepool have produce many lead light across a variety of profession , from Iron Maiden guitarist Janick Gers to world boxing champion Savannah Marshall , fashion designer Scott Henshall and television presenter Jeff Stelling , whose repeat and impassioned outburst defend the north - east , its culture , heritage and people from those who would seek to criticise it display all the formidable characteristic of a person raise in Hartlepool . the Prime Minister have rightly talk about put his government back into the service of work people . my unfaltere belief in public service be instill in I from a young age . I want to take a moment to pay tribute to my father , Charles Brash , a doctor in Hartlepool for over 30 year . one of my early memory be of he come home from a night on call — GPs do that in those day — have a quick bite to eat , and then head straight back out for his morning surgery . some people still call I " the doctor ' s son " , and I wear it like a badge of honour . his career , spend in the service of other , shape my value , and my belief that only by put people first can we achieve the change we need . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Jill Mortimer . since her election in 2021 , Jill have forge strong relationship in Hartlepool , particularly with veteran ' group , which I hope to emulate . public service be never easy , and I thank Jill Mortimer for her service to Hartlepool . I close by return to the idea of opportunity . right now , in 2024 , in one of the rich country in the world , nearly 20 % of Hartlepool ' s child live in absolute poverty . nothing could well symbolise the spectre of opportunity deny — the opportunity for a safe and secure upbringing , to fulfil their boundless potential , to get a good job and raise their own family in security and prosperity . so I welcome the announcement by my right hon . friend the Secretaries of State for Education and for work and Pensions on develop an ambitious child poverty strategy , because as member know , the record be clear : when Labour be in government , child poverty fall . I be privileged to stand in this place , but I will never lose sight of the fact that it be a privilege gift to I by Hartlepool people , far too many of whom have be deny opportunity for far too long . hartlepool people have a reputation for , on occasion , elect fighter as oppose to quitter , and I be pleased to tell the House that they have do so again . my duty , my service , be to fight for they every day to secure the bright future that our town deserve . I call Nick Timothy to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the other new member on their excellent maiden speech , in particular the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , where I know his predecessor , Lord Mandelson , recommend the mushy pea . it be an honour to be call to speak for the first time . I pay tribute to the last MP for West Suffolk , Matt Hancock , who oversee the delivery of the covid vaccine , a vital achievement for our country . less well know be that Matt once ride in , and win , the Blue Square Cavalry Charge horserace in Newmarket , a feat that require he not only to be propel forward by a thoroughbred horse at 30 mile per hour , but to train for three month and lose 2 stone . for all these reason , not least the dubiousness of the idea that I have 2 stone to lose , I can assure the House that I will not be step into my predecessor ' s stirrup . Newmarket be the well - know town in my constituency . it be most famous for horseracing , an international success story that bring thousand of job and hundred of million of pound to the local economy every year . from Charles I to Charles III , racing give West Suffolk its long connection to royalty , but unfortunately ours be not an unblemished record , for Newmarket be once the home of Oliver Cromwell ' s new model army . Old Ironsides champion free expression yet persecute his enemy . he attack aristocratic privilege and patronage , but hand power to his crony . censorious , joyless and puritanical — it be like he write the labour manifesto . fortunately , we have leave those day of self - denial behind , and from the Star in Lidgate to the queen ' s Head in Hawkedon , the Affleck Arms in Dalham to the White Horse in Withersfield , and many other , we have some of the good pub in Britain . and we have plenty more besides : beautiful village , vibrant town and farm that feed the country ; anglo - Saxon settlement and ancient church ; roll countryside and big Suffolk sky ; dense forest and the world - famous gallop ; business do everything from seed drill to particle engineering ; charity such as Reach in Haverhill and the day centre in Brandon and Newmarket ; Highpoint prison near Stradishall ; the airbase at Lakenheath and Mildenhall ; and public servant work for their community every day . I look forward to champion they all and address our challenge too , include deal with flooding in Clare , Cavendish and elsewhere , and fight the appalling decision to approve the Sunnica solar and battery farm , due to be build on high - quality agricultural land . in Brandon , lorry traffic be a problem . we need the Ely and Haughley junction sort to get freight on to the railway . in Mildenhall , where 1 , 300 new home be come , we need a relief road . we be not against new house building in West Suffolk — we have have 3 , 000 new home build in the last five year — but we need attractive family home in the right place . we need service and infrastructure to keep pace . we need to get tough with the developer and reform the construction market . we need to drastically cut immigration , not just for the economic and cultural reason that should by now be obvious , but to limit new demand for housing . our large town , Haverhill , have double in size in only 30 year , to almost 30 , 000 resident . it have an incredible community spirit , but the town centre be struggle . we need a new start for our high street , and I will fight for a railway link haverhill to Cambridge . the development of Cambridge loom large for we , but I want we to embrace the opportunity , not just fear the risk . if we get it right , we have the chance to get well infrastructure , new investment and more job . that be why I want to speak in today ' s debate . from pothole to public sector pay , the thread that run through all our challenge be an inconvenient truth . while it be plainly incorrect to claim that the new Government have the bad economic inheritance since the war — [ interruption . ] it be incorrect , but we be less prosperous than we often tend to assume . this be not a question of party politic , but of the decline and failure of our country ' s long - establish economic model . put simply : we do not make , do or sell enough of what the world need . our £ 33 billion trade deficit — 1 . 2 % of GDP — mean we sell off valuable asset and build up external debt to limit the current account deficit . we end up with less control over our economy , and more expose to global risk and shock . from low pay to regional inequality , poor productivity to the funding of public service , all the thing we worry about be symptom of this wide problem . we need to question economic theory , challenge Treasury orthodoxy and think beyond the intellectual limit of ideological liberalism . theory like comparative advantage have lead we to offshore industry and grow dependent on hostile state , like China . but international trade be neither free nor fair , and net zero can not mean sacrifice our prosperity and security . be a service superpower be a great advantage , but alone it be not enough . we need a serious strategy to reindustrialise , narrow the trade deficit and rebalance the economy . we need to change and , in the month and year ahead , I look forward to debate how we do so . I call Alan Strickland to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) on his maiden speech , and all those who have speak for the first time in the House today . it be an honour to make my maiden speech as the first Member of Parliament for the Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor constituency . I pay tribute to those who come before I . the former Sedgefield constituency make up the majority of the new seat . in addition , we have take Spennymoor and Tudhoe ward from Bishop Auckland , and Coxhoe ward from City of Durham . I wish to put on record my thank and pay tribute to Paul Howell and Dehenna Davison for their public service , and to my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) for her continue dedication to her constituent . unlike some former member of this House , I be not fluent in Latin , but I be assure that the motto of my hometown translate as " not the Least , but the great we seek . " this have not only serve as a powerful statement of intent for the new town of Aycliffe since 1947 , but capture the share spirit of the town and village across this new constituency — varied in history , but unite in a desire to get on , to do well , to strive for a well future . my own family ' s story be testament to this spirit of aspiration that have long define the work people of our country . several generation ago , both side of my family be draw from mining village across England to the Durham coalfield because of their reputation for good wage and reliable work . in turn , my grandparent move from pit village to Aycliffe new town , home for two year to the late Lord Beveridge , in search of modern housing and well job for their child . my parent ' generation then work hard to give we the opportunity that they never have , include high education , the chance to work across the country and across the world , and personal freedom to flourish . this ethos — that each generation raise the next , that background be no barrier , and that opportunity be distribute as widely as talent — be the drive force in family in my constituency and a lodestar for this Government . but make that a reality require strong economic growth across our country . we must back the industry of the future , such as Hitachi Rail in my constituency , which manufacture world - class , green train , and employ 700 highly skilled worker and another 1 , 500 in the supply chain . I thank a former Member of this House , Phil Wilson , for his tireless campaign , alongside the Northern Echo , which lead to the plant be locate in the area some year ago . I be also grateful for the public commitment make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister and my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Transport Secretary to support Hitachi ' s future . I look forward to work with they to secure those job and expand high - tech manufacturing more widely . that include the innovative work at Sedgefield ' s NETPark . this Durham University spin - off hub develop innovative product in satellite technology , drug development and biological weapon detection , which be then export around the globe . the creation of job in the industry of the future be particularly important in a constituency with former mining community , where ongoing economic development be badly need . I do not want the House to think that my constituency be all work and no play . we be famous for the Sedgefield ball game — a historic Shrove Tuesday tradition not for the faint - hearted . we be home to excellent football club , include Newton Aycliffe , where my parent serve on the committee , and Spennymoor Town . Spennymoor itself typify our rich cultural history , with a heritage trail dedicate to Norman Cornish , one of the pitman painter , who learn his craft alongside his mining in the Spennymoor settlement . some of the good brass band in the country can also be find in the constituency . they not only keep alive the cultural tradition of our past , but provide excellent , high - quality music education for new generation of young people today . we be also home to incredible local produce , include artisan chocolate make in Coxhoe , and award - win real ale brew at the Surtees Arms in Ferryhill — I have personally quality - assure the latter on several occasion . on the topic of ale , my predecessor Tony Blair be note for host world leader in pub across the constituency . I have yet to find a pub without a photo of the former Prime Minister and his close NATO ally , but my diligent search continue . finally , I be proud of our thriving community organisation . the Ladder Centre do invaluable work to support resident , and the Cornforth Partnership be a lifeline for those look to get back into work . just as Durham coal power our economy in the past , so constituency such as mine can power our modern economy , with high - tech , green manufacturing and research . let I return to where I begin — " not the Least , but the great we seek . " Mr Deputy Speaker , in this House , let we commit ourselves to seek the great — the very good — for our constituent , for our community and for our great nation . I look forward to see the economic measure in the King ' s Speech start to spread wealth , growth and opportunity to every corner of this United Kingdom , include the people of Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor . I call Gregory Stafford to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . I congratulate the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) on his maiden speech . I do not think that we cross over at university , but mutual friend tell I that he be an excellent president of the Oxford Student Union . we can tell that his debating skill be hone there , and we see that in evidence this evening . I want to express my gratitude to the people of the new Farnham and Bordon constituency for place their trust in I and for allow I the honour to represent they here in Parliament . I feel that give a maiden speech be a bit like give a good man ' s speech at a wedding , as you be surround by disapprove elderly relative who be go to hang on every word , but I can assure you , Mr Deputy Speaker , that none of the joke that I have make before in any good man ' s speech will be give in this House , especially as I know that my mother - in - law be watch on the Parliament channel . I also wish to thank my family — especially my wife , Caroline , and my daughter , Susannah and Lucy , who have put up with I a lot over the past year — for their patience and support , as well as my parent , James and Theresa . other hon . member have note that they be not the first people in their family to be member of Parliament . I be not even the first sibling to be a Member of Parliament . I pay tribute to my brother , Alexander , who serve the people of the Rother Valley constituency so diligently in the previous Parliament . apparently , it be also customary to express gratitude to our predecessor in the seat — a small political obituary , as it be . fortunately , both my immediate predecessor , my right hon . friend the Members for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) and for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , be still , as member can see , very much in their political prime . none the less , I want to thank they for their generous support and advice since I be select . they have both achieve amazing thing for the constituent whom I have inherit . campaigning be a sobering affair . on the doorstep I be tell : " oh , we do like Jeremy " , or " Damian do such wonderful stuff for we " , or " you have very big shoe to fill " . to rub salt into the wound , the week before the election , the local paper run a story on how much the people of Haslemere would miss the shadow Chancellor — believe I , I know my place . speak of predecessor , the predecessor of my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire , Lord Arbuthnot , should be praise for his sterling work on the Horizon scandal and for bring justice to the sub - postmaster so cruelly affect . I still hope that those who be responsible — by act or omission — be bring to justice . the newly create Farnham and Bordon constituency cross the county of Surrey and Hampshire , make the life of a new Member of Parliament even more complex than it already be . More than that , the name , while reference the two large town in each county , ignore the other town of Haslemere and Liphook and the many village that range between the large population centre . many argue for , and I support , a less specific but more all - encompass name for the constituency , such as the Wey Valley , take its name from the beautiful River Wey that run through it . clearly they be not romantic in the Boundary Commission , so Farnham and Bordon stick . the only save grace be that its initial spell FAB , which sum up the area that I represent . this " FAB " constituency range from Farnham in the north to Haslemere and Liphook in the south , Whitehill and Bordon in the west , and the western village of Surrey , such as Tilford , in the east . bookende by the north and south down , it be an area of outstanding beauty , with thrive market town , pleasant village , and a thrive sport and art scene , include the prestigious University for the Creative Arts . it also have a significant military connection , most obviously in Bordon , which be home to the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers until 2015 and be home to the Longmoor range , where ukrainian troop be be train . military history be everywhere , from Amesbury school in Haslemere and Hindhead , where Montgomery live during the war , to the canadian war grave and memorial in Liphook , and the site of the first ever two - minute silence in this country on Castle Street in Farnham . the resident of this new constituency be ever thankful for the role that our armed force have play in keep we safe . from Arthur Conan Doyle to Jonny Wilkinson , King John to Flora Thompson , and Graham Thorpe to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , hero and villain have be bear , live , work and play in this fabulous constituency , but it be not the beautiful scenery , the historic gem , or the famous people who make this constituency the good in the country . it be not even the fact that my grandparent run Stafford ' s sweet shop in Haslemere for many year — what little boy would not want grandparent who run a sweet shop ? it be the current resident , business and community spirit that make FAB special , and a joy to represent . every day there be local event , charitable occasion and community festivity to get involve with . indeed , I doubt that anywhere else in this country can rival the number of duck race in the area . follow that Cook ' s tour of the constituency , one might be forgive for think that there be no issue to solve — a home county garden of Eden . it of course can not be deny that there be many area of significant affluence , but it should not be conceal that there be area of high deprivation , and I will champion their improvement . the constituency ' s location be both a benefit and a curse . within easy commuting distance of London , it provide a rural haven for those who wish to live outside but work in the city . that also make it rich picking for housing developer who look for any open space , green or otherwise , to build on . I be not against housing development — we need home for our child and grandchild — but we need the right home in the right place , with the right tenure mix and with the support infrastructure . conservative - run East Hampshire district council have do everything that it can to persuade the new Government to modify their housing target to make they more appropriate for our area , include write to the Deputy Prime Minister . I hope that she will respond positively . indeed , if there be one issue that unite the whole of the new Farnham and Bordon constituency , it be that infrastructure have not keep pace with development . that be particularly acute in Bordon , where thousand of house be go up without the support infrastructure . the GP surgery , the NHS dentist , the school , the road and the leisure centre all need upgrade and expand rapidly to meet that housing growth . we must not build more house until infrastructure catch up . otherwise we will be leave with housing estate devoid of service , security and society . I be deeply concerned about the new Government ' s plan on house building . labour ' s change to planning , impose top - down target and remove the right of local people to have their say on development , be a retrograde step that have be meet with anger from my constituent and resolute opposition from I . I mention the need for health service in our area . have spend most of my career in healthcare , latterly work for seven year in the NHS improve clinical service and patient outcome , I know that both locally and nationally thing need to change in the NHS . we need to have a grow - up and honest discussion with the public about how we be go to deliver , provide and fund the NHS and social care go forwards . for an age population with increase healthcare need and diminish birth rate — that is , the people who be go to pay for the NHS — we need a cross - party discussion that bring all party together to make long - term decision on how we proceed with health and social care in this country . if I achieve nothing else in my time here , start that conversation , and hopefully progress it fruitfully , will be something to hope for . as a traditional , common - sense Conservative , I believe that we can not pay for health and social care unless we have a strong economy . despite a global pandemic , a war in the east of Europe and instability in the middle east , and regardless of the picture that the Government be try to paint in their press release , the most recent statistic show that the economy be turn around and be on an upward trajectory . I will oppose any measure by this government , include the misguided nationalisation of industry and the socialist labour rule , that I believe will hamper or reverse that trend . equally important be to safeguard ourselves from external threat . the rise of a resurgent Russia , China and North Korea be something that we should all be concern about . I do not believe that it be hyperbole to say that we be in a pre - war era , and we need to ensure that our border , sky and infrastructure , both physical and digital , be safe from threat . that be why I absolutely believe that we should move to 2 . 5 % of GDP spend on defence immediately , and increase that to 3 % when practical . in short , we must protect our economy , healthcare and national security to ensure the prosperity and safety of our country , but mindful that maiden speech be not mean to be controversial , I shall leave it there and return briefly to the subject of my FAB constituency . in 1668 , Samuel Pepys record that the people of Liphook be " good , honest people " . give his own moral and motivation , I be not sure whether he mean that as a compliment , but I assure the House that it be as true now as it be then for the resident of Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and our surround village , and I pledge to be a good , honest servant of they in this place . I call Rachel Blake to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) for describe his constituency so passionately . while we may strongly disagree on the need for growth and new development in this country , we may agree more on the future of our NHS , and I look forward to work together on that ambition . I be a proud Londoner , and like many londoner I be not actually bear here ; I be delighted to share with you that I be bear in Manchester and my family come from Lancashire . in fact , for most of my childhood I be aware of only one football team — the Bolton Wanderers — but for the last 42 year London have be my home , and the chance to represent my home city be truly a special honour . I put on record my thank to the resident of the Cities of London and Westminster for place their trust in I as their representative . I start by thank Nickie Aiken for her service . she be a pioneer , as the first woman to represent the Cities of London and Westminster , and be remember fondly by many resident . she have show I kindness and offer her advice , for which I be grateful . I know that here and across the constituency she will be remember for her tireless work campaign to regulate pedicab , and her work to end the Vagrancy Act 1824 and deliver the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I also pay tribute to my good friend Karen Buck , who represent the St John ' s Wood neighbourhood ward of Abbey Road and Regent ' s Park , which join the two Cities constituency in the recent boundary review . when walk through Westminster with Karen , it be hard to find anyone in her constituency who do not know she and have not be help by she . through her tireless casework for ten of thousand of constituent , and her home ( Fitness for Human Habitation ) Act 2018 , Karen have make an outstanding contribution to life in Westminster and beyond . she be a fearless representative and campaigner and a kind and wise friend . I be so grateful for her advice , and will do my very good to live up to her high standard . from 1977 to 2001 , the two Cities be represent by Peter Brooke , who be remember for his work as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and later as the Secretary of State for National Heritage . finally , I also remember J . s . Mill , who represent the City of Westminster from 1865 to 1868 , and who in 1866 become the first person in the history of Parliament to call for woman to be give the right to vote . I hope that he would be happy to see Nickie , Karen and I deliver on his pioneer work for equality here in the two Cities . truly , when a woman be tired of London she be tired of life . the Cities of London and Westminster be home to great cultural institution : the National Gallery , the Royal Opera House , the commercial centre of Oxford Street and Edgware Road , innovative start - up alongside major international corporation , the Government here in Westminster and Whitehall , the international financial centre of the City of London , the beautiful Hyde Park , Regent ' s Park and St James ' s Park alongside the residential square of Belgravia and Marylebone , and yes , Buckingham Palace . many member will know the neighbourhood of Soho , Fitzrovia and Covent Garden as place to spend a night out . in fact , ten of thousand of people live here . we have St Bartholomew ' s , one of London ' s old church , Bevis Marks , the old practise synagogue in the UK , and London Central Mosque . just minute away from Parliament we have the Peabody estate of Westminster , the pioneering and beautifully design Churchill Gardens and Lillington and Longmoore estate , the architectural delight of the barbican and Golden Lane and the historic community of Petticoat Square and the Guinness estate in Portsoken ward . all those place be home to diverse community live side by side , but also to inequality and injustice , and the struggle to find a stable , affordable and decent home be hold people in my constituency back from meet their potential . that struggle be hold our city and our country back from meet our potential . tackle the housing crisis have bring I into politic , and this debate on the King ' s Speech proposal for economic growth be an important time to highlight the situation that many of my constituent face . nearly 20 year ago , I work at the Treasury on the Barker review of planning . it be with sadness that I note that we be still not deliver the home we need . I be determined that this Government will deliver on our promise to build more affordable home . end no - fault eviction will bring certainty and security for the approximately 40 % of household in the Cities of London and Westminster who be rent privately . our cross - government strategy will put Britain back on track to end homelessness , rough sleeping and temporary accommodation , which have be rise here for year and be harm so many . I be grateful to organisation such as the Passage and the connection here in the two Cities for do so much to support vulnerable people . the Cities of London and Westminster have one of the high proportion of leasehold home in the country . residential leasehold be trap tenant with unaccountable landlord , and I be pleased the Government have pledge to introduce a leasehold and commonhold reform Bill . it be characteristic of such an international place that global pattern affect our local community . the rise of short - term letting and the risk of dirty money in property be contribute to a loss of home for Londoners , and as their representative here I be determined to tackle that . I will be stand up for our local hospital and St Mary ' s in Paddington , and continue our campaign to secure funding for the redevelopment of London ' s major trauma centre . the story of the two Cities be one that be optimistic , outward - look , hard - work and drive . I hope to continue to represent this place in that fashion . I be the first Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament to ever represent this historic constituency , and I join colleague in close with a pledge to approach this new Parliament with a renew commitment to respectful debate and disagreement . election be a time to make a choice . now that a decision have be make , it be time to move forward with a relentless focus on public service and delivery . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for kindly call I to contribute to this important debate on the King ' s Speech , after 11 very good maiden speech and 11 very promising — even fabulous — start to parliamentary career . those who have be in this House a little long will know that our great friend the late Sir David Amess , whose plaque now rightfully hang on the wall , have a great talent for manage to combine a very large number of topic into one speech . I lack Sir David ' s skill , so I will seek to confine my remark this evening to three topic , all development relate . the first topic relate to an expansion in medical capacity for the NHS , and specifically to proposal to expand the Jones family practice in Hockley . I declare an interest : my wife Olivia have work in the NHS for nearly 20 year . in essence , the plan be to expand the practice , with a first - floor extension to create eight new GP consulting room and additional training facility . Rochford district council recently approve planning permission for the extension , and the senior partner , Professor Dr Mahmud , and his active practice management team be now seek approval from local NHS boss to support the scheme . it be my intention as the recently re - elect local MP — for which I be very grateful to my constituent — to lend weight to these positive proposal . they be design not just to expand capacity , but hopefully to provide training place for graduate from the new medical school at Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford . for the record , I have also be work for some time to try to expand Riverside medical centre in Hullbridge , and I will be pursue that with the NHS as well . secondly , the town of Wickford have suffer a dearth of supermarket capacity in recent year . my constituent endure something of a perfect storm last year when the Aldi supermarket be close , while at the same time the old Co - op nearby have effectively stand semi - derelict for three year . during that supermarket vacuum , my constituent be force to fall back on the small Iceland in the high street and Wickford market . I be very pleased to reopen the enlarge Aldi last autumn , and it be now do a brisk trade . however , the Co - op still remain undeveloped and , while board up , be occupy valuable space in the town ' s principal car park . it be a long and complicated saga . suffice it to say that the site be buy several year ago by a development company name Heriot , which originally come up with a plan in conjunction with the supermarket chain morrison to redevelop the store , with an underground car park and some flat above . I always have doubt about the commercial viability of those proposal , especially the underground car park , and the scheme collapse some month ago . nevertheless , Heriot be work on what might be call a plan b , and for some month have be in what it describe as " advanced talk " with another major supermarket chain . for commercial reason Heriot ask I not to name the supermarket in this speech , something I have agree to respect — although I have to say that the name of the company in question be now effectively an open secret , and be even be report back to I on doorstep by my Wickford constituent during the general election . I speak to the director of Heriot in advance of this debate , who assure I they be seek to bring their commercial negotiation to a conclusion as soon as possible . they be well aware of my frustration at these three year of delay , which I convey to they again this morning , and they have ask I to relate that they realise that my Wickford constituent have already wait a long while for a new supermarket . that be an issue I campaign on heavily at the general election , so I hope Heriot will be able to announce something definitive this summer . my message to Heriot be simple : " you have have more than enough time — get on with it . " finally , over two decade I have see example of both good and bad development in my constituency . young people can not live at home with their parent into their 50 and 60 , so it must be possible to build some house in a sustainable manner to meet the housing need . crucially , however , the infrastructure require to accompany they have to be build first . to put it another way , from long experience , if development be to be successful — and it can be — as I say early , it have to be do with people , rather than to people . the proposal at a place call Dollymans Farm in my constituency , which I be re - elect with a mandate to oppose , be precisely the opposite of that . we all want to find somewhere suitable and appropriate for people to live , but we have to do that in the right way . it be an honour to be re - elect for the fourth time to the redrawn seat of Brentford and Isleworth , and to follow such impressive maiden speech , particularly that of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) , in whose constituency we all work . after nine year sit in Opposition it be a pleasure to be on the Government side of the Chamber and to support this Government ' s legislative programme , which bring hope , opportunity and change for my constituent and for the country at last . I will focus my response to the King ' s Speech on the Government ' s ambitious proposal around transport policy — not only because it be an area I have long be involve with , have serve on the Transport Committee for five year and chair five all - party parliamentary group on transport , but because transport be bring up regularly on the doorstep in this last election . the theme of today ' s debate be economy , welfare and public service . effective transport policy be essential to the change we need to see in all three area , as well as in address our climate crisis , so I be pleased to see the bold and ambitious plan set out by my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) and her team to do just that . for access to work , education and health service , for supply our manufacturing and retail sector and for support our wellbeing and family life , decent transport choice be essential , and nowhere be they more need than in the new community that will be build , if the traffic on the road to and around they be not to grind to a halt . whether in city , town or countryside , we need the full range of transport option — one that be affordable , accessible , efficient and environmentally sound . on bus , I be delighted that , through the well bus Bill , the Government will end the ideological and control - freakery policy of ban local authority from run their own municipal bus company . such company be kill off by the Thatcher Government in a bout of ideological rage , with only London retain a regulated bus service . the rest of England should have what we have in London : regular day , evening and weekend service , simple fare structure , and high standard of safety , accessibility and passenger information . those be be develop by the Mayor of Greater Manchester , Andy Burnham , and I look forward to see other local authority — of all party , I be sure — follow his example . to be an alternative to drive , and for we to cut road congestion and pollution , rail travel must be reliable . I be therefore delighted to see Bills to create great British Railways and to bring train operation into public ownership . that be essential for a simplified and unified rail system that focus on improve passenger service while get value for the taxpayer . our constituent , and many member of this House , have have terrible experience of cancel train , or of sit on the floor for hour despite book a seat . we will now see a Government and a Department that do not use transport as a cudgel in our culture war , or as a crude electoral hammer to override local authority that want to introduce sensible measure to encourage cycling and walking . transport be at the heart of the challenge of national renewal that we have set ourselves : kickstarte economic growth , boost job and living standard , and build sufficient home in sustainable community . of course there be challenge ahead — not least in far grow capacity in our overloaded rail network . I welcome the plan to improve east - west connectivity across the north of England , but fund further increase in rail capacity will unfortunately be financially unsustainable until we see the economic growth that the Chancellor be work on . aviation expansion be acceptable only if it pass the four test that we set ourselves in opposition : cut carbon dioxide emission , overcome local environmental impact , provide regional benefit across the UK , and deliverability . I know that the new Secretary of State and ministerial team will work across our travel and transport sector to improve transport connection to the benefit of our country as a whole . I call Robin Swann to make his maiden speech . it be with honour and humility , and a sense of trepidation , that I rise to make my maiden speech . I think of those who have speak here before and the gravity and seriousness of the issue that have be debate and discuss . I hope that this Parliament be no different in how it discharge its duty , and that we in this intake of new member live up to those standard . I congratulate the many new member on their maiden speech , which have set a high bar . like everyone else in this House , I wish to thank sincerely those who place their faith and trust in I by elect I . I be indebted to the electorate of South Antrim for the support that I have receive from across the entire community — indeed , entire community — in my election to this place . I also thank the dedicated campaign team who support I during what be an honourable campaign . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Paul Girvan , not just for his tenure as a Member of this House , but for his time as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and as a local councillor . South Antrim have move between Paul ' s party and my Ulster Unionist party on a number of occasion . with that , I carry the privilege and honour of return the UUP to this place after a seven - year absence , and the charge and responsibility of bring a moderate and reason unionist voice from Northern Ireland , in my party ' s tradition of work positively and constructively with all to achieve the good outcome for all our people , and of work across this House to strengthen our Union and to deliver a Union for all . I turn now to my constituency of South Antrim . I want those here this evening to know what a fantastic part of our country it be . like so many constituency , it have a mix of main town — Ballyclare and Antrim — and a range of what be once small village but be grow into large village , such as Toome , Doagh , Crumlin , Randalstown , Templepatrick , Ballynure and many more . much of the constituency be a large and productive rural area , while part of the expand urban area of Glengormley be merge with north Belfast in Mossley and Mallusk . South Antrim be home to industry , research and cutting - edge business in large and small employer . indeed , I look forward to work with the Chancellor and her Government in far support those business through the Bills in the King ' s Speech , and especially through the national wealth fund . South Antrim be the base of Belfast international airport , which I believe have a real opportunity if it get its much - need rail link and the further expansion of Aldergrove and our Royal Air Force base . that be why I believe that we also need a UK air transportation strategy , which I may raise later in the Adjournment debate — if the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will take an intervention from I ! South Antrim ' s agricultural sector be another pillar of our community and contribute significantly to our local economy . our annual Antrim agricultural show celebrate that agricultural heritage by bring together farmer , producer and visitor from across the country and showcase the good of rural life and promote a strong sense of community . it be on this Saturday at Shane ' s castle , and I would encourage and welcome anyone who want to attend . Lough Neagh — the large freshwater lake in the british isle — be another jewel in South Antrim ' s crown , but it be currently struggle because of neglect , like many of our waterway . however , the Stormont Executive ' s new recovery programme be in place , and I hope that — with national support , give the need for action on our waterway — Lough Neagh will once more be a tourism and recreational attraction for visitor from far and wide . a number of issue debate over the past few day will have a direct impact on the people of South Antrim , Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom — none more so than the future and support that the Government will offer our national health service and those who rely on and work in it . the Government have the opportunity to reverse the past year of neglect . health may be devolve , but that do not mean that we in this place can abdicate all responsibility for our national health service . we have the excellent Antrim area hospital in my constituency , but it need resource and support to develop its potential . as a former Health Minister of Northern Ireland , I know that we have plan to deliver well service , but change need recurrent resource , which have be lack in recent year . I look forward to work with this Government to rebuild our national health service . I know that I be speak to the converted on how great South Antrim be , because I have be overwhelm by the number of member from across the House who have approach I to tell I of a relative or friend who live in my constituency . indeed , I look forward to represent they and all my South Antrim constituent in this place . I congratulate all the hon . member who have make their maiden speech on their passion and their commitment to their constituency , which have come across so well . age do not wither , nor custom stale the privilege of be in this place , and I too want to thank my constituent , who have return I to Parliament to represent they all and the wonderful city we call home . I spend 14 year on the Opposition Benches , stand up for my constituent against a Government who be bear down on they . it be absolutely fantastic to speak from the Government Benches in support of a Government who will help and empower they . some conservative Members have be paint a rosy picture of our economic inheritance , but the message of work people in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West be clear and consistent : " we need change . " it be not hard to see why . People be bad off ; over a third of child in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West live in poverty ; and over 2 , 000 household in Newcastle be homeless . those be just a few of the issue that my constituent face , so please , let we not pretend that we should be grateful to the last Government . but everything change on 4 July . indeed , as I be buy my fish supper last Friday at one of the excellent fishmonger in Grainger market — locally smoke cod , since you ask — they tell I that on 5 July , sale of halibut soar . that be an expensive fish , so they take that as a sign of celebration , but also of optimism , hope , and confidence in a well future . there be nothing fishy there , because the Bills set out in the King ' s Speech will give Newcastle our future back . our destiny will be in our own hand , with the english devolution Bill and the well bus Bill give local leader such as our fantastic Mayor Kim McGuinness the power need to drive growth and prosperity locally . our region ' s immense potential in the green industry of the future will finally be unlocked through the national wealth fund and great British Energy ; planning reform will take the handbrake off build new home and space for business , make we an even great city with an economy that provide great job and good home for all Geordies ; and by expand the right of worker , tenant and minoritise group , the Government will make sure that work pay and everyone in Newcastle enjoy their fair share of our national prosperity . have work around the world as an engineer , I have be proud to champion science and innovation in Newcastle and across the UK . I be now privileged to have both of Newcastle ' s fantastic university in our constituency , and our city be look forward to build a proper industrial strategy once again — one that can boost our university as driver of inclusive economic growth . unlocking private investment through measure such as the national wealth fund and the recently announce pension review will super - charge spin - out and start - up in the north - east , and I believe that site such as Helix — home to innovative business and entrepreneur in cut - edge industry — be a tantalise glimpse of the future of Newcastle . technology have the power to make our constituent ' live so much well , and measure such as planning reform will make that a reality . as an ex - shadow science Minister , I have speak to Lord Vallance , as he begin his ministerial role , to offer my support , and to make the case for investment in regional research and development . I know that the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology team be already commit to open up career in science to everyone , get money outside the golden triangle and connect science to industrial strategy , healthcare and economic growth . as I have say , this Government inspire hope that have be lack in Newcastle — that is , apart from on match day . that be why , as the MP for St James ' Park , I welcome the football governance Bill . from Mike Ashley to the Saudi Public Investment Fund takeover , football governance have be a thorn in our side , and Geordies around the world will welcome the safeguarding of our precious football club . my constituent send I to this place because our party promise change . with this King ' s Speech , with this Government back at the service — order . I call Olly Glover to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to give my maiden speech today . I aspire to match the eloquence of the previous speaker in this debate , include the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who give the most recent maiden speech ; his passion for his constituency be very clear . I start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , David Johnston . I admire the fact that Mr Johnston enter politic because of his passion for social mobility . I have meet constituent who have be personally help by he , and I aspire to follow his lead . I be pleased that the first email in my parliamentary mailbox come from Lord Ed Vaizey of Didcot , Member for the predecessor seat of Wantage between 2005 and 2019 , offer his congratulation . that be a warm and encouraging gesture . I arrive in Parliament follow a career on the railway , serve the public , and I hope to apply my knowledge and experience to work with other to advance both rail infrastructure and public service in my seat . the name of the new Didcot and Wantage constituency be an improvement on the previous name , Wantage , but remain imperfect . while Wantage and Didcot be the large town of the three in the seat , resident from Wallingford be aggrieve by their omission . Mr Deputy Speaker , I can assure you and this House that all three town will have my attention and care . the same apply to the dozen of village in the seat ; I be fortunate enough to live in one of they , Milton . all our village have a unique character and set of attraction . Pendon museum in Long Wittenham include an homage in model railway form to the 1930s Vale of White Horse landscape , and there be also the ancient Uffington white horse and the beautiful chalk stream of the Letcombes . the constituency ' s economy be diverse : we have the technology and science centre of Milton Park , Harwell campus and Culham near to farm that have be pass down through generation . Didcot host many industrial and business unit , and resident benefit from the great western main line for fast commuting to and from London . organisation such as Didcot TRAIN , the DAMASCUS youth project and sustainable Wantage illustrate the strong culture of public service and volunteering . my constituent rightly have high expectation . during the election campaign , one of they highlight the lack of biographical detail in a leaflet about I , and ask I whether I be a doctor , a surveyor , a banker , a teacher , or an alien from outer space . despite my love of the voyage of the crew of the USS Enterprise , Mr Deputy Speaker , I can reassure you and everyone in this House that I be not an alien . of course , my constituency contain many non - human , albeit perhaps not alien . many a local party volunteer have come to tire of my frequent canvassing of cat as well as human . on occasion , this have help my cause : while I be in conversation with one voter , his cat , Matthew , intervene . Matthew take a strong liking to I , with a great deal of leg - rubbing , even sit on my lap on the pavement . the voter , astonish , tell I that Matthew hate nearly everyone , and that his favourable verdict on I would be take into account . turn to the subject of today ' s debate , my constituency share many of the same challenge as the wide country . access to GP appointment be often difficult , particularly in Didcot , which continue to yearn for a new gp surgery in Great Western Park . nhs dentistry barely exist , and sewage dumping in our waterway be a great concern , as be proposal for a large reservoir near Steventon and the Hanneys . many resident desire to walk and cycle more , but need pleasant and safe route and path in order to do so , and while the constituency benefit from fast railway connection , the reliability and capacity of the service provide can be somewhat patchy , and we continue to lack a railway station serve Grove and Wantage . perhaps the great issue on constituent ' mind be the cost of housing and recent , very substantial increase in the number of house . I commend the Government on their commitment to genuinely affordable housing , but ask they to bear in mind that resident would be more supportive of housing growth be the health , education , and transport facility need to support it deliver in parallel . I promise to work tirelessly for my constituent in the pursuit of progress on these issue , and thank they again for the opportunity to serve . it be a genuine honour to be stand here , and I look forward to work with member from across the House to achieve those aim . I call Josh MacAlister to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the fantastic maiden speech that we have hear from across the House this evening , include that of the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) ; I be sure that the whole House be reassure to know that he be not an alien . the first and only time I enter this Chamber before be swear in as a Member of Parliament be as a secondary school citizenship teacher , bring dozen of teenager here to see their Parliament . on that occasion , I be require to use my teacher voice a number of time , but that be not something I plan to make a habit of in this House . I begin by put on record my thank to my predecessor for the now abolish Copeland constituency , Trudy Harrison . we may disagree on matter of policy , but she have be unfailingly gracious to I and generous with her time , demonstrate the " country before party " approach that we can all learn so much from . I may be new to this House , but I be not new to push government to get thing do , as Opposition Members will know only too well , and I have work with a number of Education Secretaries over the year . I found and lead a national charity to get more people into fulfil career on the frontline of child ' s social work to ensure that every vulnerable child have a champion fight their corner . from that , I be ask by the last government to chair a landmark independent review of the child ' s social care system . that review find that the disadvantage face by the care - experience community in our country should be the civil right issue of our time . evidence of that disadvantage be find in bad education outcome , bad health outcome and short life , but that disadvantage be fuel by something that politician often find too hard to discuss , and that MPs certainly find too hard to mention in this Chamber : the absence of love . I believe every child have the right to be love , and we have the ability to build a care system that can provide that for they . I hope this Parliament will take up the challenge of address this moral outrage . the problem be huge , but the solution be know , and with enough will , ten of thousand of life can be transform . it be a great honour and privilege to stand here as the first Member of Parliament for the new Whitehaven and Workington constituency . whether it be the people of Whitehaven or the good people of Workington who be the jam eater continue to be a source of fierce debate . of course , I will remain neutral on that question , as I will on all rugby league - relate matter . nowhere be more blessed than my constituency , home to the high peak and the deep lake in England , with mile of beautiful coastline and the stunning western part of the Lake district , which have inspire million . let I here pay special tribute to our amazing mountain rescue volunteer , our Royal National Lifeboat Institution volunteer — just this week , it will be celebrate its 200th anniversary — and all those who give up their time to volunteer in search and rescue service . I have an interest to declare as a serve mountain rescue volunteer , and I will champion volunteer search and rescue service at every opportunity . behind the door of the town and village across my constituency , you will find the warm and friendly marra in the country , people forge by the drama and confidence of the surround landscape and people with humility , respect and determination at their core . these be people such as Gary McKee , who run a marathon every day for a year to raise over £ 1 million for cancer support ; those in the grow network of Andy ' s man club in our community , tackle the crisis of male suicide that my area face ; and community leader , such as Rachel Holliday of Calderwood House , give people a route out of homelessness . our area have also forge those who be not bear West Cumbrian , but who make our corner of the world their home , include pioneer and entrepreneur such as Frank Schon , later Baron Schon of Whitehaven . Frank be an austrian refugee who flee the Nazis , be bomb out of London and be take in by a kind cumbrian farmer . he go on to set up and lead a global chemical company base in Whitehaven , before later chair Harold Wilson ' s development corporation and go on to serve in the other place . today , my community be home to dozen of ukrainian family that could well have the next Frank Schon in they . I hope we can offer those who wish to stay a permanent home here in this country . Lord Schon be one famous example , but there be thousand of man and woman like he — from Whitehaven to Workington , Gosforth to Egremont , Cleator Moor to Seascale and Flimby to Seaton in the north of the constituency — pioneer , entrepreneur and grafter who have help west Cumbria to lead the world . it be because of this graft that my constituency be home to the UK New Balance trainer factory — I be not wear they right now — and the Iggesund paper mill , which have be experiment with lead carbon capture technology . it be home to Forth Engineering and React Engineering , and hundred of other business represent by Britain ' s Energy Coast Business Cluster , from the coal and iron mine to the steelwork . of course , there be the world ' s first civil nuclear power station at the site now famously know as Sellafield , home to a world - lead decommissioning mission , which be stimulate innovation in robotic and AI . we lead the world , and we can again . we have the people , the will , the determination and now , thankfully , the Government to do it . our nuclear heritage and our skilled workforce mean we have what it take to be the ideal location for the next generation of nuclear power . the Government be determined to make the most of new job in the energy transition , to reform our broken planning system and to decarbonise the grid , and these three thing offer the opportunity for the people of Whitehaven and Workington to fly . a Labour Government with a proper industrial strategy and the right target investment could completely transform the economic geography of my community . these be decision that need to be make to create the growth we have promise and to tackle the climate crisis our planet face . I be determined to play my part to deliver this Labour Government ' s mission and to ensure that west Cumbria feel the maximum possible benefit of the change we want to bring about for our country . I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech today , particularly the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , who give an excellent speech . as with many of the maiden speech , now I really want to visit his constituency . it just sound like an absolutely amazing place . I particularly congratulate all the new member who have come from a council background . be a local councillor set they up fantastically for come here . it mean they be under no illusion about the hard work that be require to be put in for their constituent and the people who live in their area . congratulation to all of they . I also congratulate the Chancellor on be the first female Chancellor . as the first woman in this place ever to lead on the economy , although I have be follow by a number since , I be incredibly glad to see one on the Government Benches . I hope that , as she say , her tenure last significantly long than those of some of the Chancellors we have see in recent time . today ' s debate be tagline " economy , welfare and public service " . apart from the maiden speech , speech focus on anything other than economic growth have be fairly few and far between . I will not for one second deny that economic growth be important , but the whole point of it be what we then do with it . it be about what we do with the extra tax take generate from the growth we have create . there be no point in have growth for growth ' s sake . there be no point in have economic growth , and no point in the Conservatives say how fast the UK be grow compare with other country in the G7 , if the same handful of people be get rich and rich and the vast majority of our constituent be struggle hard than they ever have before . we need to ensure that the economic growth and the increase in the tax take that the Labour party be hope to deliver involve a benefit for all those who live in these island and in our constituency . it be massively disappointing to hear that the five pledge and priority for the Labour party in government do not have eradicate child poverty at the heart of they . I be really glad the Government be bring together a discussion taskforce to reduce child poverty , but today they could bring 300 , 000 child out of poverty and move 700 , 000 child into less deep poverty simply by scrap the two - child cap . one of my previous colleague in this place , Alison Thewliss , campaign incredibly hard on the rape clause — everybody will know of the work she do on that . there be 3 , 000 woman across these island who be eligible for an exemption from the cap because they have apply under the rape clause . they have have to tell the government they be rape in order to get an uplift in their benefit . that be horrific , and even if the Government be unwilling to move on the two - child cap they should be do something about the rape clause and what people be have to prove in order to get the exemption . it would be very easy to increase growth , again overnight , by increase migration . migration to these island increase the amount of growth . the economy would immediately have grow if the Prime Minister have go to the summit with the EU leader this week and say " yes , free movement benefit we : it benefit our economy , benefit our society , benefit our young people , benefit our musician , and benefit so many different group and individual . it benefit our culture ; it make this place a well place to live . therefore we be sign up again to free movement . " we need only look at some of the past Budgets , such as a Budget George Osborne give from the Dispatch Box , when it have say in the Red Book that increase migration will increase the tax take because of the economic growth it will bring . my constituent and people across Scotland recognise that , and we will always argue for a well migration policy — and if the Government be not willing to do it for all of these island , we will argue for one tailor specifically to Scotland so that we can make our own decision that suit the need of our community and encourage that economic growth . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the King ' s Speech under a government commit to put country before party to improve life in this country . that be what I pledge to the people of Bedford and Kempston , whom I thank for put their faith in I again to work hard for they and to restore their faith in politic as a force for positive change . the last Government reduce our public service to a shadow of their former self . in 2019 a study jointly fund by Bedford borough council and the NHS find that Bedford borough be 40 % under - provide for in the primary care estate , despite a rapid growth in population since 2011 . HMP Bedford have be in and out of special measure , so I be pleased that the Government have already take action to improve the crisis in prison . I be also pleased to see early priority give to strengthen community police by increase number of officer and give they great power to deal with the antisocial behaviour that blight our community . I hope this Government succeed where the last Government fail in implement a fairer funding formula for Bedfordshire police . wrongly fund as a rural force , it be one of the lowest - fund force in the UK despite a £ 10 million year - on - year increase to £ 156 million for 2024 - 25 . the housing crisis be cause untold misery to many of my constituent , so I be pleased that building house will be a priority for our Government . it be indefensible that I know of parent who be begin the summer holiday live in hotel room without access even to a fridge or a microwave to prepare food for their child because no suitable social housing property be available . even food bank voucher be not help when basic staple such as UHT milk can not be keep fresh once open . More than 15 , 000 child and 17 , 000 adult be on waiting list for mental health treatment in the area cover by the NHS Bedfordshire , Luton and Milton Keynes integrate care board . for year the NHS provider have have the capital fund to bring in desperately need in - patient mental health facility , but the previous Government consistently refuse to provide the capital expenditure cover so that we could have those facility in Bedford . I hope the new Government ' s plan to get the NHS back on its foot include an overhaul of how new project be fund , because the exist capital departmental expenditure limit be not work . many of my constituent will be very happy to see planned legislation to bring rail back into public ownership and to reform bus service and franchise , include by allow local control and support public ownership , but one of the most significant transport issue in my constituency be East West Rail . Bedford be uniquely adversely impact by the East West Rail project , because the preferred six - track route require the demolition and blighting of home . resident have be in limbo for more than five year in unsellable home . the propose planning and infrastructure Bill will speed up planning decision for major infrastructure and house building and seek to reform compulsory purchase compensation rule to ensure that the compensation pay to landowner be fair . the statutory consultation stage be imminent , and I hope the Government will listen to the concern express by my constituent and will not leave people in limbo while decision be make without their knowledge , as have happen before . if we want to restore faith in politic , we have to ensure that our community come with we on plan to affect their life . the Universal Studios plan to build a park near Kempston be exciting , and I look forward to work with the Government to make sure we get this potentially huge investment opportunity for Bedford and Britain over the line . I start by wish his Majesty the very good of health on behalf of myself and my constituent . as we welcome many new member to the House , his Majesty set a clear standard for public service that we can all hope to emulate . I have have the privilege of listen to a number of maiden speech from across the House — all fantastic , all unique . I be sure all new member will have receive countless piece of advice , so I will just say this : none of we , new or return member , should ever forget what a privilege it be to serve in this House and in this Parliament , the mother of all Parliaments . we on the conservative Benches have much to be proud of in the legacy of the last 14 year . just last week we have see inflation remain at the Bank of England target rate of 2 % . we create more than 800 job a day for the last 14 year . it be under the Conservative Government that , in 2023 , the UK become the third most valuable tech economy in the world , worth $ 1 trillion . we also boast more billion - pound company than France , Germany and Sweden combine . as have be repeatedly mention , we have the fast - grow economy in the G7 . I want to address the notion that the Government be try to push , where they talk down the economy , pave the way for tax rise . it clearly do not stack up . if the Chancellor insist on push this alternative narrative , as we have hear today , some question need answering , because surely all those promise make during the election can not have be make by the Chancellor , or the shadow Chancellor as she be then , fly blind , especially when the OBR provide the transparency that she now deny she have . throughout the campaign , we hear about how the Government ' s policy be fully fund . if the Chancellor do not use the OBR forecast , what be she use to make those promise in the first place ? I do not think anyone be fool by this narrative or these tactic . most importantly , if they be go to raise taxis , which will they raise ? they need to come clean about that , because the british people deserve the truth , not whatever the Government be try to peddle to justify their tax and spend policy . the Government can be assure that the opposition will do our duty and hold this government to account . I want to address a number of thing in the King ' s Speech . I have to say I be astonish by the lack of respect in the King ' s Speech to rural community . a lot of my community in my rural area feel incredibly disrespect , and it be incredibly disappointing . I be also disappointed and deeply concerned by the Government ' s focus on build on the green belt . we have some of the most precious green belt land in Meriden and Solihull East , not least the Meriden gap , which be a hugely important throughway for migrate wildlife . it be not clear how the Government will protect the Meriden gap . in fact , the only thing that have be clear in the early day of this Government be that they be willing to set aside local community opinion , and anyone who challenge that will be accuse of be a nimby . my village in Balsall Common , Hampton in Arden , Marston Green , Knowle , Dorridge , Chadwick End and Hockley Heath have already make huge sacrifice when it come to green - belt land , not least because of hs2 . these top - down target and vague reference to grey - belt land be already cause huge anxiety . this matter because when it come to set aside community opinion and disenfranchise whole community , the tactic that the Government be already employ be the good way to do it . I be deeply concerned by that . we on the Opposition Benches will ensure that we hold this Government to account . the title of this debate include public service , and one of my key campaign pledge be to restore a & E service to the borough of Solihull . my argument on that be simple : we have about 220 , 000 people in the borough , and if there be an emergency , my constituent have to go all the way to Heartlands hospital or Warwick hospital , which be way too far away . it be clear to I that the case be strong . one thing I will be campaign for in this Parliament , whether it take five or 10 or 15 year , if I be lucky enough to be return repeatedly — I make no assumption on that , of course — will be to get that A & E service . I will be work with the integrate care board to achieve that . I will finish on this : my constituent and the british people have be clear . as we discharge our duty as his Majesty ' s official Opposition , their expectation be that we do so with integrity and humility , but always with courage and boldness in what we stand for and who we be . I assure my constituent that for the sake of our country we shall not falter . I call Kate Dearden to make her maiden speech . Mr Deputy Speaker , thank you for allow I to make my first contribution to this House . I thank the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) for his contribution to the debate . today ' s debate be a crucial one for how we rebuild our economy in a way that work for all . I be delighted to be join my many , many excellent new labour colleague in make their brilliant maiden speech . I be also delighted to follow the incredible Holly Lynch . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] holly dedicate her talent and energy to support her constituent . she be a casework champion who still find time to push for protection for our emergency service worker and for global cause , such as Fairtrade . holly ' s commitment be second to none , and I will do my good to follow in her footstep . in succeed Holly , I be proud to take my place in one of Parliament ' s great tradition : the labour woman of Halifax . since the election of Shirley Summerskill in 1964 , there have only be four year where Halifax have not be represent by a Labour woman . I be lucky to have the support of brilliant woman , from the Labour Women ' s Network to trade union colleague and my late teacher Elaine Barker who set I on the road to this House . I be stand on the shoulder of my sister , and I will not let they down . Halifax be a town burst with history . it be a centre of the wool trade and textile manufacturing , with the Piece Hall the most beautiful and well - know testament to our heritage , but there be far more to the history of Halifax than that . we have a magnificent minster , the impose Wainhouse Tower , and Shibden Hall , home of lesbian diarist Anne Lister . Halifax ' s industrial heritage have mean a close connection to socialist movement . it be a stronghold for Chartists , a centre of trade union activism and the birthplace of Halifax building society , and it have a legacy of co - operative movement . as a trade unionist and now a Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament , it be a history I be proud to celebrate , and celebrate our history have become a big part of Halifax ' s future . the Piece Hall be now one of the UK ' s good music venue . this summer it be host Idles , Tom Jones and the Ministry of Sound , and I will leave it to hon . member to guess who I would prefer to see . we have reimagine the beat industrial heart of Halifax at Dean Clough mill as a centre for art , culture , food and shopping . that , combine with the beautiful nature of the Calder valley , have see Halifax transform into Haliwood . many in this Chamber will have see " Happy Valley " , but there be also " Gentleman Jack " and " Last Tango in Halifax " , and we even host Marvel for its " Secret Invasion " . as a Member of Parliament for Halifax , I will lobby for any future edition of " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " to come and celebrate the home of toffee , Rolos and Quality Street . there be so many other thing that make Halifax a unique and special town , from our fabulous independent department store Harveys — where I buy today ' s lovely dress — to Eureka ! the museum where I and every other former schoolkid in the north of England go on school trip , and , of course , the famous Shay , home to Halifax Town and Halifax Panthers . I must also mention some of the challenge that my town still face . like most of the ex - industrial UK , we have face decade of neglect and under - investment . Halifax endure significant deprivation , with above - average level of unemployment and child poverty . access to housing be a problem , especially for young people , and the availability of GPs come up time and time again on the doorstep . the people of Halifax have struggle for too long with the cost of living crisis , low wage and poor public service . that have be the story of my town and of our country . as anyone who know Yorkshire will guess , the people of Halifax have do much to help each other . Halifax be the home of Andy ' s Man Club , which many member will know from its essential work to support man ' s mental health . I meet its volunteer as well as those of Healthy Minds , which be another great charity help tackle mental illness . Noah ' s Ark debt centre offer crucial financial support , and the Holy Nativity church in Mixenden be one of several organisation run a food bank and a pay - what - you - can caf é . Daisy Chain caf é provide a haven for the elderly to meet and socialise , and St Augustine ' s Centre give much need support to refugee . those brilliant community initiative have do their good to help those who have be struggle in recent year , and they have achieve much . however , we know that the buck stop with we and that we must address the issue face our nation and prove that thing can get well . these issue , when not address , lead to suffering , despair and anger . we on the Labour Benches can celebrate our success at the election , but a victory for our party be only ever a means to an end . our goal now be to bring about the change that we promise . I be proud to be deliver my maiden speech in this debate , where we set the agenda for what we will do to improve the life of everyone across the country . part of this be close to my own heart : the new deal for work people . in my previous role at the brilliant Community trade union , I be proud to be part of draft those aim alongside trade union colleague . the agenda on extend worker ’ right , include for those who be self - employ or part of the gig economy , be one that I want to champion over the next five year . I would like to end with a few thank yous . first , I thank all the people I have mention so far , who make Halifax the wonderful town that it be , for everything they do . secondly , to the incredible activist of Halifax — the labour team in our town should be the envy of constituency Labour party nationwide — I could not be more grateful . as every member in this House know , we be here because of those around we — the family , friend and colleague who support we — so I want to thank my wonderful friend , my mum , my dad , my sister , and my partner Brad . finally , I thank the people of Halifax for trust I . I will fight every day to achieve everything that I can for they and reward the faith that they have show in I . I call Ben Obese - Jecty to make his maiden speech . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be grateful to you for call I to make my maiden speech during this King ' s Speech debate on the economy , welfare and public service . I congratulate the hon . member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) on her maiden speech . as a former officer in the Duke of Wellington ' s Regiment , I note that her constituency have deep link with my former regiment , and indeed its antecedent regiment , the 33rd and 76th of Foot . it be fantastic to hear new member on both side of the House speak so passionately and eloquently about their constituency . I speak as the first new Member of Parliament for Huntingdon since 2001 , but I be only the third member in my lifetime , and the fourth Member since the second world war . it be therefore an enormous privilege to have be elect to represent the constituency , and I be honour to have be vote for by my constituent to follow such a long - serve Member of Parliament . my predecessor Jonathan Djanogly serve the House and his constituent for some 23 year . in Parliament he serve on the Trade and Industry Committee , as shadow Solicitor General and as a shadow Business Minister . in government , he be the parliamentary under - Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice . my predecessor ' s proud achievement come from the work that he deliver locally . his work on tackle flooding from the River Great Ouse see significant flood alleviation project deliver in St Ives and the Hemingfords , and far upstream in Godmanchester . that work have save thousand from the crippling impact of flood damage on home and business . I intend to build on that , deliver further flooding solution across the constituency for village such as Alconbury , Abbots Ripton , Wistow , Kimbolton , Broughton and Earith . my predecessor be also rightly proud of his work in facilitate the delivery of both the A14 and the a428 — road infrastructure project that have transform travel across Cambridgeshire , and stand to greatly enhance the region in its position at the tip of the UK innovation corridor . the development have set the condition for Huntingdon ' s future growth , offer the opportunity for well job and take advantage of the Cambridge cluster and expansion across the region , mean that Huntingdon can be a business hub in its own right , not just a dormitory town for London and Cambridge . despite the growth that Huntingdon have see over the past 60 year , first via the post - war London overspill and now via expansive development , the constituency be still characterise by its thrive town and vibrant village . from the market town of Huntingdon and St Ives to our rural village , from Sawtry to Somersham , Houghton to Hamerton , Covington to Colne and Pidley to Perry — and three dozen other that will not stretch to my tortured alliteration — each have their own character and identity . Huntingdonshire be a region with a rich history , and one that it will be a privilege to steward . that history extend to some of my other predecessor . many member will be aware that Huntingdon be the seat of a former Prime Minister , Sir John Major , who be still hold in the high regard across the constituency . it be an honour to receive his endorsement during the recent election campaign . famously , it be also the former seat of the Lord Protector , Oliver Cromwell . Cromwell be the Member of Parliament for Huntingdon in 1628 for just over a year until Charles I dissolve Parliament . Records show that he make just one speech in that time — so far , so equal . it be clear that Huntingdon expect a certain level of stature from its member of Parliament . notable as Sir John Major and Oliver Cromwell surely be , arguably they be not Huntingdon ' s most famous product . it be not even the celebrated diarist Samuel Pepys , who attend Huntingdon grammar school . in fact , that accolade should be award to a lunch - time staple that everyone be familiar with ; one that everyone have a favourite version of ; and one that some member may well have have for lunch this very day . John Montagu , three time First Lord of the Admiralty , Postmaster General and Secretary of State , be not notable for his political career or his colourful social life . John Montagu , whose family home be Hinchingbrooke House in Huntingdon , be well know today — somewhat arcanely — by his title and the moniker bestow upon his favourite snack to consume during long session at the card table . such be the popularity of say snack that other card player also wish to order it . they would cry , " I ' ll have the same as Sandwich . " it be obvious where this be go . John Montagu , the 4th Earl of Sandwich , be not prepared to break from the card table to eat , so would ask his servant to bring he slice of salt beef between two piece of toast bread . yes , among its formidable political alumnus , Huntingdon can also lay claim to a genuine global culinary revolution , describe by the Wall Street Journal no less as Britain ' s " big contribution to gastronomy " . Huntingdon be the birthplace of the modern sandwich — every day be a school day . I digress . Huntingdon ' s rich history be also characterise by an inextricable link to service via its long relationship with military aviation , initially through the Royal Flying Corps and subsequently during the second world war through RAF Bomber Command ' s Pathfinder force and the United States army air force ' s 303rd bombardment group . on 4 July 1942 , the US eighth air force fly the first american mission over Nazi - occupy Europe from RAF Molesworth . Latterly , during the cold war , RAF Alconbury see the US air force provide covert high - altitude reconnaissance along the east german border in a new variant of its famed U - 2 spy plane , in addition to provide battlefield damage assessment in the event of a nuclear strike . Most of that base be now Huntingdon ' s new housing estate , Alconbury Weald — surely the only housing development in the country with fully functional nuclear decontamination and washdown facility . RAF Warboys , RAF Upwood and RAF Brampton have all since disappear , but the constituency still retain those link . RAF Alconbury and RAF Molesworth be still operate by the United States air force , and RAF Wyton be on the cutting edge of our defence intelligence capability . those link carry through into the constituency itself and it be strike just how many veteran have make their home within its boundary . one in nine household within Huntingdon be home to a veteran , a staggering number when compare with other constituency and a community that , as a British Army veteran myself , I be proud to represent as their Member of Parliament — even if to many of those RAF veteran I be just a Pongo . I know well how important it be to support our veteran ' community and to commit to improve veteran ' welfare . have undergo the process myself , I know the transition from service to civilian life have its challenge , and there be many story of both success and failure . I serve on a veteran advisory and pension committee and know well how important it be to ensure that veteran be able to access the service they need . veteran ' identity card have help to open those pathway for many who would otherwise struggle to evidence their service , but I hope the Government will look closely at how support itself be provide . restructure Veterans UK and create a more comprehensive holistic offering , ease access via an overhauled veteran gateway , could streamline access to the welfare service that our veteran need . while the cohort of veteran in this House be small than in the previous Parliament , it be now young and sport member on both side who have more recent operational experience and , crucially , more recent experience of the often difficult post - military transition to a civilian life . Parliament be well - place to champion veteran ’ welfare and , give the debt our democracy owe to those who have serve so proudly , I hope we can collectively ensure that the fine armed force in the world be treat here as the fine veteran in the world . I know Huntingdon ' s veteran will expect I to challenge the Government to meet that standard . I be hugely proud of have be give this opportunity to serve Huntingdon , to be its champion both in Parliament and in the constituency . I look forward to meet the challenge ahead . I congratulate the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) on a fantastic maiden speech and in particular the passion with which he talk about veteran and the need for more support for veteran . I start by thank the people of Nottingham East for elect I once again to represent they in Parliament . it remain the honour of my life to represent my home city . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , who be a formidable champion for our city . she will be miss by the resident of Castle ward , which be now in my constituency follow the boundary review . what a contrast between this King ' s Speech and the last . for the first time in 14 year we have a set of policy that prioritise people ' s right and wellbee : policy that draw on the rich history of the Labour movement ; policy to help protect the right to strike , to enhance the right to flexible working , and to end fire and rehire . we also have policy that echo some of the great achievement of previous Labour Governments , which recognise the value of own and running service and infrastructure for the common good . the failure of previous conservative government to combat the climate crisis should terrify we all . we have so much catch up to do if we be to avert the chaos it threaten , so I welcome our Government ' s plan to speed up the transition to renewable through a publicly own clean energy company . and with a Bill to bring rail service back into public ownership , I hope to see far less regularly those chilling word : " rail replacement bus service " . I be also relieve to see the return of some policy that successive conservative Governments promise but never deliver : a Bill that will end no - fault eviction and improve renter ’ right ; and another that will ban so - call conversion " therapy " once and for all . I have hear from survivor the horrific impact these hate - fuel conversion practice have have on their life . to finally end they , it be right that such a Bill be trans - inclusive and it must be loophole - free . it be time to challenge the confected moral panic that be harm LGBTQ + people , in particular the trans community . this be not the 1980 and we be not go back there . instead of pit trans right against woman ' s right , our Government have an opportunity to demonstrate what improve woman ' s safety actually look like through deliver on our promise to halve violence against woman and girl . the constant harassment on our street and the hidden abuse in our home be what we need to prevent , not tran people use the bathroom they feel most comfortable in . the conservative party have make our society poor , more unequal and more authoritarian . from the 4 . 3 million child force to live in poverty — more than one in three in Nottingham East — to the destruction of our public service and the damage to our democratic system , our country be in crisis . the law that allow these thing to happen in the first place belong in the dustbin of history . we should start by scrap the two - child benefit cap , which would immediately lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty . this election deliver a historic victory for our party . our regular meeting of east midland Labour MPs use to be quite lonely affair ; well , they be not any more ! I welcome my new hon . friend to their place — their victory be justly deserve — but this be also a historic election for other reason that we can not afford to overlook . disillusionment with politic be provide fertile ground for those who wish to divide we , and if we be to keep the far right from gain further ground , status quo politic will not be enough . tweak to a fail neoliberal economic system will not deliver the improvement in living standard that people need , nor will they prepare we for the challenge of the future . with a historic victory , we have a historic responsibility to redistribute wealth and power into people ' s hand so that they feel the difference a Labour Government can make . the measure in the King ' s Speech be important first step in that direction , but let we turn they into bold stride in the come month and year . I could not finish my first speech in the new Parliament without highlight the unbearable situation in Gaza . Palestinians need a ceasefire now ; indeed , they need one nine month ago . I welcome the shift in my party ' s position over recent month , and I welcome the restoration of funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , but when british weapon be continue to be use in contravention of international law — order . the hon . Lady ' s time be up . it be an honour to return to the House and to represent resident of this new constituency . constituent tell I that the issue that matter to they most be health and social care , rural affair , housing and local service . about 2 . 5 million people be out of work with long - term sickness , so the challenge for this Government be to fix the health and care crisis , because a healthy economy require a healthy nhs . this new Parliament present an opportunity to work collaboratively to fix many of the issue plague my constituent . there be a dental provision cavity in Somerset . there be no dentist in Glastonbury and Somerton take on new NHS patient . one practice in Street have not have an NHS dentist in post for 18 month , although the job have be advertise continuously . I be sure that all member have hear many heartbreaking story from people suffer in dental agony . I recently speak to Ian from Langport , who tell I that he be unable to access the crucial NHS healthcare that he need . his only option be private dental treatment , which will cost he more than £ 3 , 000 . for Ian and for so many other , this be simply unaffordable . it be no wonder that resident be leave open - mouthed when they hear that £ 8 million be underspent on NHS dentistry in Somerset last year alone . nhs dental contact need reform urgently , and the recruitment crisis must be unblocked . People be also wait long to see a gp . last year the number of four - week wait rise by 49 % in Somerset . the number of GPs must increase in order to guarantee patient the right to see a gp within a week , or within 24 hour if the situation be urgent . by improve local frontline service , we will reduce pressure on our hospital . I be delighted to visit a rural health hub during the last Parliament , and I call on the Government to maintain support for such hub because they have prove that they offer flexible and accessible healthcare provision for our rural and farming community . this week be Farm Safety Week , and it mark the 10th anniversary of the Farm Safety Foundation , an organisation that I be proud to work alongside to highlight the key challenge face by farmer and farm worker every day . People work in agriculture be 21 time as likely to be injure at work compare with the national average , while 95 % of farmer under 40 agree that poor mental health be the big problem face the industry today . the agricultural sector be crucial to the rural economy , and farming be vital to UK food security , but inflationary pressure continue to damage farm business , and the mismanage transition from the basic payment scheme to environmental land management scheme be force many farmer out of business . food security also require fair access to international market , but the last Government ' s botched trade deal damage that . those deal undermine our nation ' s health and our environmental and animal welfare standard , and they must urgently be renegotiate . to protect the rural economy , there need to be fairness in the food chain , and the grocery code adjudicator need more tooth . that would support our farmer and protect consumer from unfair price rise . Glastonbury and Somerton be home to some of the lowest - lie land in the country , so a serious commitment to food security require a robust approach to flood management . of course , agricultural land will always play a vital role in prevent flood damage to urban area , but this can not be at the expense of agricultural business , which need to be properly compensate for the sacrifice they make . ensure that water be manage correctly also mean manage the nutrient load of river and lake . we require legislation to ensure that nutrient enrich and improve our soil , rather than be leech away into our river , which add to the pollution crisis . make such reform would unlock the 18 , 000 home in Somerset that already have plan permission and be currently wait to be build . the new Government have pledge to make that possible , and I welcome the new Secretary of State for Housing ' s recent commitment on this issue . I eagerly wait to hear the Government ' s plan , because there be a serious shortage of home and a solution be desperately need . however , I be clear that home must be build in the right place and to the good possible environmental standard , and they must be deliver with the infrastructure that community so desperately need . after year of an out - of - touch conservative Government take we all for grant , I be look forward to have the opportunity to work together to deliver the ambitious change we desperately need . I call Lizzi Collinge to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have be precede by many wonderful first speech , particularly from the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and my fellow cumbrian representative , my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , to whom I say , " Areet , marra ? " I would like to start my first speech by pay tribute to my predecessor , David Morris . I know he knock on a lot of Ministers ' door to get funding for Eden Project Morecambe , and I thank he for it . I make a solemn promise to he that I would deliver Eden Project Morecambe and make it work for local people . thank to boundary change , I have two other predecessor . Morecambe and Lunesdale have gain a tract of beautiful Westmorland that be formerly represent by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I know from speak to his former constituent that the hon . Member be highly regard and leave some big boot to fill . I also gain Lower Lune Valley ward from my good friend and mentor , my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) . when I join the Labour party in 2014 after the birth of my first child , my hon . friend invite I for a brew . I think this be a very kind gesture . little do I know what she have in store for I . I hope she now feel that the aching arm she get from my particularly enormous newborn be well worth it . I would also like to pay tribute to the Labour Women ' s Network and the 50 : 50 Parliament campaign for their tireless work and collective effort to see more woman member elect . I would be remiss if I do not mention my predecessor , Geraldine Smith , who be extremely well regard in the constituency . and what a constituency it be . Morecambe and Lunesdale be definitely the most beautiful constituency in the country . from the golden sand of Middleton , through the beautiful art deco building and stunning sunset of Morecambe , up the lush Lune valley , across the Arnside and Silverdale national landscape , and into the wild beauty of Westmorland , you would be hard push to find a well place to live or work . my constituency have a diverse set of town and village , all with their own need and fantastically strong community . their difference should be respect and celebrate . where their need overlap , often the solution need to be tailor to their specific circumstance . in constituency such as Morecambe and Lunesdale , one size do not fit all , so as our new Government deliver their ambitious programme of national renewal , I will ensure that the voice of all my community be hear . my aim be to be a good constituency MP . for I , there be no more honourable ambition , and I be extremely grateful to all the people who support I and enable I to have that honour . in his Majesty ' s most Gracious Speech , we hear about the Government ' s plan to reform our bus system , and as a proud member of the Lancaster District Bus Users Group , I welcome that warmly . I also warmly welcome the new Government ' s dedication to farming and rural community . in his contribution in this place last week , the Secretary of State set out a new deal for farmer , action on water pollution and plan to tackle the nature emergency . speak of nature , in Morecambe the shrimp be not only part of the local fauna , and a local delicacy that come highly recommend , but the local football team , and I look forward to deliver on my promise to they of a new independent football regulator . before join this Chamber , I serve as a Lancashire county councillor for eight year , and in that time I have specialise in health and social care and serve on our health scrutiny committee . I be sure that member across the Chamber will agree that we expect the high standard of care for our constituent , so I pay tribute to the many patient and health campaigner who have work so hard to ensure safe , equitable care for all . many a health and care leader in Lancashire and South Cumbria have meet I across a committee table . I hope that they find I a fair , if sometimes firm , scrutineer . I be a humanist . humanist be people who shape our life in the here and now , because we believe it be the only life we have , and what be politic if not shape life in the here and now ? humanist try to treat everyone we come across with warmth , understanding and respect . we believe that we human have everything we need : logic , reason , evidence , and empathy to make good , ethical decision . it be these value that I hope to bring to my role in decision making in this place , so I welcome our Government ' s focus on service , integrity and honesty . if we be to rebuild trust in politic , we must adhere to those principle rigorously , and I be sure that member across the Chamber will do so . finally , I dedicate this speech to my family : my mum and dad , who bring I and my sister Hannah up with good moral and lot of love ; my husband Miles for always have my back and take on an unfair share of the family duty , alongside a full - time role with the NHS ; my kid for put up with mummy be away so often ; and my grandma and grandad , who we lose in 2022 . Grandma , remember her parent ' hard upbringing — they experience sometimes abject poverty — always vote Labour , much to the annoyance of my working - class Tory grandad . when I be first elect to the county council , grandad tell I , " Ey Liz , I ' m reyt proud of you . it ' s a pity you ' re on the wrong side ! " my grandad might not have be a labour supporter , but he do believe in service , and I look forward to work with member across the House to serve our country and my people in Morecambe and Lunesdale . a maiden speech : I call Alex Easton . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to say well do to the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) for her maiden speech . congratulation ! I rise today to express my heartfelt gratitude to the electorate of North down for the tremendous privilege of elect I to represent they in the House of Commons . I be so humble and privileged , and I pledge before God to serve they to the good of my ability . I will always put you first . I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the work of my predecessor , Dr Stephen Farry . I wish he every success in his future endeavour . I be a proud Ulsterman , and anyone who know Ulstermen and Ulsterwomen will know that we be very generous and love to meet new people , so I would like to take this opportunity to invite everyone to visit North down . it be the good part of the United Kingdom to live , work and invest in . our stunning coastline feature the beautiful city of Bangor and Crawfordsburn country park , alongside historical site such as Bangor abbey and Grey Point fort . north Down be also home to exceptional golf course , include the Holywood golf club , where the brilliant Rory McIlroy hone his skill from the age of seven . with excellent road and rail access to Belfast , North Down offer a perfect blend of natural beauty and modern amenity . please come and visit ; you will be welcome . maybe not all at once , though . I would like to extend a warm welcome to the distinguished right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) in his new role as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I wish he every success . I fully support the plan lay out in the King ' s Speech that aim to deliver economic prosperity and kick - start growth . the partnership approach with the Northern Ireland Assembly be particularly welcome , and I be encourage by the figure from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs show that Northern Ireland have record the fast year - on - year job growth for the second consecutive month , significantly outperform other part of the United Kingdom . furthermore , I be encourage to note that median monthly wage growth in Northern Ireland be outpace that in other part of the United Kingdom , position we fifth among the 12 UK region . it be imperative that we build on this economic success and translate it into improved quality of life and regeneration in North Down . we must also be mindful of the fact that most of Northern Ireland ' s trade be across the vital east - west axis with Great Britain , alongside the important , albeit less , north - south corridor with the Republic of Ireland . accord to the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , sale and export along the east - west corridor between Great Britain and Northern Ireland be value at £ 12 . 8 billion in 2021 . in comparison , sale and export between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland total just £ 5 . 2 billion . this highlight why the Union of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be invaluable and should be cherish , as it enhance economic quality of life for all our people and community across Northern Ireland . we can look to our Ulster Scots heritage in Donaghadee and Millisle as prime example of outstanding development , spearhead in the early 17th century by two distinguished figure : Sir James Hamilton , first Viscount Claneboye , and Sir Hugh Montgomery , first Viscount Montgomery . their legacy should serve as inspiration for the ongoing economic development of Donaghadee and North Down , particularly in area of industry and infrastructure . however , not all be well in my constituency . the Queen ' s Parade project in Bangor have see Queen ' s parade lie derelict for decade . our minor injury unit have be close , and we have no open police station inquiry office — I bet no one else in this Chamber have no open police station inquiry office in their constituency . People in my constituency can not see their gp , the road be full of pothole and there be a lack of social housing and new starter home for young family who want to start on the housing ladder . I really hope that this Government will help to improve my constituent ' live . it be essential to note that the Northern Ireland protocol be fundamentally flawed . it create a de facto border in the Irish sea , undermine the integrity of the UK by separate Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK . this arrangement have lead to increase bureaucracy , hurdle and trade barrier , disrupt economic stability and supply chain . furthermore , it have cause political and social tension in Northern Ireland , raise legitimate concern among Unionists about their place in the United Kingdom . I contend that by prioritise the EU ' s regulatory framework over the wish of the people of Northern Ireland to be a full part of the UK , the protocol disregard democratic principle and subject we to foreign law . it need to be change . it need to go . finally , I want to mention my parent . my mum and dad be kill in a fire at their home in Bangor last year , and it cause a lot of heartache for I . I want to say that my dad believe in I . after four attempt to get to Westminster , I finally succeed . Dad , I hope I make you proud . when you have everything take away from you like that , it make you realise just how important your family be . it make you see everything that you have take for grant throughout your life , such as the health service , which have always be there for we . I appreciate the people in the health service and the Police Service of Northern Ireland who try to help my mum and dad — I so much appreciate you . I also pay tribute to the Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service , who do everything in their power to help my mum and dad . I just want to let you know that I appreciate everything you have do for my family . I mean that from the bottom of my heart . rise — order . it be my intention to start the wind - up at around 9 . 30 pm . I speak for the whole House when I say to the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) that I know his father would definitely be proud of he today , and of the work that he will go on to do in the House . he should take that with he in every step in this place . his parent would be , and be , proud of he . I congratulate he on his maiden speech . I thank my constituent in Blackpool South for re - elect I as their Member of Parliament for the second time in as many month . it feel a lot nice speak from the Government Benches than from the Opposition Benches . hopefully I will do my constituent proud . the legislation announce last week be important to my constituent , who , after 14 year of Tory rule , live in the second most deprived constituency in the UK . they have be deprive of opportunity , decent healthcare , quality housing and safety . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak about some of those issue on their behalf today . many colleague in this House will have visit my constituency at some point in their life , perhaps for a party conference , a childhood holiday or a cheeky weekend away . Blackpool be not a place people pass through , and the chaos of the railway under the last Government have leave we abandon at the end of the line . I be relieved that this Government plan to bring our railway back into public ownership . a reliable and affordable service will allow my constituent to access well opportunity . the King ' s Speech give the rest of the House the opportunity to recognise Lancashire ' s potential for growth . like our Greater Manchester , Merseyside and West Yorkshire neighbour , Lancashire would benefit greatly from a devolution deal , and an elect metro mayor who have power over transport , road , urban regeneration , skill and housing . I will work alongside my fellow Lancashire Members in this House and council leader to secure the good devolution possible for our county . this morning , the Environment Agency issue a pollution warn across my constituency ' s coastline and advise against enter our water . this be the fifth day since my re - election that such a warning have be issue . that be unacceptable . it not only threaten tourism but my constituent ' health , wellbeing and sense of local pride . local campaign group Fylde Coast against Sewage deserve recognition for its hard work test the water of our shore . the water special measure Bill will strengthen the power of the regulator , so that Blackpool resident can hope to once again reap the benefit of our great natural asset . though the town have serve the working class with entertainment , work in Blackpool be precarious , and often poorly pay , insecure and seasonal . the employment right Bill , which will ban exploitative practice and enhance employment right , will transform the life of work people in Blackpool , just as the former Labour Government do for my family . as a fellow work - class northerner , the Deputy Prime Minister know that she have my full support for her pioneer new deal for work people . thousand of my constituent be set to receive a pay rise that will help lift they out of poverty . I be pleased that legislation will be bring forward to strengthen community police and give the police great power to deal with antisocial behaviour , as well as strengthen support for victim . Reclaim Blackpool Map be a grassroots project run by woman in the town , highlight the prevalence of public sexual harassment . as a white ribbon ambassador for over five year , I have be work to educate man , young people and boy in my community . I know that the new Minister for safeguarding will work tirelessly to tackle violence against woman and girl , and she have my full support . Blackpool be a place of great resilience , where people muster to fight against the odd . that be tangible in March 2019 when I join thousand of fan return to Bloomfield Road after the successful boycott campaign to remove the corrupt owner of Blackpool FC . huge credit go to Blackpool Supporters Trust , whose campaign restore integrity , pride and professionalism to the club . the football governance Bill be a step in the right direction towards return the game to the fan who make it what it be . I can not talk about football fan without acknowledge the 97 who will finally get justice under this Government ' s Hillsborough law . in conclusion , there will be many measure of success for this Government , but one important symbolic one will be the success of Blackpool . as a Member of Parliament , I will be fight to ensure that the people of Blackpool South be no long at the back of the queue . I call Victoria Collins to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I thank the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) for his passionate speech and join he in his comment about the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) , to whom I pass on my massive congratulation and say that I be sure that his father would be extremely proud of his position here and of the public service that he will give . I stand here exactly 50 year since my mum come to the UK from Malaysia . she come here for an education and stay to build a business and raise a family . as I help in my mum ' s shop , my parent instill in I value of community , tolerance and perseverance — something that I hope will guide I during my time as an MP . one of my predecessor , Bim Afolami , also proudly share his story as a child of immigrant in search of a good education . he bring the value that he learn to his role as MP for Hitchin and Harpenden . it be a real honour to be the first MP for the brand new seat of Harpenden and berkhamste . More than just two town , the constituency be a rich tapestry that fill the north - west corner of Hertfordshire with history , natural beauty , culture and innovation . we be a collection of proud and vibrant community with four beautiful chalk stream and the Grand Union canal tie we together like silver thread . the River Bulbourne run through Berkhamsted , where the Crown of England be surrender to William the Conqueror in 1066 , and its river course would go on to fill the three moat of berkhamsted castle . the River Gade start near Little Gaddesden , which neighbour the Ashridge estate — somewhere member may have see in film and drama such as " Robin Hood " , " the Crown " and , of course , " Bridget Jones ' s Diary " . member of the House be most welcome to join I locally at the Rex cinema or peruse one of the large film collection in the world at the British Film Institute ' s national archive . as we swoop across the constituency , the River Ver exit above ground near the village of Markyate , traverse by the Roman Watling Street , and continue through Flamstead and Redbourn . our final chalk stream , the River Lea , flow through Harpenden and Wheathampstead , a Domesday village that have be home to two Prime Ministers . not only have these precious chalk stream witness historic event and the life , hope and dream of countless local people , but , with only around 200 of they in the world , they be of rare ecological importance ; they be know as England ' s rainforest . sadly , however , we have see their decline , as sewage have be pump into the waterway , with the River Ver , have finally recover its flow , see more than 2 , 500 hour of sewage discharge this year alone . the same fate go for the Grand Union canal , where people can jump out at Tring . although they may not be able to see zebra or cassowary in Tring park any more , they can visit they in our natural history museum . People in our part of Hertfordshire be proud of their natural landscape , and I join they in campaign to protect our environment and tackle the climate crisis . the other side of our local community blossom from the industrial revolution , which bring another type of silver track — the train line . Rumour have it that some of the original commuter be still wait for that rail replacement bus service . Britain initially lead the world in railway , but the decline of our public transport feel as if it gather pace year on year . bus service that be vital to our town and rural community have be cut by more than half in Hertfordshire in recent year , and that be not to mention the cut to local authority that have impact other vital service . we be not immune to the health and social care crisis , either , as local people struggle to get the care they need , wait week to see a gp or can not find an NHS dentist . indeed , one of my other predecessor , Mike Penning , who serve Hemel Hempstead for 19 year , campaign tirelessly on healthcare for the area . I aim to continue as a champion of ensure that local people get the healthcare they need , and close to home . local people have continue the enterprise spirit of the area , which still thrive today , from build e - bike to distil gin , create start - up and innovate in agriculture at Rothamsted Research , with its thrive agritech hub . indeed , our great asset be our local people — open - minded , tolerant , hard - work and compassionate . it be for they , and thank to they , that I be here , and I will always put they first . give the picture often paint of our corner of Hertfordshire , member might think that we be solely an affluent commuter area , but that be far from the reality for everyone . so many family , individual and local business be struggle to make end meet as bill continue to rise . I remember the struggle that my family face when the economy turn and business get tough . that be why I be passionate about support local family , tackle inequality , and not just the vital local business that we value today but the entrepreneur and enterprise of tomorrow . stand here , in the most diverse Parliament that we have ever see , we see that we have a real opportunity for change . we must act now to rebuild the trust in politician and politic that have sadly be erode in recent year . for I , that mean put local people first — the people of Harpenden , berkhamste , Tring and our village , from Long Marston to Jersey Farm , and from Ringshall to Sandridge . think back to where my story begin , it be a privilege to be in this place , represent a story that so many other in our country have some share in . my mother come to this country in search of opportunity , and through her own hard work she find it . through everything that I do here , I want to ensure that the same opportunity be available for all who seek it out , and I will continue to be guide by those value of community , tolerance and perseverance . I call Luke Akehurst to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) on a fine speech , and a very impressive description of her constituency and her motivation for come to this place . it have take I some time to get elect to the House . I first stand in a general election back in 2001 , so no one can accuse I of be a young man in a rush . I be humble to finally be here , have do some other thing in party politic along the way . I pay tribute to my late mum and dad , who inspire I to get involve in politic . they give I my labour value , and I be sorry that they just miss out on the chance to see I get here . I also thank my family for their huge support , include lot of campaigning and lot of patience , as my speech have come rather late in this debate . I thank the elector of North Durham for vote for I to represent they in this House . I promise that I will always fight for their interest , and I could not want to represent a fine constituency . I follow into the House the right hon . Kevan Jones . he be an extremely tough act to follow , and I wish he well both in overcome his health trouble and in his new role , have be elevate to the other place . Kevan be elect MP for North Durham in 2001 , and serve the constituency and this House with distinction for 23 year . he be utterly commit to the defence and security of our country , serve as a Defence Minister , with multiple stint on the Defence Committee . he be the long - serve member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , a vice - president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , and a commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . that be highly appropriate , give the number of veteran in the North Durham constituency — particularly people associate with the Durham Light Infantry . I be sure that in the other place Kevan will continue to work on defence and other issue , such as the sub - postmaster ' campaign for justice . his continued work on the Horizon redress advisory board will give reassurance to victim . Kevan will continue to pursue an outcome for sub - postmaster who use the Capture software in the 1990 , which be currently the subject of an independent investigation that be commission by the Government early this year . many hon . member will know that Kevan be a keen photographer , often capture and share the beauty of North Durham . countless voter and local organisation have tell I how much they have be help by Kevan . he be hold in high regard not just across this House but across North Durham . I have be elect in a long line of Labour Members , all , as far as I can discern , from the same moderate tradition in the party that I stand in , and include distinguish Front Benchers such as Giles Radice and Jack Lawson , who serve as Attlee ' s Secretary of State for War in the closing day of world war two . the Chester - le - Street part of my constituency have a unique distinction in the history of the Labour party , have return a Labour Member to the House continuously since 1906 — so no pressure on I to keep win at all . however , that long Labour history do not mean that North Durham be a safe seat . in every characteristic other than never have be lose , it be a red wall seat and have be electorally competitive in the last two contest . indeed , this most recent election campaign be rather lively than I would have prefer . Chester - le - Street be only one part of North Durham under its current boundary , however , with the other major town be Stanley . the constituency be rural — surprisingly so . aside from the two main town , there be numerous village . I may get into trouble for not list some of they , but I will try to list the major one : Sacriston , Tantobie , Tanfield , Beamish , Bournmoor , Lumley , Pelton , Pelton fall , Craghead , Ouston , Lanchester , Burnhope , Castleside and Annfield Plain be just some of they . I wish to thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , who previously represent Lanchester , Burnhope and Castleside in the North West Durham constituency in the last Parliament , and who have be most courteous and helpful in handing over responsibility for those fine community . I urge hon . member to visit North Durham . as well as fine town and village , it have stunning countryside and attraction include Beamish , the world - famous open - air museum that bring the history of north - east England to life , and Durham county cricket club ' s Riverside ground . Kevan always describe North Durham as a rural constituency with urban problem , and that remain the case . mining be at the heart of the history and previous economy of North Durham . almost every village have a pit wheel memorial ; many also have memorial to terrible mining disaster , and many have lodge banner that be parade at the Durham gala . the decline of the industry over many decade and its eventual destruction in the 1980 , along with the closure of other major local employer , leave terrible economic and social scar and a sense that some community in the constituency have be leave behind . level up , if it reach anywhere , do not reach the proud community that elect I . that bring I to the local importance of the topic of today ' s debate : economy , welfare and public service . North Durham need economic stability and growth . it be a travesty that there be so many family dependent on food bank . it need new skilled and well - pay job in the industry of the future . it need investment and procurement decision by the Government to be target at create job where they be most need . North Durham need a fairer distribution of public spending . change to the local government funding formula over the last 14 year have be unfair and remove resource from authority such as Durham county council that be deal with the high level of deprivation , and hamper their ability to deliver effective local service . that urgently need to be change in the next local government funding settlement . capital spending on public service be also urgently need . on Friday , I visit Sacriston academy , a primary school , and be horrify to find excellent teacher deliver high - quality education , but in a setting that be literally fall down , with ceiling hold up by scaffold joist and whole classroom , build in 1910 — indeed , famous former pupil include Bobby Robson — now unusable due to water penetration through the ceiling and wall . local child deserve so much well . public transport in the constituency be not fit for purpose . we need more frequent and reliable bus and more train stop at Chester - le - Street . we also need the economic regeneration of local town centre . the once thriving Front Streets of Chester - le - Street and Stanley be run down and need new life . I thank the House for listen to I today . I look forward to contribute to debate here and to fight tenaciously for the cause of North Durham and its people and the wide north - east . order . I apologise to any Back Benchers who have not be able to get in , but I be afraid we now have to move to the wind - up , and I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) on an excellent maiden speech that highlight the value of equality and fairness — principle that many of we can agree on — and on demonstrate his stamina by be the last member to be call . with that level of stamina , I be sure that he will give the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) a run for his money . it be an honour to sum up for the Liberal Democrats . once again , I extend a warm welcome to new Ministers and to our country ' s first female Chancellor . I also congratulate new member from all party who give their maiden speech today . their speech do not disappoint ; they be poignant , funny and burst with passion . when I give my maiden speech in 2019 , I be very proud to say that St Albans have more pub per square mile than anywhere else in Britain , and today ' s maiden speech have give we enough historical nugget for a maiden speech pub quiz — maybe I will write it on the train journey home . I be pleased that the topic of economy , welfare and public service have be bring together . why ? well , during the general election , the Liberal Democrats put health and care front and centre of our campaign , and we do so for two reason . first , it be the no . 1 issue that constituent raise with we on the doorstep . every single person be impact by the crisis in health and social care . secondly , we know that health creation and wealth creation be two side of the same coin . we can not have a thriving economy if our population be sick . we Liberal Democrats set out an ambitious agenda during the general election , and we be pleased about some of the pledge in the King ' s Speech . we be pleased that there will be reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 , which be incredibly long overdue , and a number of other public health measure — especially on the protection of child ' s health . however , we in this House all know that it be equally important to tackle the social and commercial determinant of health , and tackle child poverty be just as important as tackle the aggressive marketing of vape and energy drink . that be why scrap the two - child benefit limit be in our Liberal Democrat amendment . it be also important that we focus on access to health and social care service . People must be able to access the care that they need when they need it . that be where the Liberal Democrats want to see more ambition . we need to fix our crumble hospital , we need mental health hub in community , we need to boost our gp number , we need to guarantee that people have a legal right to see their gp within seven day , and we need to put an end to dental desert . we all know someone who have have cancer and die , or someone who have have cancer and survive , but in every single year from 2015 , the Conservative Government miss their cancer treatment target . we can not allow that to continue . that be why we Liberal Democrats want there to be a legal right — through a statutory duty on Ministers — for this House and the public to hold Ministers to account on ensure that people can see a gp and get their cancer treatment when they need it . we Liberal Democrats will also be unapologetic and unrelenting in our focus on social care . we have campaign for free personal care , and we will continue to do so . free personal care be good for people ' s independence and dignity , and for the NHS . it would also enable the many million of unpaid carer , who currently pick up the piece of a broken social care system , to up their hour , do more work , return to work and boost our economy . health creation and wealth creation be two side of the same coin . we look forward to see the Government ' s employment right Bill with interest . we Liberal Democrats have campaign for improved pay for care worker , include by propose a high minimum wage start at £ 2 more , but that have to come with improved investment so that local government no long have to rob Peter to pay Paul . we can no long suppress the pay of experienced care worker to fund improved pay for new starter . we must stop rip the heart out of a retention strategy just to tackle recruitment . we have to do both . the King ' s Speech be also an opportunity to go far on care . it be an opportunity to introduce pay carer ' s leave , make care a protect characteristic , create a royal college of care worker , introduce measure to tackle to scandal of carer ' s allowance overpayment , and put in place a framework for cross - party talk that would finally put social care on a firm financial footing for the future . I recognise that the King ' s Speech be an opportunity for the Government to set out their priority , but I hope very much that many of these idea — particularly for fix social care — may be announce in due course . as our party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , have say , the liberal Democrats will continue to be the voice of carer in this Parliament . if we want to boost the economy , we have to recognise that there be now several stage to people ' s life and career . there have to be lifelong learning , upskille and reskille from cradle to grave , but we still have to make sure that every child have the good start in life . at the moment under the current system , many child — particularly those with special educational need and disability — be put at a big disadvantage from the get - go , and a huge part of that be SEND funding . as one quick example , my area of Hertfordshire be one of the poorest fund education authority for SEND . under the Conservatives ' funding formula , it would take 15 year for child in Hertfordshire to catch up with those in neighbouring Buckinghamshire , itself one of the poorest fund education authority . that be an entire generation of lose young child and lose education because of a Government spreadsheet formula . it be just another unforgivable legacy of the Conservative Government , and I implore the Labour Government to look at this issue with fresh eye and real urgency . another engine of our economy be small business and high street . many speaker this afternoon , include many people give their maiden speech , have talk about the high street and local business that be the glue that hold our community together . I would like to push the Government to go far , particularly on reform business rate . some people may remember that in the aftermath of the mini - Budget , the ex - Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , have spend the summer campaigning for a complete overhaul of the business rate system . on his first day in the job , I challenge he on whether he would in fact review that system . he give I a wry smile from across the Chamber and say that he regret campaign so hard for it from the Back Benches . that review be leave in the " too hard " basket ; it be part of a long list of challenge face the Labour Government , unfortunately with a similar refrain , but I implore Labour Ministers not to do the same . sit in their in - tray will be the result of the high street taskforce , which I be sure will confirm what we already know : that the business rate system be break , crippling high street — particularly heritage pub — while Amazon warehouse be be give a tax break . that system be not the foundation of a fair economy . to conclude , there be measure in the King ' s Speech that we welcome , but we want to see far great ambition for our high street , our child and our public service , particularly health and social care . we believe that our amendment to the Address go some way towards address those thing , and we urge member to support it . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . I congratulate everybody who have make their maiden speech in this debate . it be a big moment in one ' s parliamentary career , but you be out the other side and nothing will be quite as traumatic as what you have experience today . to go through they very briefly , I thank the hon . member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) , who tell we that her great - grandfather — I think — come from Lithuania to set up a store in the middle of her constituency , which be her connection with it . the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) pay a very generous tribute to Mike Freer and the danger and intimidation that he face . she be also generous to Mrs Thatcher — she be clearly a very generous lady . the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) pay tribute to Grant Shapps and his numerous and frequent Cabinet position , as well as his commitment to Ukraine . the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) pay tribute to the 190 labour woman mp who be now in the House , as well as to Harriet Harman . my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) manage to weave King John and A . e . Housman into his speech , and inform we that Hollywood be not a city on the west coast of the United States , but be actually within his constituency . if you want to see film star , lady and gentleman , go to Bromsgrove . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) have the peculiarity of have three forebear who be still member of this House . he be generous to each of they , which show that he be a wise man and will go far . the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) stress the industrial and shipping heritage of his constituency , and how it be indeed bombard by the Germans in world war one , but it give as good as it get . my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) praise his predecessor , Matt Hancock , of course focus on racing and horse — although not , I notice , on horseplay as such . the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) focus , with great pride , on the Hitachi Rail company in his constituency — shortly , I be afraid to tell he , to be seize by the Labour party and nationalise as part of its Government programme . my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) stress defence spending , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) leasehold reform and the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) the importance of agriculture . I be out of the Chamber for the speech of the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , and the Whip ' s note simply say , " he say that there be a cat rub his leg " , or something to that effect . [ laughter . ] represent a highly rural constituency as I do , I know that strange thing do occur , particularly late on those dull winter evening . the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) stress the importance of child in care . the hon . member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) refer to her constituency as the new " Haliwood " , so another Hollywood reference there . I think my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) give a very witty speech , and stress the association with the RAF in his commitment to veteran . the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) pay tribute to David Morris and his support for the Eden project , and I be particularly pleased to see she do that . the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) make I think one of the most moving maiden speech that we have hear in this House for a very long time . he speak very movingly about his parent , and we all know what pride his dad would have have in the fact that he have be successful in his fourth attempt to join we here in the House of Commons . the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) reference the fact that a roman road — watle Street — run through her constituency and speak passionately about the importance of community and tolerance . finally , the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) speak warmly of Kevan Jones , whom all of we who have be in this House for a while remember with great fondness , and the importance of skilled and well - pay job in his constituency . I hope that I have pretty much covered everybody and say the main thing that need say . let we now turn to the debate itself , and it seem to I that the right hon . member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , while I congratulate she warmly on be the first female Chancellor — I think that be a huge achievement and be to be very warmly welcome — be , I be afraid , suffer from some level of amnesia . she appear to have forget the legacy that we have bequeath to she . inflation , which be up at over 10 % last autumn , be now back to target . mortgage rate be soften , real wage have be grow in each of the last 11 month and taxis have be come down more recently under the previous Government . when it come to debt , we be on target , as we hand over to the right hon . Lady , to see debt fall in line with her own fiscal target at the end of the fifth year , and we of course have the fast grow economy in the G7 . one wonder where this amnesia be come from , and it be of course nothing more than smoke and mirror . it be to cover up the fact that the Chancellor be roll the pitch to raise taxis . against all the commitment she make during the general election , she will be raise those taxis in the autumn . it will not be because we have bequeath she something of which she be not aware in advance . the IFS have make it very clear that the book be " open " , as Paul Johnson say , for all to see . when it come to public service , we have a proud record . on education , we have the good reader in the western world . we have be go up the PISA scale for mathematic and science , something that do not happen under the last Labour Government . crime have be halve , broadly speak , across the period from 2010 to the present day . when it come to work and welfare , we have a near - record level of employment , and we have a low level of unemployment . and economic inactivity be low than in every single year under the last Labour Government . what be labour ' s record ? when they leave office , unemployment be double the level that it be today . under every single Labour Government in history , unemployment have be high when they leave office than when they come in . most disgraceful of all be that youth unemployment be up 43 % under the last Labour Government ; under the last Conservative Government it be down by over 40 % . as for welfare , under Labour there be 1 . 4 million people languish on long - term benefit for almost a decade . on pension , we see the 75p pension increase and the Gordon Brown raid on private pension of £ 180 billion — from which the pension system never fully recover . it be , therefore , no surprise that , under Labour , we end up with the fourth high level of pensioner poverty across Europe . under Labour there be 1 million more people in absolute poverty after housing cost . there be 200 , 000 more pensioner in poverty and 100 , 000 more child in poverty under the last Labour Government than there be today . we will be a responsible opposition : we welcome the commitment to growth in the King ' s Speech ; we welcome the commitment to build house , as long as that be with sufficient local consent ; we welcome the Budget responsibility Bill in principle ; and we welcome the announcement that the Chancellor have make regard pension : consolidate pension and ensure that we get well return for pensioner and that we invest in long - term pension capital . but there be too many echo in this King ' s Speech of the Labour of old . the nationalisation of the railway . the consolidation of GB Energy . the long hand of Government reach — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] Labour Members cheer now but they win ' t be cheer in a few year ' time . they have short memory ; I remember when the railway be nationalise and it be not a pretty situation . they be bring forward french - style employment law that will lead to less efficient business and to tribunal . they will be increase the freedom of trade union , who be their paymaster . and they will be dispense with minimum service level ; that will lead to more strike and the inconvenience of the public , but certainly not great growth . what have we hear in the King ' s Speech on welfare , one of the big challenge of the modern age ? Zip , absolutely nothing , nada , diddly squat — absolutely nothing from the Labour party . they talk about move the National Careers Service from the Department for Education to the Department for Work and Pensions ; well , I hardly think that will move the dial . their back to work plan be name exactly as our back to work plan be that my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) the shadow Chancellor and I launch last autumn , but it have nothing stand behind it — not the billion of pound of support we put in place to encourage people to go into work and to transform life . all we have hear from those on the Government Benches be a denigration of our job centre ; these be describe as place of fear by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , and by the Minister for employment the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) as place that do not offer real help . what an insult to the ten of thousand of hard - work people up and down our country who go into those office to help people improve their prospect and improve their life . they be against what they call punitive sanction ; it will cost hundred of million of pound to remove those and it will result in less engagement with the help that be available and diminish people ' s life chance . there have be no comment whatsoever from the Government Benches on our work capability assessment reform , that accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility will see 400 , 000 few people on long - term sickness benefit . they oppose in poetry ; they have to govern in prose . they have not even pick up the pen , but let I be clear : we make mistake in government and we have pay the price at the ballot box , and it be right that my party now face a period of reflection and do so with humility . the electorate have speak , and we must listen . but that be not the same as say that the vision that be Conservatism have die , even if of late it have be too often obscure . that vision still burn bright . it burn bright as a beacon of freedom , enterprise , opportunity and , yes , stability and hope in the face of — order . will the shadow Secretary of State please curtail his remark now ? I commend our amendment to the House . I have never see the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) do a comic turn quite like that . opposition clearly suit he , but if he want to lead his party out of its catastrophic defeat , he will have to do a lot well . I be honour to close today ' s debate , not only as I be speak from this side of the Dispatch Box for the first time , but after so many truly wonderful maiden speech . member from all part of the House talk about the social , cultural and economic heritage of their constituency and about the real challenge that their constituent face , but also their talent and potential for a bright future , give that they have a Government who be on their side . there be too many member to go through individually , especially on the Government Benches , but let I just say this : your constituent will be very proud of you , as will your friend and family . I say that especially to the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) . member have speak with passion and conviction , especially on the Government Benches , about the need for change and to make true on our manifesto promise , and that be what this Government will deliver . this King ' s Speech turn the page on the last 14 year of chaos and decline , and it take the first step towards national renewal , deliver growth in every part of the country , tear down the barrier to opportunity and repair our public service through investment and reform . growth be this Government ' s no . 1 priority , because it be the only way that we will improve prosperity , put more money into people ' s pocket and transform our public service . our plan start with economic stability through the fiscal lock and our Budget responsibility Bill , so that we never again repeat the mistake of the last Conservative Government , who crash the economy , leave work people to pay a heavy price . our planning and infrastructure Bill will get Britain build again to deliver the home and other infrastructure that our country need . our national wealth fund will unlock billion of pound of private investment to support good job in clean energy and other growth industry of the future . the Department I be now privileged to lead be central to our growth and opportunity mission , through unlock the potential of our pension system , get people into work and on in their work and drive down poverty in every part of the country . first , on pension , people who have work hard and save all their life deserve a decent income in retirement . although the previous Government talk about the need for pension reform , in reality there be little action . in contrast , we have act immediately . our new pension Bill will bring together all the different pension saving that people build up across their work life and drive well value for money in pension scheme . these measure could help improve income in retirement and boost pension pot by more than £ 11 , 000 . our landmark pension review , announce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor , and lead by the Minister for Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) will go even far in unlock investment in british business and improve outcome for british pensioner . the second way we will boost growth and unleash opportunity be by get Britain work again . last week ' s labour market statistic underline the truly dire inheritance we face . Britain be the only G7 country whose employment rate have not return to pre - pandemic level . some 9 . 4 million people be now economically inactive — either not in work , or not look for work . that be one in five of the entire working age population . of those people , 2 . 8 million be lock out of the workplace due to poor health . that include over - 50 , often woman with bad hip , knee and joint — I know about that only too well — and young people with mental health problem , often lack basic qualification . one in eight of all our young people be not in education , employment or training . what a damn indictment of the last government . but behind those statistic be real people , with real hope and dream , who be write off by the Tories , deny opportunity and support , and then blame for the position they be in . let I tell the House now that , under the new Labour Government , that will change . our plan to get Britain work will be a cross - Government effort to drive change and unleash opportunity in every corner of the country . we will create more good job in clean energy and through our modern industrial strategy . we will make work pay and improve the quality of work through our new deal for work people . we will cut NHS waiting time , improve mental health support and transform skill and childcare to tackle the root cause of the problem , and fix the foundation for work , not just paper over the crack . we will deliver fundamental change in the Department for Work and Pensions , too . first , we will overhaul jobcentre , bring together Jobcentre plus with the National Careers Service to create a new job and career service to help more people get to work and get on in their work . secondly , we will drive down economic inactivity through new local work , health and skill plan lead by mayor and local area , devolve responsibility and resource to provide the right support in one place , because the man — or even the woman — in Whitehall will never know what be good in Leicester , Lowestoft or Leeds . we will also deliver our youth guarantee to ensure that every young person be earn or learn , because unlike Conservative Members we will never accept almost a million young people be write off before they have even begin . under this government , there will be obligation to engage with support , look for work and take job when they be offer , as there always have be since the original Beveridge report , but there will be no more divisive , derogatory rhetoric or claim that people just think that they be too bluesy to work . I be in politic to solve problem , not to score cheap point and grab empty headline that do nothing to tackle the problem in people ' s life . alongside our plan to get Britain work again , we have take immediate action to deliver our manifesto commitment for an ambitious strategy to tackle child poverty . I be proud that the last Labour Government lift more than half a million child out of poverty . the contrast with the Conservatives could not be great , with 700 , 000 more child grow up poor during their time in office . the fact that 4 million child be now live in poverty be a stain on our society . that be why , within a week of take office , I call in child poverty expert and campaigner to help start work on our plan . it be why the Prime Minister announce our new ministerial taskforce to drive action across Government , underpin by a new child poverty unit in the Cabinet Office . I will lead that work with our Education Secretary . as the Prime Minister announce , we will look at how to use all the lever at our disposal , include household income , employment , housing , child ' s health , education and childcare so that we drive up opportunity , drive down poverty and give all child the good start in life . the Government be elect on a mandate for change , to change our economy so that it work for work people , to get our public service back on their foot and to transform opportunity by tear down the barrier to success in every corner of this great nation . the King ' s Speech take the first step to rebuild Britain and make every part of our country well off , deliver real change to people ' s life , give they the chance and choice they deserve and to begin — finally — the task of restore faith that politic can once again be a force for good . question put , that the amendment be make . Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Caroline noke Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Judith cummin Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 111 , Noes 390 . question accordingly negative . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Adjournment ( Summer and Conference Recesses ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Tuesday 30 July 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 2 September 2024 ; and at its rise on Thursday 12 September 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 7 October 2024 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) question agree to . private Members ' Bills Motion make , and question put forthwith , that , ( 1 ) notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 14 ( 10 ) — ( a ) the ballot for private Members ’ bill shall be hold on Thursday 5 September , ( b ) ballot bill shall be present on Wednesday 16 October ; and ( 2 ) the provision of Standing Order No 14 ( 11 ) shall apply as if the word " Thursday 17 October " be substitute for the word " after the fifth Wednesday on which the House shall sit during the session " . — ( Lucy Powell . ) question agree to . Petition - Water Bills in Lancaster and Wyre I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent in Lancaster and Wyre who be concerned about Ofwat ' s proposal to see water bill increase by an average £ 19 a year between 2025 and 2030 . the petition of resident of Lancaster and Wyre , declare that resident in Lancaster and Wyre have be significantly impact by the cost - of - living crisis ; note that Ofwat have propose that bill should increase by an average of £ 19 per year between 2025 and 2030 ; and far declare that household be pay for the mistake of the privatised UK water industry whilst company boss be hand bonus payment . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to look into all appropriate measure to mitigate the impact of increase to water bill on household . and the petitioner remain ( etc . ) [ p003003 ] aerospace industry : Northern Ireland Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to speak on Government support for the aerospace industry in Northern Ireland . it be not unique , but it be quite unusual for I to be lead an Adjournment debate instead of intervene in it . I hope that plenty of Members will take the opportunity to intervene on I . Northern Ireland be an aerospace hub . we have work long and hard to make it so , and for good reason : we be an anchor for the aerospace industry . it be something that we have build on over the last number of decade , and from supplier to highly skilled labour Northern Ireland be a global force for aerospace . Invest NI have highlight this , say : " Northern Ireland Aerospace & Defence offer a true turnkey supply solution with design , manufacture , certification and testing in one hub . the level of proximity and cohesion be unique — 120 firm within 1 hour drive of each other , a high density of supplier across all element of the aerospace supply chain , from design and manufacture ( world lead capability in machining , composite , polymer ) , to coating , assembly , certification & testing . our high performing and consistently reliable supply chain can meet customer ' need at pace and with industry lead quality performance . these company be engage at the leading edge of advanced aerospace design and manufacturing . every major commercial aircraft programme depend on structure , component and expert service from Northern Ireland … world - class university and an extensive network of further education college provide excellent academic and vocational training . " be my hon . friend please that Northern Ireland have ten of thousand of job in the industry ? we be a major exporter as a result of the aerospace industry , and when people fly around the world , a third of the seat on aircraft be make in Northern Ireland . that be an amazing figure , show how important the industry be not only to Northern Ireland but to Great Britain and the UK . I be always happy when my right hon . friend intervene , and that exactly underline why Northern Ireland be so important . it play above its status , with its population and the skill force that I have refer to . I should have say , and I apologise for not do so , how pleased I be to see the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , in her place . I very much look forward to engage with she over the next period of time . I be also pleased to see the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , in her place . she be in my constituency approximately six or seven week ago . she come as a shadow Minister and I tell she that the next time she come , instead of ask the question , she would have to answer they , so I look forward to the next time she come to Northern Ireland . I be really pleased to see both lady in their place , and to see the shadow Minister here as well . to reinforce what my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say , there be an exist talent pool , with more than 34 % of Northern Ireland ' s workforce have a third - level qualification , and cost be significantly low than EU , US and UK average . operate cost be up to 30 % low than on the UK mainland or in the EU . I say with great respect and humbleness that Northern Ireland candidate consistently outperform those from other UK region at GCSE and a - level examination , and with a strong partnership between academia , industry and Government drive skill development in the region , it be little wonder that we be thrive . I want to say how pleased I be at that . in a segue from Northern Ireland to Somerset , Leonardo be an aerospace manufacturer locate just outside my constituency . last month it hold its AeroWomen event to highlight the diversity of career for woman in the sector . do the hon . Member agree that the Government can play a role in encourage more girl and woman to study science , technology , engineering and math — STEM subject — and to work in this field , which would help to close up the skill shortage that the industry face ? yes , I agree . I be glad to say that , in Northern Ireland , Spirit AeroSystems and the aerospace sector be already try to achieve some of those goal by give introduction to lady in engineering . I be very encourage by that , and the hon . Lady be right . we have hear a woman Chancellor speak in the House today , which be an example of what we all wish to see . it be wonderful to have lady elevate to different position , and we have that in engineering , at Spirit and across the aviation sector . this have undoubtedly be a holistic effort , with Invest NI involvement and Government support . it be clear that this have pay dividend , with the Northern Ireland aerospace , defence , security and space sector on track to achieve revenue of £ 2 billion a year by 2024 . the sector have a turnover of £ 1 . 9 billion and contribute almost £ 1 billion in value add to Northern Ireland ' s economy in 2022 . the hon . Gentleman mention the military side of aviation in Northern Ireland . do he agree that we be underutilise the Royal Air Force base at Aldergrove ? the Government could look at that , as well as enhance Belfast International airport in my constituency . the hon . Gentleman speak in his maiden speech today about what could be do at Aldergrove and Belfast International airport . I see that , as we probably all do , as a way of advance aerospace across Northern Ireland for everybody ' s advantage . support for the sector have result in an employment dividend , with 7 , 000 people believe to be directly employ . there be also the skill and the varied subsidiary company whose bread and butter be supply this industry . Strangford have hundred of people employ in this sector , so I have much to be proud of . however , it be clear why I have call this debate . one of the major employer under Spirit have a factory in my constituency and employ hundred at its east Belfast site , and it have take the decision to sell its operation here . I be privileged to have secure the debate for that reason . I tell the press in the run - up to the election that I would make this an issue , and I be glad to have be able to speak to the Minister to highlight it last week . the hon . Gentleman rightly speak about the potential change . he will recall that a trade union - lead campaign save Harland & Wolff in 2019 . I be sure that , like I , he be down at the yard many time to support the campaign . it be the union that have the tenacity to keep it open and the vision to see potential green job down the line . do he agree it be important that the trade union be keep involve in any discussion about the future of the site ? the hon . Lady make a pertinent point , and I absolutely agree about the importance of union . the last sentence of my speech will underline the important role play by the union . the operation be be sell as a go concern , which be encouraging . however , my go concern be to ensure that it do not result in job be lose , but result in an even strong aerospace industry in Northern Ireland . that be why I be press for Government involvement and support to ensure that happen . Spirit announce on 1 July that it have sign a definitive merger agreement under which Boeing will acquire Spirit . Spirit have also enter into a bind term sheet with Airbus , under which Airbus will assume ownership of certain Airbus programme carry out by Spirit . that include the a220 programme at our Belfast site . my hon . friend make an important point not only about trade union but about job retention . it will be important in the day and week to come that the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland impress upon Airbus that , in assume responsibility for the wing facility , it be take on grandfathere obligation that arise from Northern Ireland Executive and national Government commitment that lead to the construction of that facility . Airbus should be in no doubt that , if it take on the wing facility , those obligation sustain , and that its commitment to the workforce in Belfast should sustain . I hope my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) agree with I , but I be also keen to hear that the Minister be prepared to advance that issue with Airbus in the come day . I thank my right hon . friend for his comment . in my discussion with the Minister last week , I take the opportunity to give she my contribution and my final ask . we be look for positive answer , and I think my right hon . friend will not be disappoint when the Minister respond ; certainly , I hope that will be the case . I be aware that Spirit be in the process of secure a responsible owner for the remain activity in its Northern Ireland operation , hopefully include the facility in Newtownards , which be severely underutilise . I wish to underline something that the company have be at pain to highlight : the decision to offer the non - Airbus part of the Belfast site for sale be not a reflection on the operation ' s performance or capability . Spirit be one Northern Ireland ' s large investor and big employer , with over 3 , 500 employee . it have a highly skilled , adaptable workforce and an extensive , integrated Northern Ireland and GB supply chain . that must remain the case because it be clearly a key part of the local aerospace ecosystem and its operation have a major impact on the Northern Ireland economy . I can not underline enough the importance of its impact on the Northern Ireland economy . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for give way . as somebody who have spend many year watch his intervention on other people , it be a pleasure to be able to intervene on he . the hon . Gentleman will know how important Northern Ireland be to I and my family , and to many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme . will he take the opportunity to place on the record his welcome of this Government ' s commitment to upskille young people right across our United Kingdom ? the hon . Gentleman and I have be friend for many year . I be pleased that he have be able to participate in the debate ; he say he would if the opportunity arise . I agree with what he say , and I think the Minister will underline it her response . give the difficulty with the apprenticeship levy and the way in which firm in Northern Ireland have lose out , do my hon . friend wish , like I , that the Government will remedy that situation , so that when firm in Northern Ireland pay into the apprenticeship levy , they can benefit from that in train young people ? that be another issue for the Minister . I wholeheartedly agree with what my right hon . Friend say , and other do as well . an anomaly need to be address ; hopefully the Minister can do that . I want to stand by worker who have come to I seek assurance , so I look to the Minister to provide those assurance . I seek an assurance that the Government understand the nature of aerospace in Northern Ireland , and how essential the Spirit operation be to our economy and employment . the Belfast site be a global leader in aerostructure , with unique end - to - end capability through design and development , testing and manufacture , to after - market support . the operation have engineering and technology leadership in advanced material and ultra - light structure , in particular unique advanced composite capability , which it be far develop for commercial , defence and space application . Spirit do so much , and it can do so much more for Northern Ireland . its extensive expertise have lead to significant investment in R & D and engineering skill and capability over many year . the investment can and must continue to support the key role that Northern Ireland play in the UK - wide sector . I always say what a pleasure it be to be an MP in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I mean that from the bottom of my heart . I think we be well together wherever we be . we can exchange idea and advance thing ; that can not be overstate enough and must be make crystal clear . it be clear the site be ready for a buyer and that a Government stand by the industry , ready to continue investment in R & d and site improvement , will make this even more attractive for purchase . the Government be aware of the crisis loom over Northern Ireland manufacturing , with the difficulty in Harland and Wolff . indeed , the Government release a write statement about that today . my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have be at the fore of try to address that issue . whatever the reason may be , we look forward to the hopeful possibility of something that have the potential to get we beyond the problem we have today . however , the outworking of these issue at this time be that the worker at Spirit can not help but fear that there be trouble , not simply in the water with the shipping industry , but in the air with factory in Morocco and Mexico seek to undercut cost but not quality . now be the time for this Labour Government — my Government , my Minister , here in this House , for I and for my constituent in Strangford — to make it clear that they will deliver for my constituent . it be no secret that my politic lie to the left of centre ; I be very pleased to see the Minister in her place and to see the thing I hope to see over the next period of time . it be important that we make clear our commitment to the Northern Ireland economy , which be anchor in manufacturing , and send a very clear message to prospective buyer that there be an unflinche commitment to aerospace and defence in Northern Ireland that will be outworke in development grant and tax aid to secure the future of this facility and , indeed , its expansion in the future . in conclusion , I look to the Minister now to outline how her government — as I have say , this be my Government as well — can and will send the right message today . I be very glad — this be a personal opinion , not necessarily a party one — to see a party , the Labour party , come to power , as it speak for the worker , understand the right of the worker , and understand the importance of an industry that be at the centre of the future economic plan of Northern Ireland . I now look to that Government to put action to all the word and secure the future of this sector , which be far from be on its last leg , and , indeed , be long and equip to soar even high than it be now . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for introduce this debate tonight . I have wonder who be go to intervene on he as he could not intervene on himself . I be grateful that several hon . member do the job for he . I also want to thank he for his dedicated support for Northern Ireland ' s remarkable aerospace industry , which be found on strong engineering heritage and be rich in knowledge , skill , experience and technology . indeed , as this be my first time at the Dispatch Box since I be give this ministerial appointment , I be delighted that it be to discuss and highlight the Government support for the Northern Ireland aerospace sector . I can absolutely assure the hon . Member and the whole House that this Government will work tirelessly to deliver economic growth in Northern Ireland and across all corner of the United Kingdom , so that we can drive inward investment , enable british industry and business of all size to grow and prosper , and give work people more secure employment . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I congratulate she on her appointment and wish she incredibly well . may I encourage the Minister to access the Royal United Services Institute report into defence spending in Northern Ireland ? when she read it , she will recognise that Northern Ireland to date have receive one fifth of the UK average spend on defence per region around the United Kingdom . there be a huge opportunity for she to increase support and investment for Northern Ireland and for the industry at the heart of this debate . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention and for add to my reading list , which be already quite substantial , as I be sure he can imagine . our wonderful civil servant be keep we very busy with all the thing that we need to read , but , indeed , I will look at that report , as he suggest , and be happy to do so . deliver an industrial strategy be at the centre of the Government ' s growth mission alongside our goal of become a clean energy superpower . we want to create the right condition for the green industry of the future to flourish , enable those key sector not only to transform the UK economy , but to become world leader in their own right . aerospace be crucial to this growth mission , with investment in research and development key to deliver the next generation aircraft for sustainable flight . that be why I be very much look forward to attend the Farnborough International Airshow tomorrow for the first time as a Minister . I will be meet UK aerospace company and see for myself the vast array of pioneer product and service be sell across the globe . I be hope to see all the partner involve in the Spirit discussion tomorrow and to talk to they about this topic . I understand that there be a tent at the Farnborough show that have a Northern Ireland section . I be sure that the Minister will attend that show , and have a chance to interact with the company there . sometimes people say that if minister go there , they get they for about 15 minute . I suggest that she spend a wee bit long there . I be delighted that the hon . Member have intervene in his own Adjournment debate . I will be there at the UK stand tomorrow , and we will see what Northern Ireland have on display . I will spend as much time there as I can . I be there for the whole day , so I hope that I will spend some good time there . as member will be well aware , Northern Ireland have a long and impressive history in the aerospace industry . this Government be in lockstep with the sector ' s ambition to grow , compete on the world stage , and ease the transition to net zero flight . today , the aerospace sector support nearly 240 , 000 job , with almost half of those employee directly employ by aerospace company . some 5 , 000 of they be in Northern Ireland . the sector as a whole be worth some £ 30 billion . despite all the achievement , we recognise that the past year have be challenge for the sector , with the chaos and uncertainty of the previous Government , and the global shock of covid , the war in Ukraine and the disruption in the Red sea . we know that the impact of those issue persist . I know that in a previous life the Minister spend a lot of time work in and on Northern Ireland , so we be listen very carefully indeed . Labour member be rightly very proud of devolution , and what it have mean for all part of our United Kingdom . what engagement have she have , and will she have in the month ahead , with the Northern Ireland Executive on this and associated issue ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place in this House . a really important aspect of the way that the Prime Minister have set about government be his tell we all that we must work together much more closely on issue that affect the United Kingdom as a whole . that mean work across Government Departments and across the nation and region . we be set up structure to do that . the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be already talk at length to colleague , and we have have conversation across Government on these issue already . thousand of people in my constituency of North Down work in the industry . will she consider a visit to my constituency to visit those factory ? it would be a great honour for we , and she would see at first hand what be go on . it would be greatly appreciate by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) as well . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be of course happy to visit whatever I can . one of the good way of understand the issue be to go and see thing for myself , and I would certainly like to do that . the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have be in Northern Ireland frequently , and we go there a few week before the general election be call . it be incredibly powerful to see the ambition in the business community in Northern Ireland to get thing move and grow . the industry face resource constraint , and shortage of material and capacity . that situation be force some major manufacturer to slow down their plan production rate . give all those challenge , it be only right that we support aerospace manufacturer in Northern Ireland and across the UK , and the industrial strategy will be the cornerstone of that work . we believe that the strategy will grow our share of the global aerospace manufacturing market , unlock huge investment opportunity that will fuel research and development , and create new high - skilled , high - pay job across the economy , include in aerospace . the Government will work in close partnership with the aerospace sector , support clean growth and continue to develop joint government and industry strategy through the aerospace growth partnership sector council — a partnership that reach business and the research base in every part of the United Kingdom . I be aware that the hon . member for Strangford ' s debate be focus on Northern Ireland , so let I turn to Northern Ireland in great detail . first , I recognise his reference to Harland & Wolff . as he will be aware , my right hon . friend the Business Secretary give an update to the House this morning via a write statement , stress the fact that we be work with member , the Northern Ireland Executive , trade union and other partner to support a positive outcome for all affected site across the UK and for its worker . move back to aerospace , as the hon . Gentleman say , there be at least 120 company in Northern Ireland supply to every major commercial aircraft programme , boast expertise in everything from composite design and manufacturing to precision machining and more . as he also say , one third of global aircraft seat be make in Northern Ireland , as of course be the advanced composite wing of the Airbus a220 aircraft . it be the week of the Farnborough international airshow , and a week in which we have announce over £ 100 million for cutting - edge new green aerospace technology , so the hon . Gentleman ' s debate have touch down with excellent timing , particularly as I recognise — we need to cover this — that there be of course concern about the expect change in ownership of the region ' s large advanced manufacturer , Spirit AeroSystems ' Short Brothers . Short Brothers be well know for its award - win advanced composite technology , develop and deploy on the a220 wing . the innovative design and manufacturing technique receive recognition in 2019 from the Royal Academy of Engineering , the high honour award to an engineering project . short employ 1 , 500 people on the a220 programme , support by £ 113 million through a repayable funding partnership with the Northern Ireland Executive and the previous Labour Government in 2009 . the ability to manufacture a complete wing in one facility be a credit to those who work there . that build on the legacy of more than 100 year of Northern Ireland aerospace . Airbus be now work on ramp up production , and announce in April this year that it would be increase the production rate per month to 14 aircraft by 2026 . with more than 550 order to deliver , and the likelihood of further order to follow , this provide great certainty for the company , its employee and the Northern Ireland economy . on the acquisition of Spirit and Shorts , Boeing and Airbus announce on 1 July that they will acquire part of the Spirit AeroSystems global business . Boeing plan to take nearly all of Spirit ' s Boeing - face business , mostly those part locate in the United States . that sale be , however , subject to the sale of certain other Spirit operation to Airbus . Airbus and Spirit have agree , subject to final term , that Airbus will acquire the a220 wing and mid - fuselage . these be build by Short Brothers at its a220 wing production facility and its other Northern Ireland site . Spirit plan to sell its remain Belfast operation — the non - Airbus programme — alongside its facility in Prestwick , to another company . these advanced manufacturing site offer engineering centre of excellence with engineering - back capability , which Spirit assure we will prove to be an attractive proposition for potential buyer . commercial negotiation be continue as the party work through the detail of the acquisition and work towards finalise term , with an expectation that the transaction will close in mid - 2025 . the Government be work with the Northern Ireland Executive to help to ensure the good outcome for Short Brothers and all its highly skilled and hard - work staff . we have a keen interest in see that any acquisition include a commitment to develop Short Brothers and its supply chain and provide the good possible opportunity for growth in Northern Ireland . that be because the Government have a clear vision for the future of aerospace across the whole UK . we be provide support for technology development for the next generation of aircraft and engine through the Aerospace Technology Institute programme , which provide collaborative funding to company base in Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK . that include the isothermal variable - volume infusion , or IVI , project that we announce early today at Farnborough international airshow — a £ 10 million project lead by Short Brothers to produce light , more structurally efficient aerostructure , enable the transition to new sustainable aircraft . the Government will also continue to work in partnership with the Northern Ireland Executive on opportunity for growth and investment . in summary , the UK have a vibrant and hugely pioneer aerospace sector . it be a central cog in our manufacture economy and will play a hugely important global role in decarbonisation and net zero , nurture some of the high - skilled job and most advanced technology in the world . UK aerospace company and their supply chain will be at the heart of our transformative industrial strategy , and I know the Northern Ireland aerospace sector will play a pivotal role in the success of the UK sector as a whole , and in the growth and success of UK manufacturing and industry . question put and agree to . House adjourn .