eight month ago , in my maiden speech to Parliament , I say that Fiona Laskaris would succeed in change the law that prevent she from save her autistic son , Christopher , from murder . I be here today to honour that commitment . we be on the cusp of change the law . we have get this far thank to the National Autistic Society ; mps from across the Chamber work together to overcome injustice , include the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , the right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) ; steadfast support from my party , the Liberal Democrats , and support from the Prime Minister and the Government , in a way that represent Parliament at its good ; and Elisa Menendez and Romilly Weeks from ITV , who run the story . above all , we get this far because of the courage and determination of Fiona Laskaris to save other from the fate that befell her son , Christopher . Fiona and Cara , Christopher ' s sister , be in the Gallery . Christopher be not unlike many autistic child . he be a sensitive , intelligent , loving and compassionate boy , who once ask his mum to stop on the way to school to rescue a lamb that be stick in a fence . I first meet Fiona when I be eight . I stay in my bedroom and ignore she , perhaps because I be angry that she be buy my home off my dad ; my mum have die when I be a few month old , and I be a sensitive boy . well , they move in ; Christopher grow up in my old bedroom , and he love the house as much as I do , but as a young man live alone in Leeds , he struggle . despite Fiona plead for help for year , she be never able to attain for he the mental capacity assessment that he need to determine his support requirement . horrifically , he be exploit and murder by a man who have just be release from jail . Christopher be 24 . we be work with the Government on an amendment to the Bill to ensure that the view of family member be consider when determine an adult ' s requirement for a mental capacity assessment . Christopher ' s story be not unique . King ' s College London find that in 2022 alone , there be 95 preventable death of people with autism and learn disability in case in which the Mental Capacity Act 2005 have not be correctly follow . it can be hard to grasp the scale of the special educational need and disability crisis in this country , but ten of thousand of SEND child be out of school , include 1 , 800 in Surrey alone . we be lose autistic child , include my constituent Jennifer Chalkley , to avoidable suicide , and , at worst , we be abandon autistic people in their 20 to murderer ; we be fail a generation . how we answer their call for justice will serve as a measure of who we be , and I believe the answer be less a matter of money than of leadership . we know from Nobel laureate James Heckman that early intervention be exponentially more effective and economical in today ' s brutalise system , which have cost the life of Christopher , Jennifer and too many other . although this amendment be only a small part of the answer , it can save life . if one grieve mother can change the law , perhaps we can change the other thing , too . if we succeed , it will be above all because of the voice of broken but unbeaten parent , like Fiona , demand change . although Christopher have a difficult life , he have the most precious thing that any man can have : a love and devoted mum . it be up to we to ensure that Fiona be a witness that in our country , it be possible for the vulnerable to be hear , for injustice to be overcome , and to find , beyond grief , hope .