Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — single - sex Spaces what step the Government be take to protect single - sex space . we be committed to maintain the safeguard that allow organisation to provide single - sex service . the Equality Act 2010 set out that provider have the right to restrict use of service on the basis of sex where there be justified and proportionate reason . a number of member of the House have relative or family member who be tran , and we will all have constituent who be member of the trans community . do the Minister agree that trans people need safe space , too ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the tone in which the debate should take place . just a few week ago , we have a debate in Westminster Hall where I absolutely make that point . this be not about pit woman against the trans community . Gender reassignment be a protect characteristic under the Equality Act , but it be important that biological woman have the ability to access single - sex space , too . Candidate Diversity : democratic Process what step the Government be take to help increase the participation of minority ethnic group in the democratic process . whether she have have discussion with stakeholder on improve the diversity of parliamentary candidate . the Government have work hard to remove any material obstacle to democratic participation for all eligible group . register to vote be quick and easy , take as little as five minute . any elector without an accepted form of photographic identification can apply for a voter authority certificate from their local authority free of charge , or alternatively they could vote by post or proxy . I have a thriving british - albanian community in my Chipping Barnet constituency , make a really positive contribution to our culture and economy . what more can the Government do to encourage they to be involve in campaign at election , vote in election and standing as candidate in election ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s effort in ensure that everyone participate in the democratic process . I agree with she , but it be ultimately for local registration team to ensure as good they can that all eligible elector in their area be correctly register to vote . we want to ensure that all part of the UK be equally represent in politic and the democratic system where they be eligible . with almost a quarter of the UK ' s population register as disabled , do the Minister agree that all political party need to try hard in the run - up to the next general election in select a diverse group of candidate , with perhaps slightly less emphasis on nepotism and more on the representation of ordinary voter , include those from all ethnic minority background ? the hon . Lady ask an excellent question , and I thank she for all the work she do campaign for woman ' s right . she have be at the vanguard of some contentious issue . she be quite right to raise candidate selection . all political party have to make the very good of effort in ensure that a meritocracy exist and help those include disabled people who might need additional assistance in participate through some of the difficult selection process . I highlight again how diverse the conservative party be , and the Cabinet in particular . that be testament to the fact that meritocracy work . we hope that other will learn from our example . I call the shadow Minister . the Labour party have more woman and ethnic minority mps than the rest of the political party put together . we know that that lead to well outcome for british people , but there be always further to go . that be why we have commit to enact section 106 of the Equality Act so that all political party would be require to be transparent about the diversity of their candidate . why will the Government not do the same ? at the end of the day , it be the electorate who decide who get to represent they . the hon . member might be cherry - pick statistic on which party be the most diverse . we can do the same and talk about how the Conservatives have have three female Prime Ministers when Labour have not have even a single leader . if she want to dive deep down and be granular , we have more black man in our party than in all the other party combine . this splitting hair be not helpful ; what we need to do be ensure that the process be as meritocratic as possible . woman in STEM Jobs what step the Government be take to help support woman in STEM role . what step the Government be take to help support woman in STEM role . we have make great progress in increase the number of girl study STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — subject . our challenge now be to do more to get they into STEM job . to support that , we launch a scheme call STEM returner , as one of our programme to grow the skill of people who have take a career break . we have so far have 42 woman in our first cohort and 54 have sign up for our second cohort , get woman with experience and skill back into STEM job . while the UK - wide responsibility in area such as energy and defence among other be reserve to this Parliament , education , skill , university , college and apprenticeship among other be devolve . what discussion have my hon . friend the Minister have with other UK Government Ministers and devolve administration to ensure that the opportunity for woman to get their STEM education and skill , and to maintain their career , be maximise across the United Kingdom ? I thank my hon . friend for his work , particularly around promote the energy sector across the United Kingdom . we be make progress on try to get woman and girl into that vital sector . one of our Build back well campaign be seek to inspire woman from all walk of life to work in the green energy economy and raise awareness of green education , training and career . my colleague the Minister with responsibility for employment and I regularly meet devolved colleague to discuss how we can have a United Kingdom approach to this issue . last week I meet a group of life science apprentice , young woman and young man , who have take up some great opportunity with STEM employer . one issue they raise with I be the lack of information about non - trade apprenticeship when they be consider their career option . what more can my hon . friend do to promote STEM apprenticeship for the 16 to 18 - year - old who may not want to pursue the university route ? my hon . friend be a shine example of how woman can lead in the STEM sector , with her own experience in clinical care before she come to this place . we be try to drive forward apprenticeship , particularly in STEM subject . since May 2010 , over 5 million apprenticeship start have happen and our apprenticeship diversity champion be help those aged 16 and over to get into apprenticeship , particularly in STEM subject . organisation such as UCAS and Young Women ' s Trust be also do that specific work . the Scottish Government have a number of ambition to address the lack of woman in STEM occupation and setting such as school . those ambition start early . the gender pay gap action plan examine how school have a key role in help young woman make transition into broad occupation , as well as set out measure that address occupation segregation , lead to more woman access STEM career . what be the Government do to provide that kind of support ? one key route be through apprenticeship . for many young woman , be able to earn while you learn and get that work experience be vital for they to progress through the STEM sector . we have 22 , 000 degree apprenticeship and seven master degree apprenticeship . that be an increase of 14 % . in STEM subject in particular , we have 360 employer design apprenticeship , include level 3 cyber - security , level 4 software development and level 6 civil engineering . we believe apprenticeship be the way forward to drive more woman into STEM area . I thank the Minister for that answer . in Northern Ireland , woman be under - represent in STEM industry . only 15 % of woman in Northern Ireland study core STEM subject , compare to 36 % of man . that be a clear anomaly that need to be address . may I encourage the Minister to use her office to engage with the Department for the Economy to encourage more uptake in university STEM subject ? woman can do the job every bit as well as a man give that opportunity . I thank the hon . member for that question . that go to the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) . we need a UK approach . across the Government , whether in the Department for Work and Pensions or the Department for Education , we focus on try to improve all avenue for those , particularly woman , who want to go into STEM area . LGBT People what step she be take to help improve the life of LGBT people . the UK have a proud history of LGBT right , and one of the world ' s most comprehensive and robust legislative protection framework for LGBT people . we have take great stride as a country over the last couple of decade and it be my job to continue that journey . the Minister be absolutely right : great thing have be do for LGBT + people in the last 13 year , include blood donation change , the prep — pre - exposure prophylaxis — roll - out , and of course same - sex marriage . however , hate crime against LGBT + people be on the up , conversion therapy still have not be ban and the UK have slip down the ranking for LGBT + equality . I know that this Minister take these issue incredibly seriously , but how can he assure I that the Government take they seriously and that they will tackle they as a matter of urgency ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the issue of all form of anti - LGBT hate crime . they be utterly unacceptable , and we have a robust legislative framework to respond to that . I meet representative of the Metropolitan police and other stakeholder just last week to ensure that everything possible be be do to crack down on such crime . there will be further question later about conversion practice , and we be consider all those issue . this be a complex area of work , but I give my hon . friend a personal commitment that anything to do with LGBT right and improve the life of LGBT people will be high on my agenda . a Bill ban the psychological abuse that some people call conversion therapy have be promise repeatedly in this session from that Dispatch Box . where be it ? I accept that , and I apologise for the fact that it have take so long , but , as I have say , it be a complex issue . I have be personally campaign for this for many year , but even I recognise there be deep complexity . it be right that we take the time to consider each of the issue carefully , so that what we have in place be consistent , robust and up to date , and tackle these appalling practice . I call the shadow Home Secretary . almost 2 , 000 day have pass since the Government first promise to ban conversion therapy , and 533 day have pass since a conversion therapy Bill be promise in the last queen ' s Speech . the delay be not this Minister ' s responsibility ; accord to the press , they be a result of differ view on the Government Front Bench , but because of that there be still no bill . can the Minister tell the House whether the next King ' s Speech will include a commitment to a full , loophole - free ban on LGBT conversion therapy — yes or no ? I should have think the hon . Lady would know that no one ever make announcement about what be in the King ' s Speech ahead of his Majesty ' s delivery of that speech . let I also say to she , respectfully , that she should not believe everything she read in the press . as for the rest of her question , I refer she to the answer I give a few moment ago . I would therefore counsel the Minister to advise his colleague to stop brief the press on these issue and get on with deliver , because there be failure when it come to delivery for LGBT + people . yesterday I meet Michael Smith , who be viciously attack at a bus stop simply for be with his partner . Police - record sexual orientation hate crime have increase by more than 70 % in the last five year , and more than a third of all hate crime be now " violence against the person " offence . I know that the Minister care deeply about this subject , so can he please explain why his government do not agree with Labour or with the Law Commission that every violent act of hatred should be punish in the same way — as an aggravated offence ? let I say to the hon . Lady that as someone who be hospitalise after be attack because of my sexuality , I know how difficult that be . it be not just the attack that be painful but what be leave afterwards . I will continue to raise each of these issue , but I want to make this point . I keep hear that we do not care about LGBT issue . it be this Government who introduce same - sex marriage , and it be this Government who introduce it in Northern Ireland . it be this Government who introduce ture ' s law in 2017 . we have modernise gender recognition certificate and make they affordable . we have remove self - funding for fertility treatment for same sex - couple , lift the ban on blood donation , and tackle LGBT - relate bullying in school . we have apologise for the way in which LGBT people be treat in the armed force , and we have provide funding to ensure that LGBT right across the Commonwealth be protect . [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 4MC . ] order . we need to make progress now . pay Inequalities what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on tackle pay inequality in the labour market . owe to my joint role — I be also Secretary of State for Business and Trade — I have a unique understanding of unjust pay disparity , and I be proud of the step that this Government have take to tackle they . we will publish new guidance in April to help employer to measure , report on and address unfair ethnicity pay difference , and it be a Conservative Government who introduce gender pay gap reporting in 2017 . nineteen US state have ban employer from ask prospective employee about their salary history , mean that people be pay what the job be worth and not just what the boss can get away with . this have have a massive impact on tackle unequal pay for woman and black worker in particular . have talk about pilot a similar salary history measure , why have the Government appear to stall on what would be a really positive policy ? we be not stall . our pilot will support employer to take step towards transparency in their own organisation , to see the impact for themselves . we know that this be not straightforward , which be why we will ensure that employer look to implement great transparency in their recruitment process be able to access good practice and learn from each other . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the UK Government ' s " Inclusive Britain update report " acknowledge the value of measure the ethnicity pay gap and the Government have publish guidance for employer note that employer can use ethnicity pay gap calculation to consider evidence - base action to address any unfair disparity . despite that , the UK Government will not legislate to mandate reporting . since employment law be a reserved matter , will the Minister urge her government to do the right thing and mandate ethnicity pay gap reporting , or urge the devolution of employment law to Scotland so that the Scottish Government can ? absolutely not . this be something that we will not be devolve and it absolutely should not be mandatory . ethnicity pay gap can not be measure in the same way as gender pay gap . I have say this to the hon . Lady at this Dispatch Box multiple time . we can measure a pay gap where a population be binary male and female but we can not do it across a broad spectrum of ethnicity . we have publish guidance for those employer who want to do this , but it would be absolutely wrong to mandate . disabled People : additional Costs what recent estimate she have make of the level of additional cost affect household with disabled people . we will spend around £ 78 . 6 billion this year on benefit to support disabled people and people with health condition . no such estimate have be make but as a government we be provide total support of more than £ 94 billion from 2022 to 2024 and we be determined to help all household and individual with the rise cost of bill . this include an additional £ 150 for more than 6 million disabled people . that be great , but back in the real world the Minister really do know that the rise cost of living be have a disproportionately negative impact on disabled people . they face high living cost as a consequence and they still face barrier to employment . do she accept that target action , include disability pay gap reporting , be now need to support disabled people ? if the hon . Gentleman be concerned about his disabled constituent , I can point he to the household support fund , which be also help those constituent and their carer . in his constituency — in his real world — an additional £ 4 . 4 million have land to support he . this be not a matter for the Department for Work and Pensions , but I be sure that it will have be hear . my hon . friend will be aware that fund be make available to get disabled people into employment via access to work . however , there be significant delay in those fund be make available , once grant . additional cost to disabled people — for example , their pay £ 6 , 000 for powered wheel — come at more of a cost when they be oblige to pay for they on their credit card because they can not access the fund in time . will she please work with colleague across the DWP to ensure that there be no delay in get access to the fund that will help disabled people into work ? I thank my right hon . friend for her point , which give I the opportunity to say that from next Tuesday an additional £ 300 will be pay in cost of live payment to those who be eligible . regard access to work , there be a continue focus on improve waiting time for customer and we be streamline and digitise the process . indeed , I speak to the Minister for disabled People this week on exactly this matter in relation to one of my own constituent , and I will see that he hear it again from my right hon . friend . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as the Minister for Women and Equalities , it would be remiss of I not to reflect on the way religious community in the UK have be impact by the terrible event in the middle east . all our citizen have a right to feel secure and at peace in Britain . one of the reason we have be able to integrate people from all over the world be an unwritten rule that people with root elsewhere do not play out foreign conflict on the street of this country . we owe a duty of care and civility to our neighbour , whatever their ethnicity , religion or background . all of we be free to practise our faith and celebrate our culture , but we must do so in a positive way , consistent with fundamental value that be the bedrock of Britain . I be afraid to say that in recent day we have see that social contract be breach . in particular , I believe that the hostility direct towards our jewish community , the call for jihad , the ostentatious indifference to the victim of terrorism , the aggressive chanting by mob brandish placard of hate , and the odious people rip down poster of miss child do not reflect our value as a nation . we must all stand firm on the boundary of acceptable behaviour , particularly in the public space that we all share . that be why today I be remind public sector organisation that they have a legal obligation , as part of the equality duty , to consider how they contribute to the advancement of good relation in community as they deliver public service . where organisation be have difficulty do that , I urge they to write to I as soon as possible for advice on how they can fulfil their legal obligation . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . there should be no place for hatred in our community . as a woman in her 50 — [ hon . member : " no ! " ] — I know how challenging the menopause can be , especially when you have a busy job . what support be there for work woman with the menopause ? I hope that my right hon . Friend feel that she be support by all of her colleague . I be delighted to let she know that there will be a full debate on menopause tomorrow , lead by the Minister for Social Mobility . I be proud of the great stride that Helen Tomlinson have make since her appointment as the Department for Work and Pensions menopause employment champion . the report " no time to step back " detail this progress and look forward to the next six month , include the sector - specific workshop . in less than a decade , the proportion of female pensioner in the UK live in poverty have rise by 6 % , which mean that one in every five female pensioner be below the breadline , despite the fact that the number of female pensioner have fall due to the rise in state pension age , which disadvantage ten of thousand of old woman . do the Minister for Equalities share my concern that in the UK today 20 % of female pensioner be live in poverty , and what action will she take to address that ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point . in 2021 - 22 , there be 200 , 000 few female pensioner in absolute poverty than in 2009 - 10 , after housing cost . I point the hon . Lady to the Barnett consequential of the household support fund in Scotland , which be there to be distribute by her Government to those in need . as you will know , Mr Speaker , Watford be a thriving multi - faith community , and it be a privilege to take part in so many celebration and learn about the history of each culture that make Watford unique and amazing . will the Minister join I in encourage colleague to attend the event that I will be host with the Inter Faith Network on 14 November to promote a national organisation to understand how we can all engage well with the different faith in our community , and will he please also consider attend the event , if diary permit ? faith be a vital part of people ' s identity and of their community . we fully support the invaluable work be do by people around the country who be inspire by their faith . my hon . friend be a great advocate for the work that go on in his own constituency . I certainly encourage people to attend that event , and I will do everything I can to pop in myself . a year ago , the Public Order Bill be pass in this House , and with it my new clause , which be overwhelmingly support in a free vote by mp on both side of the House , to stop woman be deter from use and enter the door of abortion clinic by protest outside . a year on , intimidation be bad than ever , because the legislation be not be enact . will the Minister look into why that be and fix this now ? if the hon . Lady have a specific example of where that be happen , I will be happy to look at it if she raise it with I . in its 2021 census , the Office for National Statistics estimate that there be 260 , 000 transgender people in the UK . do the Minister agree with the separate Office for Statistics Regulation that , due to skewed methodology , this number be likely to have be a huge overestimate ? I share the concern that the Office for Statistics Regulation have raise and , in February , I ask my official to explore with the ONS whether because of a lack of understanding of the question the census have the number right . we need to be very careful about language . People do not often understand what we mean when we use term such as transgender and gender identity . we have to make sure that they understand they . the ONS will be conduct and report on research to explore that issue , and it should publish the result by the end of the year and will monitor they go forward . some year ago , the United Nations find that disabled people ' s right be be systematically violate by Conservative Ministers . recently , the Equality and Human Rights Commission find that nothing at all have change . be the Minister not ashamed ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that matter . the point regard the ehrc be that it be an independent and public body , but I do not think that any Member come to this House to erode anybody ' s right whether they be disabled or have a health issue . I absolutely refute what the hon . Lady say . she should look at our action and our record of the work that we have do around british Sign Language and more widely . we stand by all constituent whatever their need . just before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I would like to welcome to this Chamber the grandson of Mahatma Gandhi . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 25 October . I know that the sympathy of the whole House be with all those affect by Storm Babet and in particular the friend and family of those who lose their life . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I join the Prime Minister in express my sympathy to all those affect by the recent storm . two million people just can not be sustain from 20 - odd aid lorry . utter catastrophe be be unleash in Gaza . do the Prime Minister not now see that only a humanitarian ceasefire can bring about the scale of emergency aid that be need ? of course Israel have a right to defend itself in line with international and humanitarian law , but we must also speak out when those law be breach . surely he agree that deprive 2 million civilian — a million of they child — of food , water , medicine and fuel be not in accordance with international law . will he press Israel to restore the supply of these essential for the sake of innocent civilian and the future of the entire region ? it be important that we do everything we can to get humanitarian aid to those who need it in Gaza , which be why , on Monday , we announce a doubling of our international aid to the region and why the Development Minister be actively engage with our partner on the ground to ensure that that aid get to those people as quickly as possible . double child rapist and murderer Colin Pitchfork have yet another parole review hear only a few week ago . I thank the Justice Secretary for have listen to I and engage the reconsideration mechanism rule . I know that the Prime Minister do not have any decision - make role on the independent Parole Board . it be independent of Government , but it be a wing of the Executive ; it be not the judiciary . do the Prime Minister agree that , generally , as a point of principle , man — sexual offender — who rape and brutally murder young woman , as Mr Pitchfork do to Dawn Ashworth and Lynda Mann in my constituency , should remain in prison for most of their natural life ? I agree with my hon . friend that the public should be confident that murderer and rapist will be keep behind bar for as long as be necessary to keep the public safe . that be why we be reform the parole system . our Victims and Prisoners Bill will mean that minimise risk and protect the public be the sole consideration in Parole Board decision . it will also give the Justice Secretary the power to step in on behalf of the public and take a second look at decision to release the most serious offender , include murderer and rapist . last week , we announce that we will be introduce long sentence for dangerous criminal . for the most heinous crime , life will mean life . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in his comment about all those affect by the storm . I start by welcome my hon . friend the new Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) — the first Labour MP ever to represent those beautiful town and village . he defy the odd , history and of course the fantasy Lib Dem bar chart . I also welcome my hon . friend the new Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) . she will be a powerful representative for her constituent . be the Prime Minister as relieve as I be that those constituent be not burden with his defeat candidate , who tell they — do not worry , Mr Speaker ; I be go to sanitise this — to eff off if they be struggle with the cost of living ? I be proud of what this government have be do to support the most vulnerable over the past year . in fact I join the right hon . and learn Gentleman in welcome the new member to their place . after all , I suspect that the new Member for Mid Beds may actually support I a little more than the last one — [ Laughter . ] I do notice that the new Member say that they will be oppose new housing in their local area , while the new Member for Tamworth claim that they will protect green space . I urge they to have a word with their leader , because that be not exactly his position — although with his track record of u - turn , who know what his housing policy will be next week ? so much for be the change candidate ! the Prime Minister can not even distance himself from those appalling comment . I have to ask he , where on earth do he think his candidate get the idea in the first place that throw expletive at struggle family be his Government ' s official position ? let we just look at the record of what this government be do to help those people : pay for around half of a typical family ' s energy bill over the last year , support worth over £ 1 , 500 ; the most vulnerable in our society receive £ 900 in direct cost of live support ; record increase in the national living wage ; record increase in welfare ; and this winter , pensioner to receive an extra £ 200 or £ 300 alongside their winter fuel payment to help they through what we know be a tough time . all of that significant support , fund by this government , would be put at risk by Labour ' s reckless plan to borrow £ 28 billion a year . the Prime Minister keep boast about how great thing be ; the voter keep tell he that he have get it wrong . I can see why the Tamworth candidate think that he be just follow Government line . annalisa and her two child live in their home for eight year . in May , they be kick out with a no - fault eviction notice . despite his Government ' s pledge to scrap no - fault eviction , this week the Prime Minister crumble to the landlord on his own Back Benches and kill the policy . what message , other than the message deliver by his candidate in Tamworth , could Annalisa possibly take from that ? we have take significant action to help renter like Annalisa and other . we have cap hold deposit at one week . we have protect tenant from rip - off tenancy fee , deliver almost half a million affordable home for rent , halve the percentage of substandard home in the private rented sector , and strengthen local authority enforcement power , because the Government be deliver for renter . we be also try to ensure that the new generation can buy their own home , so perhaps the Leader of the opposition can explain to Annalisa and million of other why when we bring forward plan to unlock 100 , 000 new home , he stand in the way of that ? [ interruption . ] order . just to say , it be Prime Minister ' s question , not opposition ' s question . [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Prime Minister ; it be Prime Minister ' s question . I do not need you nod against my decision . I be sure that Annalisa and her child , who have now be evict , will take great comfort from that non - answer . Emma and her teenage son see their mortgage go up by more than a quarter — [ interruption . ] Government Members may think this be funny , but this be real life . after 16 year of dutifully pay the mortgage , for the first time she be have to choose between new shoe for her son and put the heating on — all because the Prime Minister ' s party crash the economy , push mortgage rate to their high level in decade . he say , " ignore all that " — ignore the fact that the guilty man and woman responsible be stand again as his candidate and still set his policy . can he not see why Emma might think that his party be tell they exactly where to go ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman keep talk about the mini - Budget ; I will not ask he a question , Mr Speaker , but I will just point out that he actually support 95 % of the thing in that mini - Budget , which I do not . he have have a whole summer to get on top of the detail , but he be still ignore the fact that rise interest rate be a global challenge . they be at their high level in America and Europe for more than 20 or 30 year . mortgage rate have double in America and treble in Europe . to help mortgage holder , we want to ensure that they can use the mortgage charter we have agree with the bank . thank to the step we have take , someone with a £ 200 , 000 property with about £ 100 , 000 leave on their mortgage could save more than £ 350 a month and lock in a new deal six month before theirs end , and repossession will be prohibit for 12 month from the first miss payment . the right hon . and learn Gentleman might have miss that that policy be twice as generous as Labour ' s . absolutely tone deaf . in every caff , pub and supermarket in Britain , people be have the same conversation : " we can ' t afford that — put it back on the shelf . it ' s too expensive . " the Prime Minister be completely oblivious , just pat himself on the back . Emily and Jamie have work hard and be save to buy their own home . they be nearly there last year , but he scrap house building target because his Back Benchers push he around . House building have fall off a cliff , shatter the simple dream of home ownership for people like Emily and Jamie . can the Prime Minister now see that , actually , his candidate in Tamworth be just loyally follow the party line ? these prepare line really be not work for he any more . the right hon . and learn Gentleman literally ask I a question about the support we be provide for mortgage holder ; I give he the answer to that question and then he read from his script that I have not answer the question . we be provide significant help for all these people . the right hon . and learn Gentleman have move on to housing target . here be the record : 2 . 5 million additional home ; housing start double what we inherit from the Labour party ; housing supply up 10 % ; on track to deliver a million new home ; and a record number of first - time buyer . he bring up his candidate in Tamworth and Mid Beds as we open this session , and he be now say he want to build home ; well , both of those candidate say that they want to block new home in their constituency . Simon Hoare . rise — sorry — Keir Starmer . across our country the british people be roll up their sleeve and get on with it , do their good in the face of a punish cost of live crisis and a Government who have abandon they — abandon renter at risk of be kick out , abandon mortgage payer struggle to make end meet , and abandon people who dream of own their own house . the truth be that the Prime Minister ' s candidate in Tamworth sum up perfectly just how he and his Tories be treat the british public , so will he just call a general election and give the british public the chance to respond , as they do in Selby , Mid Beds and Tamworth ? they have hear the Government tell they to eff off , and they want the chance to return the compliment . as we see with the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s recent decision on build new house , politician like he always take the easy way out , whereas we be get on with make the right long - term decision to change this country for the well — on net zero , on High Speed 2 , on a smoke - free generation , on education and on energy security . contrast that with his leadership : too cautious to say anything and hope that nobody notice . let I tell he : come that general election , the british people will . I call Simon Hoare . More ! I say " Hoare , " not " More " . that be the first time I have be confuse with the Leader of the Opposition , Mr Speaker . there have be many rumour about you . and of all they be true , Mr Speaker . like I , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have the honour and privilege of represent a rural constituency . I be sure that he , like I , occasionally feel a certain degree of frustration that although progress have be make in this area , the rubric of funding formulae for thing such as the Environment Agency , local government , the police and education still fail to adequately reflect the difficulty and challenge of deliver public service in rural area . will my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the wide Government use the opportunity of the autumn statement and the forthcoming Budget to explore those issue far and make the delivery of service well for the Prime Minister ' s constituent and mine ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue on behalf of his and my constituent . it be vital that we have the same high - quality service in rural area as in our town and city . I be pleased to tell he that we be provide £ 95 million through the rural service delivery grant to help rural council achieve exactly that . we be currently review the police funding formula . I remember work with he to ensure that the national funding formula for school take account of the different characteristic of school and their pupil . we will continue to keep all those thing under review . I agree with he entirely : our rural community must be give the same funding and public service as everyone else in our country . I call the SNP deputy leader . yesterday , the UN warn that hospital in Gaza have just 48 hour of fuel leave to keep their electricity go . that be 28 hour ago ; the electricity run out tonight . we have a human responsibility to all the people in Gaza , but we have a particular responsibility for UK citizen , some of whom be in those hospital , with no food , no water , no medicine and no way out . how much bad do the situation have to get before the Prime Minister will join we in call for a humanitarian ceasefire ? from the start , we have say that the first and most important principle be that Israel have the right to defend itself under international law — our support for that position be absolute and unchanged — but we have also say from the start that we want british national to be able to leave Gaza , hostage to be release , and humanitarian aid to get in . we recognise that , for all that to happen , there have to be a safe environment , which of course necessitate specific pause , as distinct from a ceasefire . we discuss that with partner yesterday evening at the United Nations , and we have be consistently clear that everything must be do to protect civilian in line with international law and to continue get more aid flow into Gaza . the grow call for a ceasefire be also about calm the situation in the broad region , especially the west bank . unicef have report over 2 , 000 fatality and over 5 , 000 injure child since the conflict begin , due to unrelenting attack . if we ignore that , we risk pour petrol on a fire in a place that only require a spark to ignite . can the Prime Minister understand that join call for a ceasefire be now the good — and maybe the only — way to stop this conflict escalate beyond all control ? we have to remember that Israel have suffer a shockingly brutal terrorist attack . Hamas be responsible for this conflict , and Israel have the right to protect itself in line with international law , as the UN charter make clear . we will continue to urge the Israelis to follow international law , but we also have to remember that Hamas cruelly embe themselves in civilian population . we be do everything we can to get aid into the region . I be pleased to say that an RAF flight leave the UK for Egypt this morning carry 21 tonne of aid for Gaza . the relief supply include more than 75 , 000 medical kit , solar light and water filter for family , and warehousing equipment . our team be on the ground , ready to receive . we will continue to do everything we can to increase the flow of aid , include fuel , into Gaza . in the matter of Walleys Quarry , my constituent have be utterly let down and fail by the Environment Agency . not only have it fail to prosecute a rogue operator for the repeat breach of its permit ; we now learn that for the past seven year , all of its monitoring equipment — include in your constituency , Mr Speaker — have be grossly under - record level of hydrogen sulphide by a factor of approximately two or three . that be the monitoring equipment that people have be rely on to tell they that their air be clean and safe to breathe . give everything that have happen , we really need to see some proper action now . I have have enough of the EA , and my constituent have too , so will the Prime Minister do everything in his power to get a grip on this fail organisation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the concern of his constituent . the Environment Agency ' s criminal investigation be ongoing so , as I hope he understand , I can not comment far on it . however , with regard to his concern about the measurement inaccuracy , I have be assure — and have check — that the Environment Agency be work swiftly to understand the scale of the problem . the Environment Secretary be monitor the situation , and I have ask she to keep my hon . Friend update regularly . a few short month ago , the world come to Belfast to celebrate the Good Friday agreement . at the heart of that agreement be the realisation that we could not use violence as a tool for revenge or to achieve our political aim . as 1 , 400 Israelis and almost 6 , 000 Palestinians lie die or dead , when will the Prime Minister say enough be enough ? when will he call for a ceasefire ? when will he tell Israel to stop mete out collective punishment to the people of Gaza , and when will he and other world leader insist on a political solution that involve a palestinian state for the palestinian people ? as I say , an important principle be that Israel do have the right to defend itself under international law , to ensure that attack like this one — which be brutal and horrific for its citizen — can not happen again . we continue to support that position , but , as I say , from the start we have also want to ensure that humanitarian aid can go in and hostage and foreign national can come out . we recognise that that mean there have to be a safe environment , which of course necessitate specific pause , as distinct from a ceasefire . we discuss exactly this with our international partner yesterday at the United Nations and will continue to do so . as I make clear on Monday , we have double down on our effort to find a well future for the palestinian people . that have be a feature of all our diplomacy in the region , and we will continue to give all our effort to make that happen . for too long , Bradford Council have fail to represent the good interest of my constituent , whether in its catastrophic failure on child ' s service , its inability to invest our own council tax back into Keighley and Ilkley , or its refusal to instigate a review into child sexual exploitation across the Bradford district . local resident and I be feed up of be ignore by Bradford Council , and we want out . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss my case for leave Bradford Council and create our own unitary authority that well represent Keighley and Ilkley , put our priority first ? I know my hon . friend be a passionate campaigner on this issue , have even introduce a private member ' s Bill on it early this year . I agree that his council should be work to ensure that it deliver good service for all its resident , include his constituent , and I will certainly arrange for the relevant Minister to discuss his concern far with he . as my hon . friend do not do so , maybe I can plug his event this afternoon in the Jubilee Room — a Keighley and Ilkley showcase . perhaps the Minister can come to that event and discuss it in person then . just a year ago , the new Prime Minister promise to unite our country , not with word but with action . quite rightly , voter make a judgment on action , but in my constituency — as in many other — the Prime Minister have not deliver on his promise . Arbroath House in Easington Colliery be a gp practice without the funding to deliver basic community health service . community such as Shotton , South Hetton , Haswell and Horden lack the police officer to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . we see sewage be dump on our coastline at Seaham and Blackhall without prosecution of the privatised water company , and we see investment for level up block for Horden . when will the Prime Minister call a general election and let Labour rise to the task of rebuild Britain ? the hon . Gentleman raise crime . I be pleased to say that crime be now down by over 50 % since Labour be last in office , and that include significant reduction in antisocial behaviour , which he mention . indeed , early this year not only do we meet our pledge to deliver 20 , 000 more police officer — a record number on our street — but our antisocial behaviour plan be already make a difference , deliver immediate justice and clamp down on that type of activity . I support the Government ' s plan to build more home and ease housing shortage . however , I have significant concern about the impact of development on our age drainage system and the potential flooding risk this pose , as we be see in place such as the Hazelwalls development in Uttoxeter . what step will the Government take to ensure that , as more house be build , exist infrastructure be upgrade and maintain by local authority to ensure that it be not overwhelm with additional use and less permeable surface ? as my hon . friend know , our traditional drainage system be under increase pressure , and that compare with the benefit of sustainable drainage system , which work in a different way . it be already a requirement that sustainable drainage system should be give priority in any major new development and development in flood risk area , but early this year we commit to require sustainable drainage system in all new development , on top of defra ' s plan for water , which put a statutory duty on water company to produce plan to set out how they will improve , maintain and extend our robust and resilient waste water system . this morning , I host the MS Society and people live with multiple sclerosis to hear about their experience access personal independence payment . ten year on from its introduction , people with MS and other fluctuating condition be still too often be deny the support they deserve to manage the extra cost of their condition and to retain their independence for long . some 22 , 524 people with MS have sign a petition call for a full review of PIP for fluctuate condition , which be on its way to Downing Street right now . will the Prime Minister listen to their call ? I be very sorry to hear about the experience of those suffer with MS that the hon . Lady mention , and I will ensure that the Work and Pensions Secretary look at their concern and write to she . I call the Father of the House . we know that some duck serious question today , aim for electoral advantage in the future . may I note that the Prime Minister prefer to take decision that will benefit the country now and in the long term , so that we can have more job , well education and a share prosperity ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . while the final report of the infected blood inquiry have be postpone until March , Sir Brian Langstaff , the independent chair , have already publish his recommendation on compensation for victim of that scandal . will the Prime Minister explain why his Government insist on postpone their response until after publication of the final report , kick it into the long grass and delay justice , once again , for my constituent Justine , Rachel and Paul , whose father die as a result of that scandal , as well as thousand of other across these isle ? as I have say previously from the Dispatch Box , what happen be an appalling tragedy , and my heart go out to all of those affect and their family . I have give extensive evidence to the inquiry , so my position on this matter be on the record . what I would say be that extensive work have be go on in Government for a long time , co - ordinated by the Minister for the Cabinet Office , as well as interim payment of £ 100 , 000 be make to those who be affect . the Prime Minister have be a great champion of transport project on the Welsh border , include the electrification of the main line in north Wales , the reopening of Corwen station and the Gobowen to Oswestry line , and also substantial levelling - up fund investment in the Llangollen and Montgomery canal . will the Prime Minister now deliver on the long - await Pant - Llanymynech bypass and prioritise the dualling of the A5 / A483 in Clwyd South and North Shropshire ? we be make significant improvement to our cross - border rail service across the Union . thank to our decision on HS2 , we can now provide an unprecedented £ 1 billion of investment to fund the electrification of the north Wales main line , which will ensure reliable , punctual journey between north Wales and multiple city across the north - west of England . we be also continue to develop the Pant - Llanymynech bypass scheme in our next round of the road investment plan , and a section of the A5 in England will be consider by National Highways as part of the midland and Gloucestershire to Wales route strategy . it be important that the covid inquiry have all the relevant document ; that be what the public , include thousand of bereaved family , expect and deserve . but despite be a self - describe tech bro , the Prime Minister have be unable to locate and provide his WhatsApp message to the inquiry . do he agree that device should be hand over to expert to retrieve this information ? both the Government and I have fully co - operate to provide ten of thousand of document to the covid inquiry , and I look forward to give evidence later this year . with the ongoing national crisis in NHS dentistry be raise here most week , can my right hon . friend advise as to when the dentistry plan produce by the Department of Health and Social Care will be publish ? can he ensure that any clawed - back unspent fund be ringfence for NHS dentistry , so as to deal with emergency and to help clear the backlog ? we be invest £ 3 billion in NHS dentistry , and the reform dental contract be help to improve nhs access for patient . I be pleased to say that NHS dental activity in the past year increase by almost a quarter compare with the year before , but the forthcoming dental recovery plan , which will be out shortly , will include action to incentivise dentist to deliver even more NHS care . it be an honour to be elect to this place , and the standard by which we be expect to abide matter . do the Prime Minister therefore accept that it be ill - judge for he to fail to declare to Parliament that company link to his wife have benefit to the tune of £ 2 billion from a fund he have set up as Chancellor ? will he correct the record now ? it be worth bear in mind that Labour Front Benchers back the Future Fund when it be introduce — indeed , they be call for more funding for it , not less . the House will be aware of my wife ' s shareholding in various british start - up . that be her career . those be on the record , and I be happy to put that on the record again . it be worth bear in mind that the Future Fund help more than 1 , 200 different company . neither the Government nor the British Business Bank choose any of those specific investment ; it be open to any british firm that meet the criterion . the UK be at risk of be leave behind on hydrogen internal combustion engine . the EU and the USA now recognise hydrogen combustion engine as zero - emission and be support those industry , as all viable zero - carbon technology will be need — particularly for our hgv , accord to the Renewable Hydrogen Alliance . I be work with BorgWarner , PHINIA and many mp on HICE , because this issue be crucial for UK job , skill and manufacturing . will my right hon . friend commit to urgently extend the scope of the automotive transformation fund industrialisation grant to include hydrogen engine , so that we win the HICE race ? the Government be determined to ensure that the UK remain one of the good location in the world for automotive manufacturing . hydrogen fuel cell and their upstream supply chain be already in the scope of the ATF , and support for the fund have enable Johnson Matthey ' s £ 60 million investment in Hertfordshire to develop hydrogen technology . I be tell by the Secretary of State for Business and Trade that the Department for Business and Trade be continue to look at the future possibility for renewable hydrogen and will consider the fund ' s eligibility in light of the new development in this space . there be an email in my inbox from a constituent who have family in Gaza . it read : " my heart can ' t handle this anymore . we be be massacre , relentlessly bomb . home destroy . no water , no food , no electricity . " save the Children report that one child be kill every 15 minute . as I speak , the life of 130 baby in incubator be in danger if fuel do not reach their hospital in time . this be collective punishment of the palestinian people in Gaza , for crime they do not commit . how many more innocent Palestinians must die before the Prime Minister call for a humanitarian ceasefire ? I welcome the unity across the House on Israel ' s right to defend itself in the face of an unspeakable act of terror , but it be also clear that we must support the palestinian people ; they be victim of Hamas , too . Hamas use innocent people as human shield , and we mourn the loss of every innocent life of every people , every faith and every nationality . we be work as hard as we can to get as much humanitarian aid into Gaza as quickly as practically possible . last week , Suffolk experience its bad local flood for over 100 year , with community in and around Needham Market , Framlingham , Debenham and Wickham Market particularly badly affect . home and business have be destroy . in Suffolk , the community have rally together , in a very stoic and pragmatic way , to support those in need at this very difficult time . what long - term support can the Prime Minister offer to the people of Suffolk whose business and home have be affect by these flood , to help they to recover and rebuild ? flooding be a devastating experience , and I extend my sympathy to all those affect , include those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I be pleased to say that , through the flood recovery framework , we be confirm additional financial support for the most affected household and business . this will include a £ 500 grant for household and council tax discount and business rate relief of up to 100 % for three month . small and medium - sized business will also be eligible for a £ 2 , 500 business recovery grant , and there be a grant of up to £ 5 , 000 to make flooded home more resilient to future flooding . we recognise the heroic effort of local council like my hon . friend ' s and of emergency responder everywhere who have be work tirelessly in affected area . they have our thank , and we stand ready to consider any request from council to support their recovery effort . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the House rise tomorrow for 10 day , I believe . regrettably and sadly , it may be likely that a ground invasion of Gaza will commence during that period . this not only have consequence for the Palestinians and the Israelis , but could create turmoil and destabilise the whole middle east . I appreciate that it be the Government who determine whether or not Parliament be recall but , in your conversation with the Government , will you advise they that the House should be recall to debate such a serious issue ? you be absolutely right that it would not be for I under the normal rule , although I recognise the importance of a major escalation and what could happen in the middle east . you be correct that it would be for the government — not for I , unfortunately — to recall the House . I will work through the usual channel to try to ensure that , quite rightly , we look to see what can be do in what would be special circumstance , because obviously the House will have prorogue . I do not lose sight of what you have say , and I take it on board . I will work with other behind the scene to see how we would manage such a situation . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I can assure the House that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my office , and other Departments across Whitehall be very aware that this House will want to be keep update about the ongoing situation . many right hon . and hon . member will have constituent directly affect , and we be work with the House of Commons Library to ensure that people be update about the situation during the recess . okay , thank you . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance to understand how we can table write question about the Government ' s policy of evict Afghans from hotel accommodation — a project run by the Minister for Veterans ' affair out of the Cabinet Office . I have give the Minister notice that I would raise this issue . despite the Minister ' s have give multiple statement to the House this year on the housing of our afghan friend , my Front - Bench colleague and I be unable to table write question to the Cabinet Office , which instead be be reallocate to either the Home Office or the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the Table Office staff be great , but I think a bit of parliamentary plumbing need to be put in place to make sure that effective scrutiny via write question of the Minister lead this area be possible . please could you advise how I can ensure that the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs can be successfully scrutinise by write parliamentary question for the area he lead on in Government ? I be concern by what the hon . Member have raise and grateful to he for give I notice of his point of order . he will know that the Table Office be guide by Government Departments about the matter of which minister respond to question and on policy area . I will look into the matter ; I take it very seriously and I be very concerned . we all know that the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs be very concerned about veteran , so I be sure he will be disappoint to know that those question be not reach he . I will investigate . the Leader of the House be here , and I be sure that she will assist I . I be sure that we can work together , because no member should be unable to lay question to the Minister . minister be answerable to this House . all member , from whatever party , should have that ability . I be very disappointed by what I have be tell . we will get to the bottom of it . Register of Derelict Buildings Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 12 . 41 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require local authority to publish a register of derelict building in their area ; to make provision in respect of the preparation and maintenance of such register ; and for connected purpose . my home town , now my home city , be a place I be very proud of . Doncaster have many wonderful asset and the people be the good in the land . however , although 95 - plus per cent . of it be great , some part be not so . the Bill will make a real difference to that . derelict building be a problem . they blight our city , town and village . this place have provide local authority with power to tackle derelict building . sadly though , those power be not be use as we intend . the Bill will provide an incentive to local authority to do their duty and exercise their power for the community as Parliament intend . it will start to address their dereliction of duty . we do not even know exactly how many derelict site there be or precisely where they be . how can we as a society tackle the problem of derelict building until we truly know the scale of the problem ? it be a problem of real significance . as I come home on the train to Doncaster from Parliament on a Thursday evening , the first list building I see be Denison House by the railway station . the window be smash , weed be grow out of the guttering and there be general neglect — derelict . I walk through the station and see the Grand theatre , another list building — derelict , again . I walk through town past Waterdale — derelict . I pass by the new expensive and shiny but half - empty council building , and on South Parade I see another Denison House — also list , and also derelict . this be the former home of Sir Edmund Beckett - Denison , the man who in 1848 bring the railway to Doncaster . that building of his be now an eyesore — derelict , again . as I drive to the town and village across my constituency , I pass Tyram Hall — derelict . I keep on drive into Thorne to view the work to reopen the leisure centre , and I drive by Haynes House — derelict . I pass Thorne brewery — derelict . I have a Secretary of State visit Doncaster , and I take he to Edlington ' s leisure centre — derelict . Prince ' s Crescent — many property there be also derelict . the list go on and on . why be this so ? it be because there be no register , no personal responsibility and no example set by Labour - control City of Doncaster Council ; the power they hold be not be exercise . labour ' s care for our city be seemingly as derelict as the property I have describe . we can not let this state of affair continue ; if we do , all we shall see be further deterioration and more derelict building . it drag we all down to their level — level down , not level up . my Bill would ensure that all derelict building be identify . it would answer three question : first , what be the definition of a derelict building ; secondly , who will create and maintain the list ; and thirdly , how will it be accessible to the public ? Albert Einstein be repute to have say this about solve problem : " if I have an hour to solve a problem , I ' d spend 55 minute think about the problem and five minute think about solution . " I have give this considerable thought , and it seem to I that the first step must be to have a register of derelict building . the obvious body well place for this exercise would be the local authority . local authority already have the necessary infrastructure and resource . they have a list of all the empty building already . they maintain record for council tax and business rate for property , include those that be exempt . they will accordingly have a list of all building and structure within their area of jurisdiction , within their boundary . it be important to note that their department for planning and building control , as well as for council tax and business rate , will have record that can be cross - reference . not only be local authority an obvious candidate , but they be the one well place . there be no need to set up a quango , no need to spend enormous sum of taxpayer ' money and , as we have see , local authority already have the infrastructure and the record . it would merely be a question of identify which of the empty building be derelict . they all have website with information accessible by the public . the small step require of they by the Bill would not incur substantial additional expenditure . ongoing maintenance of the record would not require much time , effort or expense either . my Bill will be the first step on this journey to address the blight of derelict building in our community . this be the first step to the solution . by pass a law require all local authority to identify derelict building in their area , we can start to make progress . let I start with the definition . a derelict site be define in my Bill as a site that have a structure or structure upon the land that be ruinous , derelict or in dangerous condition . the next step be to identify the derelict building and property . council officer would first check their exist record for empty property . Most such property , if not all , will be easily identify by their status regard payment of council tax or business rate . a provisional list can be easily create which then should be publish . additionally , all local authority have district councillor , who should know their ward intimately — conservative councillor do ; that I do know . it seem to I that each councillor could easily provide the council with the detail and address of building they believe be an eyesore in their locality , and they should be put on a provisional list . I would not expect there to be many that be not in that list . those property would then be visit by council officer to establish the condition . the property on the provisional list would then be classify as derelict and the owner give 28 day ' notice of the intention to give that classification to the property . any owner would have the right to object , provide reason in writing . these objection could then be review . the local authority could then either withdraw the classification or confirm it . so why be such a list of any value to we ? the advantage be numerous . it would enable we first to know the scale of the problem . it would provide an incentive to all area to see that list reduce , rather than increase . should the building be leave as they be , be improve or be demolish ? these be question that will arise , and the right answer may be different across the board . should improvement work be exempt from vat ? should compulsory purchase order be make ? should owner be require to carry out improvement or demolition ? should they be persuade to address that by carrot or stick , or indeed by both ? many such question arise . the Bill do not attempt to answer they . it would , however , enable we for the first time to understand the scale of the problem face by every part of this wonderful country . I want to ensure that our city , town and village be not blight . derelict building be a blight — there be no doubt about that . let we identify the scale of the problem . let we learn from the wisdom of Albert Einstein . let we think about the problem . the Bill would enable we to do exactly that . then , and only then , shall we find the solution and return all our town and city to their former glory . question put and agree to . order , that Nick Fletcher , Dr Liam Fox , Antony Higginbotham , Mark Eastwood , Damien Moore , Paul Bristow , Brendan Clarke - Smith , Mark Jenkinson , Danny Kruger , Lia Nici , Alexander Stafford and Miriam Cates present the Bill . Nick Fletcher accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 378 ) . Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill consideration of Lords message after clause 180 - failure to prevent fraud I beg to move , that this House insist on its amendment 151A and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 151e and 151f . with this it will be convenient to discuss amendment ( a ) , and the follow motion : that this House insist on its Amendment 161A in lieu and disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 161D in lieu . I be pleased to bring this important Bill back to the House this afternoon , for what I sincerely hope be the last time , give that this will be the third time we have debate and vote on similar issue . I urge Opposition Front - Bench Members and those in the other place not to risk the safe passage of this hugely significant , near - 400 page Bill by continue to press these amendment . the Government have appreciate the input of right hon . and hon . member from both side of the House — include the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) — to help change the Bill for the well . we be discuss failure to prevent , together with the identification of doctoring . the Government be take world - lead measure — I think this be the first time that a major economy such as ours have implement they — which we should be proud we be implement through the Bill . of course , if the elect Chamber express its strong will on these remain issue for the third time , I very much hope that the other place will agree that now be the time for it to accept that position . I think we would all rather have what we have do than see all this good work be in vain by let the legislation fall . let I discuss the two issue in turn . I will keep my remark brief as the argument remain the same as on the precede two time we have discuss they . I will first address Lords amendment 151e and 151f on the " failure to prevent " threshold . I will also address amendment ( a ) , table last night by the right hon . member for Barking , on a Government review of the threshold . while my noble friend Lord Garnier ' s amendment have move close yet again to the Government ' s position by exempt micro - entity and small organisation from the offence , I be afraid that the Government will not support the lowering of the threshold at this time . let I repeat the reason why . it be already an offence to perpetrate fraud . the objective of the new offence be to ensure that there be accountability where fraud occur in large organisation . there be simply no need to apply any such offence to small organisation . every time such an offence be introduce , business owner end up distracted from run their business by take time to reassess their compliance risk , which often involve take professional advice . we assess that the revise threshold propose by Lord Garnier would cost medium - sized enterprise £ 300 million in one - off cost and nearly £ 40 million in annual recur cost . we should be make it easy for business to operate in the UK and only impose additional regulatory burden when absolutely necessary . the Government completely reject the notion of use such an offence simply to raise awareness among business owner of the seriousness of the problem of fraud . there would be other , more proportionate way to do that if necessary . in response to the amendment table by the right hon . member for Barking , the Government have already future - proof the Bill by include a delegate power to allow the Government to raise , low or remove the threshold altogether . of course , as with all legislation , the Government will keep the threshold under review . I make a personal commitment to do that and to make change if evidence suggest that they be require . I do not think that a Government review be necessary for that to take place , so I ask the right hon . member not to move her amendment . we must bear in mind that a review do not guarantee change anyway . what guarantee change be have the right people at the Dispatch Box make change , whether those be people from her party or my party , and both party be equally exercise by these concern . I urge all right hon . and hon . member to support the Government motion to disagree with the Lords amendment to ensure that we take a proportionate approach and do not impose unnecessary measure on legitimate business that would curb our economic growth . I turn to Lords amendment 161D , table by Lord Faulks , on cost protection in civil recovery case . the Government remain of the view that such an amendment would be a significant departure from a fundamental principle of justice — that the loser pay — and therefore not something that should be rush into without careful consideration . furthermore , as I set out when we last debate this issue , we have see no clear evidence that the amendment would increase the number of case take on by law enforcement . however , that be not to say that such an amendment be necessarily a bad idea . that be why we previously add to the Bill a statutory commitment to review the payment of cost in civil recovery case in England and Wales by enforcement authority , to publish a report on the finding and to lay that before Parliament within 12 month . with regard to civil cost reform in England and Wales , the Government would normally look to consult appropriate consultee , include the senior judiciary , the Law Society and the Bar Council . enact the reform now without a full review would not allow judge and relevant organisation , or indeed their counterpart in Northern Ireland and Scotland , to comment on how it would be read and apply in practice . we therefore feel it would be irresponsible for we to rush into make such a significant change at the end of a Bill ' s passage without full consideration by Government and further scrutiny by Parliament . I very much hope that all right hon . and hon . member will agree that that be the responsible approach to take and therefore support the Government ' s position . the Minister say clearly that there have be consultation with Scotland and Northern Ireland . will he indicate who those discussion have take place with ? be it bank , or the Departments look after matter in the absence of a function Northern Ireland Assembly ? I be keen to know who do the work to ensure that there be accountability for everyone . that be a good point . there be clearly different legal jurisdiction in Northern Ireland and Scotland , with of course the Court of Session in Scotland . from a legal perspective , the counsel in those jurisdiction be the people who discuss this . in wide issue such as failure to prevent , bank and many other stakeholder have people who will consult during the process . I be happy to keep up the conversation with the hon . Gentleman . the reason I ask the question be quite specific , although it might not necessarily relate to the issue directly . the Minister refer to bank . a number of local organisation and community group back home , which be register and constitute as community institution , have have their bank account close . bank have close their account down because they say they be non - profitable . be it right that bank should be able to do that ? I know the Minister understand the matter — order . can I just help a little bit ? the hon . Gentleman be very good , but his intervention be very long . why do he not put down to speak ? it might be easy . I have to get other people in as well . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important issue relate to the concern about de - banking that we have across the economy . the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) be look at it , as be the Treasury . in future , it be our intention to ensure that when bank close account they give a valid reason why , rather than close they summarily . he be absolutely right to raise the point and I be very happy to engage with he on it , because it affect business as well as community group . to conclude , I encourage everyone to agree with the Government ' s position on these two area . it be vital that we achieve Royal Assent without delay , so we can proceed to implement the important reform in the Bill as quickly as possible . it be an honour to speak on the Bill again . I be hope that we could conclude the proceeding on the Bill as soon as possible and it be disappointing that the Government be yet to make further compromise . the Bill be welcome in principle , but it should not have take the war on Ukraine to prompt the Government into action . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Members for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , and to Members across the House for work together to improve the Bill . economic crime pose a threat to our country ' s national security , our institution , our economy , and cause serious harm to our citizen and wide society . conservative estimate place the cost of economic crime at £ 290 million a year , accord to the National Crime Agency , and the failure to stop criminal benefit from the proceed of their crime can fund further criminality . that can include offence such as funding organise crime group , terrorist activity , drug dealing and people traffic — this be a very serious issue . economic crime , as the Minister know , have many victim . for too long , the Government have turn a blind eye to corrupt and dirty money , allow russian illicit finance to flood into Britain . that let Putin ' s crony stash ill - get gain and even recycle the proceed of crime into luxury property . that be well document and have be highlight by many member across the House , as well as in Select Committees . accord to analysis by Transparency International , property to the tune of £ 6 . 7 billion have be buy through suspicious wealth . of those , almost a quarter in value be " buy by Russians accuse of corruption or link to the Kremlin . " Most be hold via secretive offshore company . that drive up property price for ordinary people in our country . More than two - third of English and Welsh property hold by foreign shell company do not report their true owner . research by the London School of Economics and Warwick University show that the Register of Overseas Entities be not fully effective . for 71 % of such property , essential information about their beneficial owner remain miss or publicly inaccessible , despite the register . that mean we still can not know whether sanctioned individual , money launderer or other corrupt individual be benefit from those property . we must not sustain economic growth off the back of dirty money . the Government have already delay the Bill and these action for too long . in that time , money have be lose , economic crime have become ingrained and the UK economy have once again lose out . give that the nature and necessity of the Bill have already be discuss at length , I will focus on address the two amendment . during the passage of the Bill , helpful alteration have be make to ensure that it be robust . the Lords amendment before we today seek to address two omission . we be very disappointed that the Government be not willing to compromise and not willing to heed the wise and expert input of the Lords . that be deeply disappointing , because a great deal could be achieve if the Minister and his Government take note , include from hon . and learn member on their own side . rise — if the Minister be brief , rather than talk the Bill out like he do last time , I will give way . I will be very brief . on the question of compromise , the hon . Lady will have notice that there be no " failure to prevent " offence when the legislation be first table , nor be there an identification doctrine . there have be significant compromise on the Government side . our preference , clearly , be to move forward in that spirit of compromise . we have achieve a great deal with the Bill , which have move from under 300 page to 400 page . I do not think it be right to say that the Government have not compromise . when the Minister be a Back Bencher , he be a powerful advocate on the very issue we be discuss today . it be a shame he have be muzzle , but I appreciate that he be in a difficult position . I hope we can have some comprise , but clearly he have not manage to persuade senior member of his Government . I ask the Government to once again carefully consider these amendment , so that we can well tackle the problem of fraud and economic crime . the Minister highlight all the problem with the amendment , but I want to talk about their strength . the noble Lord Garnier ' s amendment on " failure to prevent " fraud , which exempt small and micro - enterprise , highlight that the criminal law should be uniform and apply to all in a similar way . this be not just a small insignificant amendment , but a change that would significantly alter law enforcement . for context , fraud be the most common crime in the UK , account for 41 % of all crime . introduce a " failure to prevent " offence would help to deter company from engage in or facilitate fraud . to fully change corporate behaviour , we must ensure that the offence apply to all company , regardless of size . as have be state on many occasion , since the " failure to prevent " bribery cover all company , there be no reason why this measure should not also cover business of all size . it simply create more discrepancy and confusion for business . the size of a business should not determine who be exempt . the Government have tout this exemption as a protection for small business against unnecessary red tape , but in reality this carve out deprive small and medium - size enterprise of the defence of have put in place reasonable anti - fraud procedure . small company will instead be cover only by the fraud offence itself , when large company would be catch by the light " failure to prevent " fraud offence . the introduction of a new " failure to prevent " offence should apply to all , and the corresponding defence of put in place reasonable defence procedure should be available to all . in effect , through this carve out , the Government be create an uneven playing field that be bias against small company . the Bill currently leave large gap for economic crime to not only persist but flourish , which I know be not the intention of the Minister . the amendment would have go a long way to address those issue . I ask he once again to carefully consider the amendment , rather than reject it . I want to turn to the amendment from the noble Lord Faulks , on cost protection in civil recovery case . the amendment give more discretion to court judge to alter the allocation of legal cost to ensure that extortionate legal fee be not a hindrance to justice . the spirit of the amendment be that it will help to prevent criminal benefit from the proceed of crime , here or around the world . when it come to case where enforcement agency be try to prosecute high - level , large - scale economic crime , cost order remain a serious barrier . I know that first - hand from evidence we receive when I serve on the Treasury Committee , where we conduct two inquiry on these issue . our enforcement agency need strong backing if they be to take on fraud , money laundering and other type of economic crime on the large scale . right now , the Government should be on the side of our agency , rather than tie their hand behind their back . the amendment would ensure that criminal , crony and kleptocrat be not give cover by leave the back door open for they to spend their way out of justice . that can not be right . it would ensure that the size of their bank account and asset do not give they a guarantee get out of jail free card just because they can afford to meet any expense require to support their case . the Minister know that this be a problem ; he have hear evidence of it . he know that it be a serious issue that need to be address . it have be disappointing to observe the Government ' s lack of willingness to protect our law enforcement . it seem reasonable that a court could have discretion on how to allocate cost , especially when we know of previous case , one of which result in a family ' s seek cost amount to a staggering £ 1 . 5 million . that represent 40 % of the National Crime Agency ' s annual budget between 2015 and 2018 . the Bill be almost over the line , and I acknowledge that there have be some improvement , but we could do a great deal more . we have welcome the Bill and we welcome the Lords amendment , so we be disappointed that the Government continue to fail to support they . we would be in a much well place if there be a compromise . the " failure to prevent " offence be a case in point . for year we have be call for a replication of the success of the Bribery Act 2010 . sadly , our capital city have be nickname " Londongrad " , and be now consider to be a capital where money laundering and fraud be rife . that mean that we must do more to tackle these issue , but the Bill provide only part of the solution . the present circumstance require much more radical action than the timidity that we have witness both today and in the last session . it be sadden that the Government have miss such an important opportunity . we will continue to hold their foot to the fire , but give the lack of compromise , it will be for the next government — the next Labour Government , I hope — to pick up the piece and toughen up our response in order to end the corrosive impact of dirty money in our country . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , let I point out — it may not be obvious — that we only have until 1 . 51 pm to complete this business . I therefore appeal for brevity . I be not go to impose a time limit , because give that everyone present be a distinguished and experienced Member , we should not need one . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I just want to be clear about this . I assume that we can speak until 1 . 51 pm , and vote after that . be that correct ? it be . let I say for the purpose of clarity that the right hon . Lady be absolutely correct . there have be a great deal of improvement in the Bill , and much of its content be welcome . I recognise that , and I also recognise what the Minister have say , but I be sorry to say that the dead hand of the Treasury have yet again get in the way of our get the Bill into the good possible state . let we be blunt about it . the Government , regrettably , have not move , which be why I support the amendment table by the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , which I have sign and which , I think , offer a sensible compromise . if it take long for the Treasury and other part of the Government to be persuade , well and good : let we have a proper review after 12 month . however , a serious issue have arise , and I want to make two brief point about it . let I deal first with the point make in the other place by Lord Garnier about the inherent contradiction in a test of criminality base on the size of an organisation . I can see that there be a proportionality point to be make about very small enterprise , but there be good evidence — and anyone who practise in the field will know — that fraud and other illicit activity be often channel through small company , and the people in those company be precisely the people over whom we do need to have a degree of control . law enforcement be not , with respect , needless bureaucracy ; it be fundamental to good business , and I think that that point be regrettably be miss . it be a point underline when we hear public evidence on the Bill . People explain to we how a number of different small company might well be set up to become conduit for fraud . that be a compelling point , and it accord with the evidence that the Justice Committee be give in relation to our inquiry into fraud in the justice system . the irony be that the Government ' s current stance may well create a perverse incentive . that be certainly not what the Minister want , and it be not what anyone in the House ought to want . the point about cost cap be important as well , but I be particularly exercise about the " failure to prevent " offence . everyone have argue for that , and we be nearly there . I hope that the Government , be reasonable , would say , " let we have a look at it ; let we have a commitment in the Bill . " I accept that the Minister be an entirely honourable man , and I accept what he say , but I know from personal experience that minister do not stay forever . at the end of the day , we want an assurance that this provision will be write into the statute and there will be a review , because it be so important . I beg the Minister to reflect on that . otherwise , those of we who want to be able to support the Government today will find ourselves in a position where we can not do so , although there be so little between we . the ability to move just that little bit far would send a much well signal . as it be , the Lords pass these amendment last time with large majority than before , and they will be entitle to take note of that in the event that the Bill go back to they again . I therefore hope that , even at the last minute , the Government will reflect . I call Dame Margaret Hodge . I beg your pardon ; I call Alison Thewliss . I know that when you refer to we all as distinguished and experience member you do not mean I , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be the third time we have be back here , and I think it incumbent on the Government to listen to the Lords . they have make it clear that they feel strongly about their very reasonable amendment , which show how important they be and how we should be get this right . there be no question that , as the Minister suggest , we be go to let the Bill fall today . I think that if he be worried about that he would accept the Lords amendment this afternoon , rather than allow the process to go on and on . we do not need to be here at the last minute ; he could have accept many of the amendment at a much early stage , because fundamentally he agree with they . we know that , because he say it on many occasion before he take ministerial office . I think that a great deal can be do if the Minister will make that compromise this afternoon . the notion that 99 . 5 % of business can be exempt from the " failure to prevent " offence be absolutely mad . small business be both part of and victim of economic crime . some figure from UK Finance arrive in our inboxe early today . accord to its finding , criminal steal £ 580 million through unauthorised and authorise fraud in just the first half of 2023 . UK Finance say that that be a 2 % decrease , but it be still a significant amount of money . business as well as individual be lose out , and the Government should be pay more attention to that . the Minister describe " failure to prevent " as a distraction for business . I wonder if he also think , for consistency ' s sake , that the " failure to prevent bribery " offence in the Bribery Act 2010 and the " failure to prevent tax evasion " offence in the Criminal Finances Act 2017 be distraction for business . if he think that " failure to prevent " economic crime be a distraction for business , he must surely think that those other offence be also an unnecessary bit of bureaucracy that business have to carry out . it do not make any sense . I fully support the level playing field for cost protection . we must give our enforcement agency both the tool and money to do their job . no enforcement agency should be think , " we can not afford to take on this case . we can not afford to prosecute these economic criminal . " the Government should be support law enforcement , allow this Lords amendment to go through , and ensure that we make the good possible legislation . there be no excuse for the Government not to do these thing . the Government agree with they , and we in the House agree with they on a cross - party basis . the Government should get on with it , and not return the Bill to the Lords . I will certainly remember your exhortation to brevity , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you know , that be something of a challenge for I at the good of time . no , no . I think my right hon . friend may suffer from the same affliction , dare I say ; but I will draw a veil of charity over that . my hon . friend — and my friend — the Minister have campaign assiduously with we in the trench on this issue for many year . I yield to none in my admiration for he , and I want to put on record how grateful I be that he be in this place , in that spot , do the job that he be do . we have come a long way . I well remember be on the Parliamentary Business and Legislation Committee give authorisation for this Bill in the first place , and know then that it would require heavy amendment during its course . it be inevitable that , in the light of the appalling incident in Ukraine and the change world situation , the Bill would develop and mature , and mature it have . the identification principle change be truly radical and reflect a view long hold by the Law Commission and other that we need to update the Tesco v . nattrass principle , which be now 50 year old . I salute the Minister and colleague in the Lords for make sure that that have happen , but I must press he again about the basis upon which the Government make assertion , very much at the last minute , about the regulatory or administrative cost burden on small and medium - sized business . I do not think that they be go to be as dramatically high as they assert . we have not have proper time to test the estimate , and I do not think that they stand up to scrutiny . they do not reflect the Government ' s position on previous " failure to prevent " offence — namely , for tax evasion and bribery — and this beg a huge range of question . there be no doubt that my colleague in the legal profession — I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests on every occasion , and I do so now — will feast upon these threshold definition . bad than that , unscrupulous operator in the field will exploit these threshold definition and find clever way around the law . we know what that mean . we will see shell company and people of straw . we will see the same behaviour that we be rightly try to eradicate because we want this country to be one of the good place in the world to invest . this be chiefly an economic argument . yes , there be a morality to it , but chiefly it be an economic argument . that be why , at the last minute as we come up to prorogation , I remind my hon . friend the Minister of the increase majority in the other place for these amendment and in particular of the attempt we have make to compromise with the Government . at the last minute , I impose myself upon the goodwill of the Clerks in order to get a further amendment in before the time limit . it be a manuscript amendment to increase the period of one year mention in the amendment to 18 month . it have not be select for debate , but the important political point that we wish to make be that we be seek at the last minute to come up with reasonable compromise . I will give the Minister another idea . bill normally come in with Royal Assent , which we imagine will happen either today or tomorrow with the prorogation ceremony . two month be the normal period for Bills to then come into force but he have the power to lay commencement order to ensure that certain part of this Bill do not come into force until a statutory instrument have be lay . he have that power , so why not use it in this case and accept the amendment table in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) ? he can see that we be command all the ingenuity that we have to come up with reasonable compromise that will allow the Bill to pass in the good possible order . I make a last - minute plea to he to accept these exhortation and not to oppose the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) and I . I can say no more to my hon . friend the Minister , other than to thank he and ask he to go that extra yard . this be another leg in a long journey . I want to focus on the amendment that stand in my name , which be support by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . may I place on the record my thank to everybody across the House , some of whom be here today , for the way in which we have manage to work together as member of Parliament and put our political affiliation behind we in try to find a common - sense , pragmatic way to tackle a horrific problem and to improve the Bill that be lay before we almost a year ago ? I also pay special tribute to member of the House of Lords , who have again work incredibly hard to improve the Bill in a practical way . in particular , I thank Lord Garnier , Lord Agnew , Lord Vaux and Lord Edward Faulks , all of whom have move important amendment that have be support by member across the House , many of whom be member of the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax . I draw to member ' attention what happen to the amendment to the " failure to prevent " measure . when it be first consider by the House of Lords it be pass by a majority of three . when it be consider a second time , it be pass by a majority of 26 . when it be consider a third time , last week , it be pass by a majority of 41 . so the strength of feeling in the other place about the importance of the proposition in the Bill simply grow over time , as the argument be hear by more and more member of the House of Lords , and I bet that if it go back again , it will get through again with an even great majority . I say to the Minister that people be vote for this and it be not just a partisan issue ; Cross - Benchers and member of the conservative party be either vote or choose to abstain . that be why we be secure those majority in the House of Lords . our amendment be move in the spirit of compromise . all we be say in that amendment be that we would require the Secretary of State to carry out a review a year after Royal Assent , with a report to Parliament within 18 month of Royal Assent , where it would assess the impact of exclude so many business from have duty to prevent fraud . it would also look at the impact of that on the incidence of fraud and assess the potential merit of bring more company into scope . I want to take member back to when the Government promise to introduce a " failure to prevent " offence on the basis of new clause introduce by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon and the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst when we consider the Bill on Report . they be detail new clause to which we have give great thought . the Government agree at that point to adopt our proposal on the basis that we would not seek to divide the House on the issue . we keep our side of the bargain but , sadly , the Government have fail to deliver on their commitment . so Lord Garnier try valiantly three time to hold the Government to their word , and every time he put it to a vote he get a great majority in favour of what he be propose . this measure be first champion when the Minister be a Back Bencher , as he be well aware . he be the individual on our all - party parliamentary group who argue the case for it with the great passion and commitment , so it be especially sad that the effectiveness of the new offence have be so undermined and weaken by the change he have choose to make or be force to make by colleague in his own Department or in the Treasury . he often argue that we be the first country to introduce a " failure to prevent " offence . I agree with that , but I would simply say to he we be also the jurisdiction of choice for dirty money , so surely we have a duty , more than any other jurisdiction , to lead on reform and to clamp down on this evil matter . the Government ' s change have substantially weaken the power of the new offence , and the Minister have to accept that . he have take out the failure to prevent money laundering , and the offence now cover only fraud . he have exclude all medium - sized , small and micro - business . that mean that his carveout have exclude 99 . 9 % of all business . it have exclude two third of all the people employ in private enterprise . it have exclude half the turnover that flow through private enterprise . I say to the Minister that this be a miss opportunity by his Government that represent a failure to act firmly and decisively against the scourge of dirty money . the Government ' s own report , " National SME Fraud Segmentation " , find that medium - sized company employ between 50 and 250 employee be significantly more likely to experience fraud than large company . the Metropolitan police and UK Finance have warn that sme be particularly vulnerable to fraud , and the procedure to prevent company from commit fraud be exactly the same as the procedure to prevent company from experience fraud . why on earth and on what basis have the Government choose to excuse they ? I can not understand the logic . some of the most worrying actor that we know be engage in either connive or facilitate fraud be now out of scope . if we look just at law firm , we see that only 100 of the 10 , 400 law firm in Britain today be now likely to be in scope . just yesterday I have a meeting with Lloyds bank , which describe to I a terrible scam relate to house purchase whereby the purchaser have an endless round of email with the solicitor about all the detail of the purchase of a property , but then an email appear change the bank detail to which the purchaser should pay the deposit . as the solicitor do not have the system in place to check on that , the purchaser pay into a fraudulent account and lose the deposit on the house , which be a massive amount of money . if the solicitor have have those procedure in place , that fraud might never have occur . I repeat to the Minister that only 100 of the 10 , 400 law firm in Britain will now be in scope , if the Government ' s will hold . the right hon . Lady be make very important point . however , the " failure to prevent " offence , as draft , would not cover that situation , because it cover only situation where the benefit be to the corporation concern or an officer within it . a situation in which a third party hijacked system would not be cover , whatever the threshold . that be an interesting point . the simple response be that , obviously , the drafting of the " failure to prevent " offence need further improvement to ensure that it cover that sort of instance . there be similar argument about the burden on sme when we introduce the Bribery Act 2010 . in 2015 , a survey of sme find that nine out of 10 have no concern or problem with the Act , and 90 % also say that it do not affect their ability to export . although fear be express before legislation be introduce , once it be on the statute book people find that it actually help they . under the term of the Bill , sme already have an appropriate defence , as the Minister well know : that they should only take action that be reasonable in all circumstance . that test of reasonableness would protect microbusinesse and sme from have to engage in overly bureaucratic procedure . although the argument be overwhelming , the Minister do not agree . we have hope that the Government would support and accept our amendment . if they be to do so , we would not put all these amendment to the vote . this mean that the next government — a Labour Government , we all hope — will seize the opportunity that the Minister have miss and grasp the issue . labour will become the anti - corruption champion , save our country and our economy . this Bill arrive in a sorry state and we have improve it — I accept that — with the identification doctrine , clause on strategic lawsuit against public participation , the improvement of accountability with an annual report to Parliament , and the reluctant acceptance that there may be an increase in fee for Companies House . but there be still large gap . trust have not be cover , as they should be , and authorise corporate service provider could end up with a future dud register . cost cap , which other hon . member have allude to , be not in there , the whistleblow regime be not in place , and asset seizure still have to be tackle . we hear whisper that there be a third economic crime Bill . I be pleased about that , but if we have achieve more with this Bill , we might not have need another one . after all the work that all of we have do to achieve cross - party consensus , and give the value that we all share , I would hope that the Minister would be bold enough to accept our tiny little compromise and put this Bill to bed so that the propose legislation could be pass by the time we prorogue . I rise to speak in favour of the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , which give I an opportunity to thank she for her extraordinary leadership on this agenda . our country be safe and strong for the work that she have help lead in this House over a long period . like other right hon . and hon . member , I be grateful to the Minister for ensure that , by and large , we have approach this Bill in the spirit of compromise . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to say that , unfortunately , the Bill arrive in this place in a sorry state . of course , the good way to examine that be to look at the fantastic manifesto of the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , which , of course , the Minister use to co - chair . when I look at that manifesto , which we launch together in Westminster Abbey not too long ago , I see that this Bill cover a fair number of its proposal , but not all of they . that be why something of a mystery still hang over the Chamber today , and that mystery be that we know that the Minister probably want to go much far in this Bill . he have be collegiate enough not to explain to we , either in public or in private , just how his hand be tie and why he have pull his punch on so many of the policy proposal , include those that we be debate this afternoon . I want to underline why the " failure to prevent " clause be so important and why the responsibility for fail to prevent fraud and money laundering should apply to all company , not just 9 % of UK plc . we know , as my right hon . Friend say , that unfortunately this country be now one of the two global centre for money laundering and fraud . that be a badge of shame . there be think - tank in place such as Washington that now write report about what they call the UK kleptocracy problem . that be because we have leave our financial service and Companies House too weak to police what be a grow problem . to underline how fast the risk to our country be grow , I ask the House of Commons Library to look at the amount of foreign direct investment that be come into our country . foreign direct investment come into Britain through company that be set up at a moment ' s notice , from UK offshore account , from dictatorship and from country that be only partially free , and the reality be that that money have grow fivefold since 2010 . a quarter of a trillion pound of foreign direct investment have come into Britain from UK offshore account , dictatorship and country that be only partially free . overwhelmingly , I be sure , that money be clean and good , but we all know in this House that some of it be not . we have a responsibility in this place to make sure that our regime for police corrupt money be as strong as it possibly can be . this Bill , although it make progress , still leave weakness in the argument . the Minister have base his argument more recently on whether we be create undue , over - burdensome cost to business . like he , I be in business previously — I be in the wrong place at the wrong time — and be elect to this place in 2004 . I know what it be like to grow a business from two people around a table to a multi - million pound enterprise that employ lot people . I know about the responsibility on company director , but we grant special privilege to company director in this country and we grant special privilege to company . that regime be introduce in 1855 . when Viscount Palmerston move that legislation through the House , he say that the Limited Liability Act 1855 be important , because it would act for the common good of the country . yet , if we have a regime that do not ensure that director have responsibility that match those privilege , frankly , that common good be undermine . as my right hon . Friend say , we already have a regime in this country that bestow some important responsibility on director , include the failure to prevent bribery and the failure to prevent tax evasion . therefore , there be already important regulatory requirement on director , which we as a House have judge to be essential to keep our economy clean . ask those director to take one more responsibility , which be to prevent fraud , be not a significant extra burden . do my right hon . friend not agree that if we be to have a successful financial service sector , we will never get it on the back of dirty money ? therefore , it be ever more important that , in relation to both fraud and money laundering , we have a " failure to prevent " offence , which be not about bang up people in prison but about change the behaviour of company and those who work in they ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a point of cross - party consensus . I know it be a point of cross - party consensus because it be the Minister who use to use precisely the same argument to argue for some of the change that we see in the Bill . we all know that our country do well , because , by and large , we have a reputation for clean trade around the world . when company file and incorporate in this country , that be a credential that do they well around the world . that be a credential that we must do everything in this House to protect , which be why the amendment be so important . we can not leave a weakness in our armour as crime and fraud multiplie . the Minister say that the proposal would be a cost to british business that we could not withstand or sustain , but the truth be that , while it might be a cost to some british business , it would also be a saving to british business , to the british economy and to british taxpayer , because it be always cheap and more effective to prevent fraud in the first place than to have to police it or to prosecute fraud after the event . when 64 % of business — small business — in this country be victim of fraud , we can only imagine how widespread that cost of fraud have now become . that average be much high than international average and therefore there be an additional argument that we need to go that one step far to make sure that we be do everything in our power to prevent fraud from arise in the first place . all we ask in this amendment be for the Minister to face the fact . he should bring the fact together , put they in a report , assess they , analyse they and present some conclusion to the House . how can we have a situation where the Minister be essentially ask for the freedom to look away ? that simply can not be the basis of good policy . I be grateful to my new colleague on the Business and Trade Committee who agree yesterday that we will ask representative of Companies House to come before we for hearing . frankly , if the Minister be not prepared to put the fact around fraud in one place , I shall ask the Select Committee to do the job for he . with the leave of the House , I wish to thank member who have contribute to the debate . we have much in common , despite the fact that some small difference still remain . as I say early , the Government have come a long way since the original tabling of the legislation . the number of page have increase by more than 100 , so the content of the Bill now stand at nearly 400 , which show the importance of the legislation that we be debate . I do not agree with the shadow Minister when she say that the Government have not be willing to compromise — that be not the case at all . the " failure to prevent " offence , particularly the identification doctrine , be key , world - lead measure . in my opening remark , I make the commitment — and I make it again — that will we keep this matter under review , and that include , in particular , the threshold . even if there be a requirement for review in statute , there be no requirement on the Government to make change follow that review , so it be important to maintain the goodwill that we have experience during the passage of the Bill . perhaps the Minister can tell I what he mean when he say that he will keep this matter under review . what precisely do that mean ? the way that we have legislate here , and the reason for do so in that way , have always be inform by information that have come from third party — from Spotlight on Corruption , Transparency International and other — that have be interested in the Bill . the right hon . Lady and I have work together on this issue in the past in various all - party group . those be the kind of body that will inform progress as we implement this legislation , which again I say be world lead . the shadow Minister talk about a level playing field and say that these measure move away from that . I could not disagree more . the key thing be that we do not have a level playing field now . in small company , it be much easy to identify who be responsible for a fraud . that be why it be more difficult in large company , which be why we be apply this to large company . Fraud be fraud whatever the size of the company . this legislation do not allow small or medium - sized company to facilitate fraud — if they be guilty of fraud , they be guilty of fraud and it be far easy to identify the people concern . let I address the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) and thank he for all the work that he have do on this legislation and on the Justice Committee . I ask he not to doubt my motive ; I have not be influence by the Treasury at all . I be influence by want to do the right thing in term of both tackle economic crime and make sure that we do not put undue burden on business . I can assure he that , for as long as I be in this role , we will keep this under review and make sure that the threshold be fit for purpose . my hon . friend talk about good business , but it be good business to make sure that we do not put undue burden on business . I can promise he that , from my experience — while I be chief executive of my company — we implement the rule on bribery and tax evasion , which be significant in our business . these would be significant measure for business . I say to he and to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) that they will have a real impact on business and significant cost of implementation . I do not think that they would be proportionate or need within small enterprise , because of the ease of identify the people responsible if fraud be facilitate in an organisation . I appreciate the kind word of my right hon . and learn Friend and the work that he have do . I remember lobby he on this issue when he be the Secretary of State for Justice — and a fine job he do . we have get much far this time than we do at that time , which show our collegiate way of work all the way through the Bill ' s passage . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) have also do fantastic work in this area , and I appreciate all her effort . she say that we do not agree . we have a right to disagree where we disagree , and we honestly disagree about whether this proposal be require . we do not want to put unnecessary burden on business . I completely understand the strength of feeling of the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) on this matter . I , too , feel strongly about implement the right measure to tackle economic crime while not put undue burden on business , so I say to she again , in the spirit of good will that we have operate under for many year , we will keep this under review . if the threshold need to be change , we can do that under secondary legislation . I congratulate the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) on his election as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I know that he will do a fine job . he be right that , in that spirit of good will , we have achieve much in the manifesto that we launch just over the road . again , I hope that he do not doubt my motive in what we be do to tackle economic crime without put undue burden on business . I urge everyone to support the measure that we have in place already , and I ask those in the other place to respect the clear will of this House . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 208 , Noes 274 . question accordingly negative . order . before we proceed to the next Division , I must inform the House that it have be draw to my attention that the election for the Defence Committee Chairman in the Aye Lobby be due to be open until 2 pm . that , of course , be interrupt by the Division , and I understand that one or two tardy member have yet to vote . shame ! name they ! I could , but I win ' t . follow the end of all the Divisions , and time have be allow for the necessary facility to be reinstate , the ballot will be open again for the time lose : a further 11 minute . you have be warn . More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 4 September ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . Main Question put . Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 280 , Noes 207 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House insist on its Amendment 151A and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 151E and 151f . order . there be no end to the variety and excitement that this House can offer . I be advise that the Order Paper , which we all know be gospel , say that the Defence Committee ballot should close not at 2 o ' clock but at 2 . 30 , so at least two member — I know they both — will have another 41 minute to vote after the next Division . actually , it will be 45 minute because , I be tell , the facility have to be clear and will no doubt have to be reinstate . I suggest that member who have not vote do so fairly quickly . motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its amendment 161A and disagree with Lords amendment 161D . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 280 , Noes 208 . question accordingly agree to . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . as you know , the House will later vote on the issue of the hon . member for Wellingborough ( Mr Bone ) and the Independent Expert Panel ' s report . of course , we do not have a chance to debate the issue , the content , or the pro and con of that report : we merely vote on it . it be in that context that I wish to raise with you a report on the BBC this morning , entitle " Peter Bone : abuse by MP leave I break , former aide say " , which contain a very extensive , one - sided attack on the hon . member for Wellingborough . this be not in any way to judge the right and wrong of this matter , but merely to put the principle of natural justice first . it be an anonymous briefing against a name Member of Parliament on a day on which , as the BBC accept , MPs would be vote on this issue . what I would like to know from you , Mr Deputy Speaker , be whether this be an undue attempt to influence member of Parliament on the day of a vote that should be our business in this House , and indeed , whether it be an attempt to manipulate member of Parliament . this do not just relate to this case , but to any case that we may have to consider in the future . I would like to ask you to ask Mr Speaker , who have always defend the right of this House , whether he will take legal advice on whether this particular report today constitute contempt for the House . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that I be not in a position to answer the specific question that he raise , but I do know that the director general of the British Broadcasting Corporation will be in this building later today , and if Mr Speaker choose to ask to see he , I imagine that he will make himself available . I also know that Mr Speaker take this very seriously indeed , and that legal advice be be seek . Non - domestic Rating Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Non - Domestic Rating Bill for the purpose of supplement the Order of 24 April 2023 ( Non - Domestic Rating Bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Julie Marson . ) question agree to . Non - Domestic Rating Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 1 . if Lords amendment 1 be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter into the Journal . clause 13 - Requirements for ratepayer etc to provide information I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 and 3 . it be a pleasure to return this Bill to this place after its positive reception , both here initially and in the other place more recently . reform business rate be a manifesto commitment , and have conclude our review of rate , the Bill seek to deliver a fair and more effective business rate system . the amendment that the Government invite the House to support today be minor and do not change the policy intention of the Bill , which we have debate before in this place . two amendment deal with the penalty regime for the new duty on ratepayer in clause 13 — they be design to ensure that the penalty system be fair — and the third be a minor and technical amendment that remove some obsolete wording as a result of another part of the Bill . I will deal with each amendment briefly . lord amendment 1 concern the civil penalty that the Valuation Office Agency can apply if ratepayer do not provide information under the duty . these include an additional daily penalty of £ 60 , which may only be apply if a ratepayer persistently fail to meet their obligation follow an initial penalty notice . the Government have listen to the view of the expert in the other place and agree to create an additional safeguard for ratepayer by cap the financial value of penalty that can be impose under this provision . daily penalty will be cap at £ 1 , 800 , equivalent to 30 day ' worth of penalty . this change will also bring the valuation duty in line with the separate duty to provide his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs with a taxpayer reference number , for which a cap on penalty be already in place . lord amendment 2 concern the penalty for the criminal offence of knowingly or recklessly make a false statement , an offence that be subject to high penalty than simply fail to comply . the Bill prescribe that for a high penalty to be apply , the VOA must be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the ratepayer have make the false statement knowingly or recklessly . have reflect , we have recognise that we need to apply the same burden of proof to the procedure on appeal . the amendment therefore provide that the valuation tribunal must remit a penalty unless it be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the ratepayer have knowingly or recklessly make a false statement . this provide additional protection for ratepayer . finally , Lords amendment 3 be a minor and technical change to the Local Government Finance Act 1988 , as a consequential effect of the provision in the Bill concern business rate multiplier . this be simply a draft correction to improve the clarity of the statute book , and the Government do not foresee any practical effect . the Government invite the House to agree to three minor amendment that be unanimously support in the other place . lord amendment 1 and 2 refine and improve the compliance framework for the new information duty , and Lords amendment 3 be a minor consequential change to improve the clarity of the statute book . I commend they to the House . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . I be pleased to respond to these three Lords amendment on behalf of the Opposition . clause 13 of the Bill introduce new duty on ratepayer to provide information to the Valuation Office Agency in order to support digitisation and a short revaluation cycle . it also introduce penalty to promote compliance and establish an associate appeal system . through the Bill , ratepayer will initially face a penalty for fail to comply with the new duty the Bill introduce . if , have receive that initial penalty , the ratepayer continue not to comply for a further 30 day , they will be liable for an additional penalty of £ 60 per day . as we hear from the Minister , Lords amendment 1 cap the total charge arise from that additional penalty at £ 1 , 800 , equivalent to 30 day ' worth of daily fine . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) say on Second Reading , we be aware of concern relate to the new duty and the associate penalty from those represent shop , and small shop in particular . although I doubt that all the concern of those representative organisation and their member have be address by the Government , we realise that this limit on the level of the penalty may help to protect ratepayer from much large charge while still support the Valuation Office Agency ' s move toward frequent revaluation , which we support . on that basis , we will not be oppose its inclusion in the Bill . through clause 13 , the Bill also introduce a new criminal penalty , which apply if a person make a false statement while purport to comply with the new duty it introduce . the Bill set out that the Valuation Office Agency will decide whether an offence have be commit , and its decision may be appeal to the Valuation Tribunal for England . as originally draft , the Bill permit the tribunal to remit such a penalty when it be not satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the person have knowingly or recklessly make a false statement . lord amendment 2 would require , rather than merely permit , the tribunal to remit the penalty in such circumstance . we believe that the amendment be sensible , so we will not be oppose its inclusion in the Bill . finally , Lords amendment 3 make a technical change to the Local Government Finance Act 1988 , omit section 140 ( 2 ) ( b ) of that Act . that section , which refer to Ministers make separate estimate of rateable value for England and Wales , have become obsolete as a result of clause 15 of the Bill , which make a separate provision about the calculation of multiplier for England . as this be essentially a draft amendment , we will not be oppose it either . I be tempt to talk at much great length about Labour ' s plan to scrap the current system of business rate , replace it with a system of business property tax that rebalance the burden of business property taxation away from the high street and retail firm towards online tech giant . however , I realise that that may be out of scope and that time be tight , so I will simply confirm our intention not to oppose any of these three amendment . this Bill , unlike the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , on which we consider a further round of Lords amendment yesterday , have progress through Parliament quickly . second reading in this place take place on 24 April , and the Bill will complete its passage today or tomorrow . it be a 2019 conservative manifesto commitment to carry out a fundamental review of the business rate system . this Bill be the start of that process , but it do not mark its completion , and on its own it can not be describe as fundamental . the amendment before we be straightforward . lord amendment 3 be a draft correction to omit a requirement relate to Wales that be now obsolete . lord amendment 1 and 2 relate to the new duty to notify . they cap the level of , and increase the burden of proof require for , penalty that will be apply for not comply with the obligation to give require information to the Valuation Office Agency . they be to be welcome , but as highlight on Report , this burden should have be much reduce and there should be reciprocal penalty on the VOA . as I have mention , this Bill must mark the beginning of the reform of business rate , not the completion of the task . business rate remain a heavy and uncertain burden on many business . they act as a brake on growth , disincentivise capital investment and be a barrier to level up . reform must be more radical and must be carry out much more quickly . I urge the Government to strive towards achieve the follow goal . first , the uniform business rate multiplier must be reduce to an affordable level . the UBR currently sit at 51p in the pound . at such a high level , it deter investment and ultimately reduce the tax base . it should be reduce to the order of 34p , the level at which it be first introduce in 1990 . lower the UBR would have the long - term effect of expand the tax base . a failure to do this will ultimately see the Government increase the UBR on an ever - shrink tax base , and in do so , threaten a vital source of local government revenue . secondly , as important as they be to so many business , we ultimately need to remove the myriad stick plaster relief that be invariably lobby for and announce at every spring Budget and autumn statement . they be an implicit admission that the UBR be too high . the Government have be force to offer many of these relief as many business be unable to pay a UBR of 51p . by remove these relief and reduce the UBR , the Government would simplify the system and reduce the administrative burden on both ratepayer and the VOA . instead of the annual cliff edge , as business lobby for and then nervously wait for a relief to be extend , such a reform would introduce an element of long - term certainty , which would encourage investment . finally , while the Government have take a welcome step in the right direction by move to three - year revaluation , they must keep go towards the ultimate goal of annual valuation . shorter valuation be necessary to ensure that business rate respond to the dynamic and increasingly volatile movement of the market . it be vital that rateable value be assess as frequently as possible to ensure that ratepayer be pay a fair amount . my last point be to express regret at the curtailment in the definition of a " material change of circumstance " . this be a provision that give ratepayer recourse to pursue a relief on their business rate bill when circumstance outside their control hinder their ability to run their business . despite the Government ' s protestation , the Bill in effect disapplie many common situation of material change that up to now have be acknowledge as such and be even describe in the VOA ' s own guidance . in conclusion , this be the start of the reform of business rate , but it be not the finish . there be some way to go before we reach that Magnus Magnusson moment . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for listen to my concern during the passage of this Bill , and I be grateful to he for meet I last month to discuss the situation . I have subsequently write to my hon . friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury set out some idea as to how this reform process can be continue . I would be grateful if he and she commit to complete the task of the fundamental review of business rate that be so vital for business large and small all around the UK . I will not seek to detain the House for any more than a few second . I express my gratitude to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , for his constructive comment and his willingness to support the amendment , as well as for resist the temptation to go over again some of the thing we have talk about in previous iteration of this Bill . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , who have be involve since the beginning . he have do the House a significant service in both review the Bill and offer his comment during its passage . as he say , this be a significant change and one that I think everybody accept be a big leap forward , particularly on the revaluation frequency move from five to three year . while we be on the subject of late 1990 game show , although in his view we have not yet finish this matter — I accept that we never finish — we be grateful for his " mastermind " quality in look at this Bill over the past few month . lord amendment 1 agree to . lord amendment 2 and 3 agree to . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the Order of 3 July 2023 ( Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Julie Marson . ) economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - impact assessment : trade and diplomatic relation " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must conduct an impact assessment of this Act ' s impact on the United Kingdom ' s trade and diplomatic relation with the following country — ( a ) Afghanistan ; ( b ) Bangladesh ; ( c ) Belarus ; ( d ) Central African Republic ; ( e ) China ; ( f ) Colombia ; ( g ) democratic People ' s Republic of Korea ; ( h ) Democratic Republic of the Congo ; ( i ) Egypt ; ( j ) Eritrea ; ( k ) Ethiopia ; ( l ) Haiti ; ( m ) Iran ; ( n ) Iraq ; ( o ) Libya ; ( p ) Mali ; ( q ) Myanmar ( Burma ) ; ( r ) Nicaragua ; ( s ) occupy palestinian Territories ; ( t ) Pakistan ; ( u ) Russia ; ( v ) Saudi Arabia ; ( w ) Somalia ; ( x ) South Sudan ; ( y ) Sri Lanka ; ( z ) Sudan ; ( aa ) Syria ; ( ab ) Turkmenistan ; ( ac ) Uzbekistan ; ( ad ) Venezuela ; ( ae ) Yemen ; ( af ) Zimbabwe . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must produce a report on the outcome of the impact assessment . ( 3 ) the report mention in subsection ( 2 ) must be lay before Parliament as soon as reasonably practicable after the impact assessment have be conduct . " — ( Chris Stephens . ) this new clause would require the Government to undertake an assessment of the impact of the Act on the UK ' s trade and diplomatic relation with the country identify by the fcdo as human right priority country . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — economic impact assessment for Wales — " within three month of the passage of this Act , the Minister for the Cabinet Office must lay before Parliament an assessment of the impact of the Act on the economy in Wales . " new clause 3 — assessment of the impact of the Act on the provision of food compliant with religious dietary belief and on the prevention of discrimination — " within six month of the passage of this Act , a Minister of the Crown must lay before Parliament a statement on their assessment of the impact of the Act on — ( a ) the procurement of food meet religious dietary belief , and ( b ) the prevention of discrimination on ground of religion or belief . " Amendment 12 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but subsection ( 2 ) do not have effect in relation to a decision which fall within the competency of Senedd Cymru unless Senedd Cymru have pass a resolution grant its consent to the application of that subsection to such decision . " this amendment would require the consent of Senedd Cymru for the Bill to apply to decision within the sphere of Welsh devolve legislative competence . amendment 26 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out " must not have regard to a territorial consideration " and insert " must not act " . this amendment , and Amendment 27 , would remove the reference to a " territorial consideration " in the legislation . amendment 36 , page 1 , line 6 , leave out from " would " to " be " in line 7 , and insert " be " . this amendment be to probe the use of a subjective , rather than an objective , test to establish whether a decision - maker have contravene clause 1 . amendment 35 , page 1 , line 6 , leave out from " that " to " influence " in line 7 and insert " be " . this amendment be to probe the use of a subjective , rather than an objective , test to establish whether a decision - maker have contravene clause 1 . Amendment 27 , page 1 , line 9 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment , and Amendment 26 , would remove the reference to a " territorial consideration " in the legislation . amendment 37 , page 1 , leave out line 20 to 22 . this amendment be to probe the impact of the legislation on individual , such as those work within public authority . Amendment 34 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but section 1 do not apply to decision of Scottish Ministers . " this amendment would remove decision of Scottish Ministers from the scope of the Bill . amendment 14 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . this amendment would remove provision allow Ministers to amend the Schedule , via regulation , to add a description of decision or consideration , or amend or remove consideration add under previous regulation . amendment 18 , page 2 , line 28 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment , and Amendments 19 and 20 , seek to remove Scotland from the extent of this Bill . amendment 13 , page 2 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) section 1 do not apply to a decision which have be make in accordance with a statement of Policy relate to Human Rights . ( 4b ) a statement of policy relate to Human Rights — ( a ) be a public authority ' s policy criterion relate to disinvestment in case concern contravention of human right ; and ( b ) must be apply consistently by the public authority to all foreign country . ( 4C ) within 60 day of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish , and lie before Parliament , guidance on the form , content and application of statement for the purpose of this section ( 4d ) public authority must have regard to the guidance reference in subsection ( 4C ) when devise a statement . " this amendment would exempt public body from the prohibition in section 1 , where the decision have be make in accordance with a statement of Policy relate to Human Rights . a statement may not single out individual nation , but would have to be apply consistently , and in accordance with guidance publish by the Secretary of State . amendment 7 , page 3 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . this amendment would remove the prohibition on the Government specify Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories or the Occupied Golan Heights as a country or territory to which the prohibition on boycotts do not apply , mean they be treat just as all other country and territory . amendment 21 , page 3 , line 11 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . this amendment would remove the exist stipulation that the power to exempt a country or territory from section 1 may not be use in respect of the Occupied Palestinian Territories or the Occupied Golan Heights . amendment 2 , page 3 , line 13 , leave out clause 4 . amendment 3 , in clause 4 , page 3 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment would remove the prohibition on a person publish a statement indicate that they would have act in a way prohibit by clause 1 if it be legal to do so . amendment 16 , page 3 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) this section do not apply to — ( a ) a local authority , ( b ) an elect mayor of a local authority ( c ) a mayor for the area of a combine authority , ( d ) the Mayor of London , ( e ) the London Assembly ( f ) the Scottish Parliament , or ( g ) Senedd Cymru . " this amendment would exempt elect body from the prohibition on make public statement indicate that they intend to , or would intend to if it be lawful , act in a way that would contravene section 1 . amendment 28 , page 3 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) nothing in this section require any act or omission that conflict with the right and freedom guarantee under the Human Rights Act 1998 . " this amendment would ensure that any act or omission under the " gagging clause " in clause 4 would not conflict with the Human Rights Act 1998 ( HRA ) , in particular , Article 10 ( right to freedom of expression ) and article 9 ( freedom of thought , conscience and religion ) of the echr as incorporate by the HRA . amendment 29 , in clause 7 , page 5 , line 8 , leave out " , or be about to make " . this amendment , together with Amendments 30 to 33 , would remove the ability of information notice and compliance notice to be give to public body prior to an actual contravention of the ban . amendment 30 , page 5 , line 12 , leave out " , or be likely to contravene " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 29 . amendment 31 , page 5 , line 15 , leave out " , or be about to publish , " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 29 . amendment 32 , page 5 , line 18 , leave out " , or be likely to contravene , " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 29 . amendment 38 , page 5 , line 39 , leave out from " legislation " to the end of line 41 . this amendment be to probe the way the legislation appear to " qualify " the data protection legislation . amendment 33 , in clause 8 , page 6 , line 6 , leave out " , or be likely to contravene " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 29 . amendment 4 , in clause 12 , page 8 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but section 1 do not apply in relation to a fund investment decision make by such a manager if the decision have be approve by a majority of those vote in a ballot of the member of the fund ; and section 4 do not apply to any statement — ( a ) make for the purpose of prepare for or explain the purpose of such a ballot ; ( b ) concern a decision which have be approve by such a ballot . " this amendment would allow a local government pension fund to act in a way prohibit by clause 1 if the decision to do so be approve by a majority of scheme member , and would prevent statement about or follow such a ballot be prohibit by clause 4 . amendment 19 , in clause 17 , page 10 , line 38 , leave out " Scotland " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 18 . amendment 20 , page 11 , line 19 , leave out " Scotland " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 18 . amendment 5 , in the schedule , page 12 , line 21 , at end insert — " 3A Section 1 do not apply to — ( a ) a register high education provider in England , as define by section 3 ( 10 ) of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 ; ( b ) an institution within the high education sector in Wales , as define by section 91 of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 ; ( c ) an institution within the high education sector in Scotland , as define by section 56 of the Further and Higher Education ( Scotland ) Act 1992 ; ( d ) a high education institution in Northern Ireland , as define by article 30 of the Education and Libraries ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1993 . " this amendment would remove university and other high education provider from the requirement to act in accordance with clause 1 . amendment 6 , page 13 , line 5 , at end insert — " 6A Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as it relate to conduct which it be the position of his Majesty ' s Government represent a breach of international law . " this amendment would permit decision which would otherwise be in breach of clause 1 if they be take in response to conduct which the Government consider to be a breach of international law . amendment 17 , page 13 , line 5 , at end insert — " 6A Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as the purpose of the decision be to prevent violation of international law include the deliberate targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure , the imposition of collective punishment on civilian population , force transfer of civilian , and other act which may constitute war crime . " amendment 22 , page 13 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as the decision - maker reasonably consider it relevant to whether the decision ( or anything do far to it ) would give financial , economic , or other reward to a party that have engage in breach international law , where that breach of international law be directly relate to the decision . " amendment 8 , page 15 , line 22 , at end insert " , environmental protection , environmental target , environmental treaty or environmental law ( as define by the Environment Act 2021 ) . " this amendment would expand the environmental ground on which a public body be allow to make certain economic decision . amendment 9 , page 15 , line 26 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) reduce the level of environmental protection , include in a country or territory other than the United Kingdom , or ( b ) cause , or have the potential to cause , harm to the natural environment , include the life and health of — ( i ) plant , wild animal and other living organism , ( ii ) their habitat , or ( iii ) land ( except building or other structure ) , air and water , and the natural system , cycle and process through which they interact . " this amendment extend the definition of environment misconduct to include damage regardless of whether it be legal or illegal , and to include specie , habitat and the natural world . amendment 10 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert " and the welfare of animal " this amendment would add conduct causing , or have the potential to cause , significant harm to the welfare of animal to the type of conduct which constitute environmental misconduct and to which regard may therefore be have without contravene section 1 . amendment 11 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the conduct reference in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) include conduct which amount to — ( a ) an offence under section 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 or 13 of the Animal Welfare Act 2006 , and ( b ) an infringement or contravention of any of the requirement or prohibition in Schedule 1 of the Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing Regulations 2015 . " this amendment would clarify the meaning of " welfare of animal " for the purpose of Amendment 10 . amendment 15 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert — " 11 Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as it relate to the use of fossil fuel . " this amendment would allow for a public body to consider the use of fossil fuel when take certain economic decision . amendment 23 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert — " 11 Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as the decision - maker reasonably consider it relevant to whether the decision ( or anything do far to it ) would give financial , economic , or other reward to a party that have engage in the crime of genocide as determine under international law , where that crime of genocide be directly relate to the decision . " Amendment 24 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert — " 11 Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as the decision - maker reasonably consider it relevant to whether the decision ( or anything do far to it ) would give financial , economic , or other reward to a party that have engage in the crime of ethnic cleansing as determine under international law , where that ethnic cleansing be directly relate to the decision . " Amendment 25 , page 15 , line 29 , at end insert — " 11 Section 1 do not prevent regard to a consideration so far as the decision - maker reasonably consider it relevant to whether the decision ( or anything do far to it ) would give financial , economic , or other reward to a party that have engage in the crime of apartheid as determine under international law , where that crime of apartheid be directly relate to the decision . " I call Anum Qaisar . rise — I beg the hon . member ' s pardon — Chris Stephens . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . I forgive you for that after your excellent address to the all - party parliamentary group on Cyprus last night ; it be an excellent event . I rise to speak to the amendment in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Ms Qaisar ) . I indicate now that I will be look to divide the House on amendment 28 , to which I will confine most of my remark . however , many in this House be deeply disappointed at what the Government be do in proceed with this Bill . as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) say on Monday , " now be not the time . " — [ Official Report , 23 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 611 . ] let I say at the outset that we all condemn the killing of innocent civilian . we do condemn Hamas and their act of terror on 7 October , and Hamas must release all hostage . we must equally recognise that there be a humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and it be legitimate to question the action of the israeli Government . it be perfectly legitimate to call for a ceasefire to address that crisis and let humanitarian aid flow in to save the life of innocent palestinian people . there be vastly more people around these island who be perplex by the Government ' s play party political game when the middle east be in crisis and the rest of the world fear the start of an even broad conflict . this be not the time to seek electoral advantage through trip up political opponent during semantic exchange , exploit small difference in language to pretend there be a vast gulf between position , or sell that to the electorate as " one party good , all other party bad . " I commend the hon . gentleman on the way he be make his comment . do he agree that it be positively dangerous to do what this government be do when we see the huge rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia ? just now , our community need we in Parliament to be show a lead and to be unite on this , and not to do something that be so divisive and so deliberately provocative and deeply damaging to the unity of our community . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , and I hope that those on the Government Benches listen to she . many of we have that real fear . this be not the occasion to push forward this legislation . polarisation be a game that have long be play by the Government , but this be not a game ; this be real life , or the loss of it , and such cynicism have no place here . in Israel and Palestine , we have two people who feel that they be under existential threat from the other . almost everyone understand that , and we have all be try to find solution that will bring peace to that region . ringfence the interest of one group by diminish the right of the other can never yield a long - term solution to the entrenched problem in the middle east ; it simply exacerbate the tension between the two . the very real fear , which the hon . Member have just express , be that it force people into one camp or the other , it feed hatred and it fuel the evil that be antisemitism . it be not too late to withdraw the Bill . if the Government be determined to proceed with it , I hope they listen to the advice from both side of the House , in particular from Government Back Benchers , and amend the clause that will otherwise far inflame the division that the Government claim they be try to heal . as with most conflict , verbal and military , there tend to be collateral damage that have either not be fully anticipate or where the perpetrator simply do not care about the consequence . in their assumed aim of defend the right of Israel , the Government be attack the right of many sector of our own society , range from the legislative and judicial right of the devolve Parliaments to the democratic right of elect local authority , and cut a swathe through the individual human right of all people across these island . in its long title , the Bill be describe as : " a Bill to make provision to prevent public body from be influence by political or moral disapproval of foreign state when take certain economic decision " . it would appear that public body be not fit to make political or moral judgment and , as we will see later , individual be not fit to make such judgment either . as I say in an early debate , the electorate will not miss the irony of a Tory Government present themselves as the sole moral arbiter for the whole of these island . the pretext for introduce this legislation be an assumed need to respond robustly to the boycott , divestment and sanction movement — or BDS — which advocate a complete boycott of Israel and israeli people and which suggest that the state of Israel do not even have the right to exist . the Government ignore the fact that , in line with other government in Europe and the EU itself , the Scottish Government and the SNP unequivocally condemn and distance themselves from member or affiliate within the BDS movement . rather than wish the state of Israel to cease to exist , most democratic country be strong supporter of a two - state solution , with the Government reassert that position to the House early this year , and President Biden reaffirming support only last week . we as a House be generally unite in support a two - state solution , and to imply otherwise be a red herring and a dangerous distraction to mature debate . More than 40 israeli non - governmental organisation have call for this Bill to be reject , as have the Union of jewish Students and Yachad , with the latter say that " we be unequivocal about the need to protect the right to express difference of opinion , even if they be opinion that we fiercely disagree with " . let we listen to they . on the broad issue of human right at home , let we listen to some other organisation . Amnesty International assert that the Bill " would make it almost impossible for public body to use their procurement and investment policy to incentivise ethical business conduct that be human right compliant . " but we know that already . Amnesty go on to say : " company depend on public contract will feel more confident that their global impact on human right and the environment will be irrelevant to their success in tendering process . " I see this Bill as a clear incitement to such company to lessen their commitment to human right and the environment , as they will no long need they to gain public contract . company that respect human right face be undercut by those that knowingly breach international standard with little fear of consequence . what a horrible race to the bottom . there be a niggle problem here for the Government regard human right . there be a global consensus on the human right standard applicable to company . the United Nations guide principle on business and human right be unanimously endorse by the UN Human Rights Council , the European Union , the Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development and the International Standards Organisation . the UK be the first country to develop a national action plan to implement those guide principle , and now we appear to be the first country to renege on those commitment . the UK be in danger of be a rogue state in this field , go against the tide of international opinion , which consider that public body should use procurement and investment policy to incentivise business to be ethical and human right compliant . I would argue that be in the public interest . let we consider an example from Amnesty , whereby an NHS body might choose to avoid source medical equipment from certain supplier , such as Malaysia , Thailand , Pakistan or Mexico , say that they have be implicate in modern slavery . those overseas supply company could take legal action under this legislation on the ground that the decision maker be influence by " political or moral disapproval of foreign state conduct " , and the court would then have to determine whether the exemption in the Bill for labour - relate misconduct apply in that particular case . let we imagine that a public body in Scotland decide to stop source beef from a brazilian meat distribution company whose product have be link to deforestation of the Amazon . if the propose law have be in place during the previous Brazil presidency , when exploitation of the Amazon be be actively encourage , the brazilian Government or the company whose product be be exclude could have challenge the decision in the High Court on the ground that it be influence by " political or moral disapproval of foreign state conduct " . since it be unclear whether the environmental misconduct exemption refer to in part 2 of the schedule to the Bill would prevail , the risk attach would have be likely to deter any public body from take such a decision on environmental ground . they would have be compel to be complicit in deforestation . Liberty and other group have point out that the Bill give the enforcement authority the power to issue a notice to a public authority request an assessment of whether there have , or may be , a breach of the ban or the prohibition on make statement . the Bill give the enforcement authority the power to impose a compliance notice where they consider a person be likely to contravene the ban — not " have contravene " , but " be likely to contravene " . we be in the realm of Orwell ' s think police or Philip K . Dick ' s " the Minority Report " , with precog catch criminal before they have even commit the crime . the normal police come for someone if they commit a criminal act , but the thought police be different ; they act if someone intend to act in some particular way . under the Bill , the authority do not need to demonstrate any proof of intent to publish a particular kind of statement . that be impossible to do in the normal world , so let we just rely on telepathy for find out someone ' s intent . clause 4 of the Bill would prohibit public body and their leader — such as university vice - chancellor , local council leader , or even the chief executive of a private company deliver public service — from publish public statement indicate that they intend to act in a way that would contravene the ban , or that they would , in theory , intend to act that way if not for the ban . a local council could no long publish statement such as , " our local council would have boycott these good from this state - own enterprise due to the state ' s conduct in relation to this territory , but the law do not permit this , and we intend to comply with the law . " I never expect to say these word , as someone who subscribe to socialist theory , but : we must remove clause 4 . I say that just on this occasion . I notice that an amendment to that effect have be table . Liberty have also point out that in other jurisdiction , anti - boycott law have have a severe impact on freedom of expression . in one case in the US , a speech pathologist in Texas lose her school contract because she decline to sign an agreement promise not to boycott Israel on the basis of a similar anti - boycott law . in another , a dermatologist be withhold payment for a lecture for fail to agree not to boycott Israel . US campaigner have far warn that anti - boycott legislation , once enact , be liable to be extend to a plethora of issue — from fossil fuel to gun control . I fear we be look at another damaging cultural import from the United States of America . follow the early scottish example , let we look more broadly at the consequence of the Bill for Scotland and the UK ' s other devolve government . COP26 be hold in Glasgow , and there have now be a watering down of the Government ' s climate commitment , but Scotland remain committed to combat climate change . in fact , the government of Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales be all attempt to use the leverage of public procurement to incentivise company to behave sustainably with regard to human right , fairness , labour right and the environment . those policy will clearly be undermine by the Bill , despite investment and procurement be devolve to all three Parliaments . I have hear the Secretary of State say several time that the Conservatives be in favour of devolution , so should they not be require to seek consent from the Governments of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland before they proceed ? my hon . friend be correct that they should . I suspect they will not receive it from either the Scottish Parliament or the Welsh Senedd , for many reason . as he say , there be clearly an impact on devolution . devolution be approve overwhelmingly by the people of Scotland , and any erosion of it be strongly oppose by most , but not all , party in that Parliament . I will let member guess which party be least protective of Scotland ' s interest . Scotland ' s current legislative power be guard jealously , and there be strong demand for many — possibly all — reserve power to be transfer to scottish control . that be not surprising . I and other will continue to explore the Bill ' s deficiency again today , point out its many contradiction . I compliment the hon . gentleman on his excellent speech . he have give very good democratic , social and moral reason for why the Bill be in deep defect . do he not think a well process would be for the Secretary of State now to withdraw the Bill altogether ? that would be very helpful indeed . the right hon . Gentleman be right . those of we who have table amendment be try to clean up a dog ' s breakfast , which be very difficult . we be all try to make the Bill a little well but , as my good friend say , the ultimate solution would be to withdraw it entirely . I have highlight the Bill ' s contradiction , counter - productiveness and profound consequence , and I will be seek to divide the House on amendment 28 . I look forward to hear other member pursue their amendment . I would like to speak against all the amendment and new clause before we today and in support of the Bill as currently draft . we need this Bill . I thank the Government for include it in the conservative manifesto and take it forward , and I urge the whole House to back the Bill and reject the amendment . this , of all time , be a time to stand with the jewish community , follow the bad attack on jewish people since the holocaust . BDS have be identify in a succession of study as drive a rise in antisemitism . by single out the world ' s only jewish state for criticism , above and beyond that direct at any other country in similar circumstance , I believe BDS campaign fall within the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism . the french supreme court have rule that BDS be discriminatory , and the german Parliament view the movement as antisemitic . since the shocking Hamas terror attack , we have witness deeply disturbing scene on our tv screen and in our street . these include sicken so - call celebration of the horrific murder in southern Israel , and the anti - jewish racism and hatred visible at successive protest on the street of our capital city . at a time like this , when jewish people be in fear for their friend and relative in Israel , it be appal to compound their anxiety and distress with hate - fill banner and chant at such protest . I find it deeply depress that " Jihad ! Jihad ! " have be shout with impunity on the street of our city , and that isis flag have be on blatant display . the dramatic rise in antisemitic incident be wholly unacceptable , and it show we that we need campaign to bring community together , not drive they apart . there can be no doubt that BDS be absolutely focused on division , not unity . the BDS movement deplore co - existence and peacebuilde initiative . for example , it have condemn co - operation between israeli and palestinian university . the movement ' s founder , Omar Barghouti , have repeatedly express his opposition to Israel ' s right to exist . as we go into the vote Lobbies this evening , we be in a situation where the question to be ask of all of we be : " which side be you on ? " . I make it clear that I strongly support the right of Israel to defend its land and its citizen from terrorist attack . of course , we all worry about the plight of innocent Gazans put in harm ' s way by Hamas , who brutalise they and deliberately use they as human shield . of course , we need to get supply to civilian , so long as there be confidence that they can not be divert or misuse by terrorist . we must always remember that it be Hamas who have endanger the people of Gaza . Hamas be the people who have cause the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . I be in no doubt that the israeli Defence Forces be make , and will continue to make , the great effort possible to prevent civilian loss of life . Israel be one of the most democratic country in the world , and it respect the rule of law . I be certain that its democratic and legal institution will hold its armed force rigorously to account . those on the Labour Benches who line up to casually , and wrongly , accuse Israel of war crime should check their fact , not rush to judgment . we need our local authority to concentrate on deliver service , not on conduct their own trade and foreign policy . we need campaign that promote peaceful progress towards a two - state solution , not bitterness and exclusion . we need to take all possible action against the antisemitism that we have see increase so shockingly in recent day . we need this Bill . I call the shadow Secretary of State . follow the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , let I say this : " when thing be so delicate , we all have a responsibility to take additional care in the language we use , and to operate on the basis of fact alone . " — [ Official Report , 23 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 592 . ] those be the word of the Prime Minister in his statement to the House on Monday . he also say that " this be not a time for hyperbole and simplistic solution . " he be absolutely right about the importance of tone in today ' s debate , as we discuss the 7 October attack and event in the middle east . what we say and how we behave in this Chamber really matter , because it echo out across the country . it go without say that the disgusting rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia since the attack on 7 October only make that point more profound . I fear that the Prime Minister ' s powerful statement at the Dispatch Box early this week have be undermine by how he and his Ministers have bring this Bill before we today , at the last minute and with the least possible notice . the tension and disagreement surround the issue be well known to the Secretary of State yet , in the middle of a humanitarian emergency in the middle east , he have choose this week of all week to force this legislation on to the parliamentary timetable — a Bill that fail the Prime Minister ' s own test of avoid simplistic solution . there can be no doubt that Labour be oppose to a policy of adopt boycott , divestment and sanction against Israel , as it wrongly single out one individual nation and be counterproductive to the prospect of peace . we know this be a serious issue . the right hon . Lady say with some force at the Dispatch Box that Labour be clearly oppose to single out Israel through BDS measure , yet where Labour be in government in the UK — Wales — the Welsh Labour Government seek to bring forward a procurement note that single out Israel and the palestinian territory . can she explain what her position be when her colleague in Wales seek to do that ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . we be hope to get consensus around what we be try to do . I stand by my statement , but we do not want one nation to be single out in this boycott . we do not agree with boycott tactic , which be why we be concerned enough to table our amendment to the Procurement Bill back in February , when I shadow the Cabinet Office , which would have prevent council from single out Israel or any other country . the Government have consistently oppose that amendment . today , we be present with a Bill that will not address the problem it rightly seek to solve . as it stand , the Bill have needlessly broad and sweeping draconian power and far - reach effect . it be poorly draft legislation that risk create fresh legal dispute , and will only serve as new flashpoint for community tension . we remain far from convinced that protract legal battle over the BDS would serve or protect jewish community in the UK . my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) clearly spell out those issue on Second Reading , as do my hon . friend the Members for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) and for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) in Committee . today be the fourth time that we have present the Government with a chance to change course and choose a more constructive way forward , yet the Bill have be bring back nearly totally unamended — the only change be to the explanatory note . it be all too clear that the Secretary of State have not listen . however , there be a way forward . in our view , it be not wrong for public body to take ethical investment and procurement decision . there be a difference between apply consistent ethical principle in legitimate criticism of foreign government and what , in recent year , some individual and organisation have try to do : seek to target Israel alone ; hold it to different standard from other country ; question its right to exist ; and equate the action of the israeli Government to jewish people and in do so , create hate and hostility against jewish people here in the UK . that be completely wrong . amendment 13 , on which we will seek a vote today , address that problem . it would allow public body to produce a document set out their policy on procurement and human right . the policy would be cement in a framework , base on principle that apply equally to all country , rather than single out individual nation . such a statement of ethical policy would ensure consistency in how public body decide on these matter , and would be subject to guidance issue by elect Ministers and lay before this House . any inconsistent application would be prohibit . under Labour ' s proposal , if a public body be to act only against a particular state — for instance , the world ' s only jewish state — and fail to comply a consistent approach to human right everywhere , such action would be unlawful . we be disappoint that the Government choose not to support our amendment at previous stage , but I repeat today our offer to the Government — indeed , the whole House — to work together and speak with one voice on this most serious of issue , by accept the amendment . move on , there be four more concern area in the Bill that I wish to raise briefly with the Secretary of State . first , we have serious reservation about how the Bill effectively rewrite UK foreign policy by explicitly equate Israel with the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights . that be an unprecedented step that , to my knowledge , have never be take in british statute and be unique in british legislation . an essential cornerstone of british policy , support across this House — and at the UN — be support for a two - state solution as a viable long - term solution to give Israelis and Palestinians the recognition and security that they deserve . the wording of the Bill not only call into question the UK ' s long - stand position in support a two - state solution but run counter to the UN resolution . such a move would also go against the very aim of the Bill by single out Israel in such an exceptional manner , fail to treat it like any other country or nation . secondly , and relate , the Secretary of State claim that the Bill be non - country - specific and of general application , but the only state and territory name in the Bill be Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights . quite apart from single out Israel , the Bill apply as much to China , Myanmar and North Korea as it do to Israel . for example , it could have significant effect on the ability of community to support the uyghur minority in China , who be victim of grave human right abuse . as my right hon . friend know , I be a former local authority leader in Trafford . I be incredibly proud that , when I be the leader of Trafford Council , my Labour administration take step to cease procurement link to the Xinjiang region because of the oppression and suppression of Uyghur Muslims . be I correct to interpret the Bill as seem to suggest that my Labour administration and I be incorrect to do that , and that other up and down the country who speak up for human right and against that sort behaviour be in the wrong ? my hon . friend make a very important point , which be why we be try to gain consensus across the House through our amendment . it be important that people should be able to raise concern appropriately and in the good way . the Bill do not allow that . even the Foreign Secretary ' s office warn no . 10 about the impact of the Bill on our foreign commitment . for that reason , we welcome amendment 7 in the name of the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , which have support across the House — include from member from the Liberal Democrat and SNP Benches . we think it will go some way to address the problem . thirdly , I want to re - emphasise the concern raise by member from all major party about clause 4 — the so - call gag clause . I acknowledge the change make to the explanatory note in this area , but this unprecedented restriction could have far - reach consequence for our democracy , and I urge the Secretary of State to think again . I have table amendment 16 , which would address the issue of elect body . it be a mark of the concern across the House that there be so many amendment to the clause , include from member from the Government and the SNP Benches . the seriousness of the clause must not be underestimate . it be an unprecedented restriction on the ability of the public body — many of they directly elect — to express a view on policy , effectively gag they from even talk about it . we be concerned that clause 4 would be incompatible with article 10 of the european convention on human right , which protect freedom of expression . labour ' s amendment 14 seek to remove the most sweeping provision in the Bill through which the Secretary of State intend to hand himself unprecedented power to change the scope and application of the Bill through regulation . lastly , it be important to note that the Bill in its current form will not set out what it seek to achieve . there be loophole that will allow discriminatory act to continue unchallenged . our new clause 3 present just one example , and I be sure that there be many more . the new clause require the Government to review the impact of the Bill on discrimination , and address one form of it that have be raise with I — refusal to provide kosher food . we on the Labour Benches know that that impact on many british Jews across this country , cause much distress and suffering . that be the type of concern practice that should be tackle , but the Bill in its current form will not address it . I urge the Secretary of State to take a pause , take a step back , and consider that there might be another way through . I assure the Secretary of State that Labour feel strongly that BDS practice against Israel offer no meaningful route to peace for the people of either Palestine or of Israel . as my hon . friend the Member for Wigan say on Second Reading , " we on the Labour Benches do not claim that all those who support BDS , despite our profound disagreement with they on that issue , be antisemitic . " — [ Official Report , 3 July 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 527 . ] but let we be clear : the effect of BDS would be the total economic , social and cultural isolation of the world ' s only jewish state , and there be those who use the campaign to whip up hostility towards jewish people , provide no route to peace and a two - state solution . I can assure the Secretary of State that Labour will continue to condemn and oppose that in the strong term . I do not believe there be genuine disagreement between we on that point . but let I be totally clear , too , both as a shadow Minister and as deputy leader of the Labour party : now more than ever we expect council to bring all their community together and represent all their citizen . it would be utterly wrong to choose one community over another — or bad , pit one against another . I agree 100 % with the right hon . Lady that we must be moderate in our tone and the language we use . do she agree it be therefore very unhelpful for the scottish Labour leader to use term accuse Israel of breach international law when we be discuss such a sensitive subject ? as I say at the start of the debate , people have to be responsible — and , in fairness , I acknowledge that the Prime Minister at the start of this week also outline that people have to be responsible . I say that across the whole House and genuinely mean it : we all have to be responsible . I know people feel very strongly at the moment about these issue , and rightly so , and I hope the hon . Gentleman see from my contribution to this debate that I be take that very seriously as well . we rightly expect that our local government must surely stay by the principle I mention , but we must also make sure that our national Government do too . that be real leadership — of our community , and of our whole country . instead , I fear we have a Government unwilling to recognise what be need from they at this moment on this Bill : careful , precise deliberation and to bring community and the country with we . I be disappointed that the Secretary of State have take the reckless path of force the Bill back to Parliament today — a Bill that fail on its own term . his approach risk divide our country , our community and even his party . I urge he now not to divide the House and to accept the amendment propose by member on the Opposition side and his own . for our part , Labour stand ready — as we have at every single stage of the Bill — to work constructively with the Government and other party to build consensus behind a workable , sensible solution . there be no doubt that the people of our country want we to speak with one voice . labour stand ready and willing to work in good faith to achieve that goal . the question be , be the Government ? the Prime Minister be absolutely right early this week to say that the tone we adopt be incredibly important give the gravity of the event we be see in the middle east at the moment . every single Member of this House be obviously absolutely horrify by the tragedy that be unfold and the barbaric atrocity commit by Hamas . in my case , I absolutely support the right of Israel to self - defence , but it be possible to believe all these thing — to be a friend of Israel , too — but nevertheless to be reluctant to pass bad legislation through this House unamende when we have the opportunity to make amendment on Report . it be possible , too , to believe strongly that freedom of contract and freedom of speech be important pillar in our liberal democracy , and that although we might sometimes fetter those key pillar of freedom and our liberal democracy , we should not do so lightly . for that reason , I would support amendment 7 and 3 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , because put the occupy territory and Israel into the Bill be unusual for a Bill of this sort . we must ask this question : if the purpose be to make it difficult for a future government to take a position that would change the approach to our close ally , why be the United States not also list ? many of the group that people object to , such as BDS , be often quite anti - american as well , so why do we not have a full list of country to make it difficult for they to add ? more importantly , this send an unfortunate signal around british foreign policy . it have be the long - stand position of all british government that we support a two - state solution and that the israeli settlement in the occupied territory be illegal . that be a consistent british Government position over a long period of time , and we must be careful not to send signal that that have change . more importantly , I would also support amendment 3 , because clause 4 be a strong violation of freedom of speech . it have come to something when we be say that not only would people not be free to follow the procurement policy they want , but they would not even be allow to say that the reason why they be not free to do so be this Bill . I will support amendment 7 or 3 if either go to a vote this evening . however , I want to focus principally on the two amendment in my name — amendment 10 and 11 . although much of the debate around the Bill be understandably conduct through the context of BDS and of Israel and the palestinian situation , the scope of clause 1 be very broad . what be before we this evening be a broad procurement Bill that place quite broad restriction on procurement and apply to every country in the world . I presume the reason be that the Government ' s legal advice be that to have something that focus just on one country , Israel , or on just one campaign group , BDS , would create some legal issue . so they then have to construct a Bill that affect every organisation , every issue and every country , and then through the schedule try to piece back some of the liberty affect by the imposition of clause 1 . I want to focus on that schedule , because it list lot of different issue that be outside the scope of clause 1 , and rightly so , include " environmental misconduct " , but there be no mention of animal welfare . there will be time when public body will take a procurement decision base on animal welfare . they need to be free to do that , and it be not at all clear from the schedule that that could be do . paragraph 10 mention " environmental misconduct " and at the end talk about " the life and health of plant and animal " , but it do so very much in the context of the environment and the wild environment rather than through the context of keep animal . the Government buying standard be recently revise to encourage all public body and all Government Departments to take account of animal welfare in their procurement policy , but the Bill would appear to curtail the right of local authority to do just that . legitimate issue will come into play here . these be probe amendment on which I be look for reassurance from the Minister and an undertaking to consider these matter far in the other place . for instance , be a local authority to judge that it would prefer to procure lamb from New Zealand over , say , Australia , because New Zealand have high animal welfare standard while the australian sheep industry have poor level of animal welfare and do not have in place the right regulatory power to deal with certain practice , that would be a legitimate consideration . indeed , it be not only legitimate but a consideration that the Government ' s own buying standard and the Crown Commercial Service encourage all public body to pursue . in closing , my question , which be very much link to my two amendment , be this : be the Minister ' s understanding that it would be entirely in order under the Bill for any local authority or public body to make decision base on animal welfare , and that any such decision relate to animal welfare would be totally outside the scope of clause 1 ? this be a dreadful piece of legislation when we debate it on Second Reading , and it return to we on Report in an equally dreadful state . in July , on Second Reading , I say that the Bill be be introduce at the wrong time , give the violence and unrest take place in the region . never in my bad nightmare do I think that we would experience the brutal , inhumane and indiscriminate massacre that be unleash on innocent israeli civilian on 7 October , and the subsequent humanitarian catastrophe that we be now witness in Gaza . to bring this wrong - headed , poorly draft and politically motivated Bill back to the House in the midst of these horror — horror that we be see every hour of the day and every hour of the night , on our television screen and on social medium — be an act of complete irresponsibility and unbelievable foolishness . I speak as a proud Jew ; I speak as a strong supporter of Israel , a committed zionist ; and I speak as someone who oppose the BDS movement and believe that its intent be to try to destroy the state of Israel . but I do not speak on my own ; I know that I speak in the name of thousand of Jews in Britain , who be not always represent in this House — particularly by some jewish Members in the House — and for million of Jews in Israel . I simply ask the Minister — and the Secretary of State , who be now in his place — to please withdraw this nasty Bill and come back in the autumn with a properly consider proposal that can be accept by we all . this be an emotional time to we all — it be for I — but I urge Ministers : we should all be work together at this time . every MP in this House should be work to calm thing down in the middle east , to contain conflict , to secure the release of hostage and to stop the humanitarian catastrophe we be see in Gaza . we should not be seek to divide member now . I put it to Ministers that the Bill contain proposal that will only heighten tension between community . work by the Community Security Trust show we that there have be a 651 % increase in antisemitic attack from 7 to 20 October . my own family and my own grandchild have be subject to such attack , and I know what difficulty this bring to many , many family in this country . the Bill will only deepen the hostility . it will not help our community ; it will only strengthen the polarisation that be already so evident . we see it in our school , in our university and in our workplace . the Bill will not help Israel as it seek to defend itself against an existential threat . it will simply become just one more thing to enrage those people who oppose the state of Israel . it will not help Jews at all as we struggle to come to term with the pogrom that take place in the kibbutzim and the music festival some two week ago . it will not help we as we all struggle to find a route to peace that allow Israel to defend itself without inflict intolerable hardship on Palestinians , who have also become the victim of Hamas ' s terrorist activity . I plead with the Government to withdraw this legislation and to help we to work together . I appreciate the remark that the right hon . Lady be make — she speak with some authority because of her background — but I fail to see the logic of her point that a Bill that prevent local authority deliberately highlight their opposition to the existence of the state of Israel , and boycott good from it , be likely to lead to bad community relation . surely stop local authority act in such a partisan way will help to establish well community relation . I beg to differ with what the right hon . Gentleman say , because the Bill in itself be so contentious that it will not actually stop activity , but encourage those who want to argue against the state of Israel and want to argue against what be currently happen in the israeli - palestinian war . it will give they add strength , so I simply disagree with he . at a time like this , the bad thing we can do be introduce contentious legislation . I respect the right hon . Lady for her view , but just on that last point , the idea that we should not do something because the people who hate Israel will be even angry about it do not seem to I to be a very credible argument . these people be out in front of the embassy in the immediate aftermath of the attack demand boycott of Israel , before Israel even have time to respond . be it really a credible argument that we should not do this because it might make the people who hate Israel even angry ? I hope that as I develop my argument the hon . Member will listen , because it be the flaw in the Bill that I think actually damage its intention , which be to limit and deal with the evil of the BDS movement . I say a little early that I oppose the BDS movement . I recognise that the BDS movement probably have the intention of try to destroy the state of Israel . I want to tackle that , but I think that do so in the way that be propose in this legislation will simply damage that intent , not meet it . I think maybe that be where he and I differ . the Bill be flawed in so many way . the main reason be that it be not design to tackle a problem ; it be design to score a crude party political point , as I say on Second Reading . I be afraid that the Secretary of State himself give the game away on that occasion , when he say : " the question for every Member of this House be whether they stand with we against antisemitism or not . " — [ Official Report , 3 July 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 591 . ] I respectfully say to he that that be not the question , but it do lay bare the truth about the Bill . the Government believe that they have set a trap for the opposition : if we speak against the Bill , they will try to paint we as antisemite . but I say to the Government that if they pass the Bill in its current form , it be they who will be encourage antisemitism by fuel hatred . they will be encourage antisemitism by specify on the face of the Bill only one country where the boycott of good would be illegal , simply confirm in people ' s mind that Israel and the Israel - Palestine conflict be a special case , different from all the other case around . that be a constant problem , a constant issue that be raise with I by people who be worried and concerned — over time , not particularly in relation to the war as it stand — about attitude in the UK to the israeli - palestinian conflict . everybody say , " why pick on Israel ? " so why do the Government now select Israel ? it be they who be encourage antisemitism by gag free speech in our university and council chamber . it be they who be encourage antisemitism by trample on the democratic right of local politician . it be an incredible arrogance for we as mps to sit here and think that somehow we be well than , or different from , locally elect councillor who also have political view and who also carry out important democratic job in their council . it be the Government who be encourage antisemitism by ignore our obligation under the UN Security Council . it be they who be encourage antisemitism — and I say this on the basis of my experience of fight the British National party in Barking from 2006 until the general election in 2010 — by refuse to engage in an open debate . by close the debate , they give add credibility to the idea that those who seek to destroy the state of Israel be somehow wrong . as the right hon . Lady know , I have a huge amount of respect for she , and she speak on these issue with an authority with which many of we can not speak about they . she know well than anyone that a tide of vile antisemitism have be unleash in the country . last week , some of we hear from jewish student who be afraid to give their surname because they be afraid of give away their jewish identity — afraid to admit that they be jewish . one say that they feel as if Jews be be push out of british university . if July be not a good time to introduce legislation to draw a line in the sand , and if now be an even bad time , when be a good time to make a stand on behalf of jewish people who be at risk at this time ? let I start by say that the growth of antisemitism on the street and in our community be absolutely terrible . it be affect some of the young people in my own family , and it be dreadful to observe the impact that it have on young child . so I be completely with the right hon . gentleman on that . my point be that the legislation be so flawed that it do not meet its intent . I would love to work with Ministers , and with member across the House , to produce a piece of legislation that would tackle the issue that we know exist in relation to BDS , but would do so in a way that be not contentious . it do not have to be like this ; we could do it in another way , and do that as soon possible would be a really good thing to do . surely this be the point that my right hon . friend be make . surely the answer to the question ask by the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) be that a good time would be a time when those of good will have have a sufficient opportunity to engage in the necessary discussion to find a consensus that would lead to an acceptable and sensible piece of legislation . my hon . friend make a very valid point , and I be grateful to he for his intervention . I do feel really emotional about today . it be , I think , an emotional day for many of we in the Chamber . let I just say this to the Secretary of State . he be try to put forward legislation in the name of the jewish community , but he be not do so in my name , or in the name of literally thousand of people I talk to here in the UK who be all good Jews , proud of their jewish identity . I also know from my conversation with family , friend and colleague in Israel that there be many there who also think that this be a poor piece of legislation . I plead with the Secretary of State please , please to withdraw the Bill , which I think would be more damaging than helpful , and to engage in the sort of debate that have be suggest by my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , which could bring we to a mutually agree conclusion , reach the objective that we all want . rise — order . may I provide a little guidance ? if member speak for a maximum of about eight minute , we will be able to get everyone in . I support this excellent Bill and wish to speak against all the amendment . I commend my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for take the Bill through the House . I support it for three principal reason : first , it be genuinely need ; secondly , boycott be inherently discriminatory and contrary to public policy , especially when engage in by third - tier local authority ; and thirdly , the BDS movement internationally be inextricably link to antisemitism . I will explore those three point briefly . perhaps I can give the House just two example of why the Bill be need . the first be the example of the now bankrupt Birmingham City Council , which threaten in 2014 not to renew a contract with the french multinational company Veolia due to its operation in the west bank . in 2015 , Veolia withdraw from the israeli market as a consequence and the BDS movement claim that decision as a victory . of course , that hurt Palestinians as well as everyone else . another example , shamefully , be that of the supermarket Sainsbury ' s . in at least one of its branch , it be put under so much pressure that it remove kosher food product from its shelf follow virulent anti - Israel protest . so this be about protect community and avoid antisemitism succeed . the Bill will prevent divisive behaviour that undermine community cohesion across the country . I be afraid to say that BDS activity have legitimise and drive antisemitism in the United Kingdom , as it exclusively target Israel . my second point be that it be inherently discriminatory to engage in boycott of this type . I be not alone in say that . I pray in aid on this point none other than the Supreme Court of France , which rule as long ago as 2009 that call for a boycott of israeli product in France constitute discrimination and be , as such , illegal under french law . I also refer member to the German Parliament , which designate the BDS movement as antisemitic in May 2019 . and again I cite the harm to Palestinians , with the infamous example of the soft drink company Sodastream , which , under intense pressure , have to shut down its operation cause the loss of 500 palestinian job . the company simply move a few mile into Israel and other people get those job . this be harmful to all side of the community . it be worth rehearse that it be state in evidence to one of the Bill Committees of this House some time ago that the BDS national committee , an international centre point for the movement , include member of the Council of National and Islamic Forces in Palestine , which be a coalition of Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . those be all terrorist organisation that be proscribe by his Majesty ' s Government . the general co - ordinator of the BDS national committee be Mahmoud Nawajaa , who have publicly support Hamas ' s armed wing , the al - Qassam Brigades , and the leader of the Council of National and Islamic Forces in Palestine , Khaled al - Batsh , be a senior official of palestinian Islamic Jihad , a proscribe terrorist organisation fund and co - ordinated by Iran . so it be for those reason — BDS ' s international link to antisemitism and its discriminatory province , and how obviously the Bill be need in this country , as well as its principle — that it must be for central Government to make decision on foreign policy , and not for borough and city council that , with the great possible respect , can not possibly appreciate all the nuance involve in these international decision . I 100 % endorse and agree with everything that my right hon . and learn Friend have be outline , and the argument he be make be very powerful . do he agree that , right now , there be obviously a hugely important moral and ethical purpose to be clear about our opposition to antisemitism in any form , at any time and from any organisation , let alone the abhorrence of what BDS stand for , in the light of the terrorist atrocity that we have see ? this Bill predate the atrocity that we see early this month and , return to his core point , its original purpose be the correct one , which be to remind we that central Government ' s role be to deal with foreign policy and to ensure that local council be make decision that be base not on their foreign policy or any other ideological pressure or view but on the good value for local resident . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend , who make his point eloquently . Israel clearly have a vibrant economy and welcome everyone . I challenge those both outside this House and in other country who support the BDS movement to bear in mind that I suspect that they would not be able to function in today ' s modern society if they be to personally boycott company that be already deeply engage in Israel and do business there . I will give some example : Apple , Google , Intel , Microsoft , 3 m , Alibaba , Amazon , Fujitsu , AOL , Siemens , Bosch , Sony , Texas Instruments , Samsung , Nestl é , Coca - Cola , Western Digital , Xerox , Mitsubishi , Pfizer , Salesforce , Visa , Mastercard , Honda , Ford . I have list of dozen of company that do business in the state of Israel . let we bear in mind that those person who seek to boycott Israel do so with an air of double standard . that be the very least that can be say about it . I support this Bill and reject all of the propose amendment . I call Jeremy Corbyn . I have not put in to speak . I call John McDonnell . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I echo the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) ? if we descend into accusation that those who do not support the Bill be antisemite , or that those who support it be Islamophobic , I think we be lose , to be honest . it be important that we be careful about our language . there be a profound misunderstanding about what we be debate . if this be about the BDS movement itself , there be mechanism that the Government can use to proscribe an organisation . but the debate on this Bill should be about BDS as a method , a tactic . I have support boycott , disinvest and sanction a whole range of regime . I campaign with and support the anti - apartheid movement of BDS with regard to South Africa . actually , a large number of member on both side of the House support that . I also do so with regard to Saudi Arabia and its execution — tragically , it be still do this — of member of the gay community . I have campaign with other across the House with regard to Sri Lanka and the persecution of the Tamils , include the murder of a number of my constituent when they visit their family . I be do the same at the moment with regard to Bahrain because of its imprisonment of the political opposition . it be the same with Russia . I be a founder member 10 year ago of the Ukraine Solidarity Campaign and we have be call for sanction against Russia for year — in advance of even the Government , to be honest . it be the same with Iran . I chair the iranian worker ’ movement committee , which support trade unionist campaign in Iran , many of whom be unfortunately in prison . there be also the Uyghurs . on all of those , I have urge the use of BDS because when other representation and diplomacy fail , there be not many option leave . one of the option , unfortunately , be the use of arm . in not promote that , we have try to find a middle lane , and that be economic isolation to try to influence . to be frank , it do work in South Africa . that be why we have try to ensure that it be a mechanism that can be draw upon . I agree , however , with my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) on the Front Bench . the important thing be to ensure that if we use this mechanism , it be use properly and fairly and that we do not discriminate against one particular country . that be what I have not do . I have call for BDS with regard to good come from the occupy territory and Iran because they be against the international order . have sit in this House for 25 year and listen to speech from conservative representative , I have learn a bit about conservatism , so what I find extraordinary be that this Bill be profoundly unconservative . those on the Government Front Bench seem to be reject many of the individual amendment in front of we . I have listen to Government Members argue that the conservative party stand for freedom of speech , support for the law , the right of property , the democratic right of this Parliament , local government and other agency , devolution of decision - making , and support for the action on the environment and human right . let I turn to the amendment on freedom of speech . amendment 28 and 3 prevent the government introduce a gagging order on even just talk about this — have a debate about it . that be profoundly unconservative . I can not believe that Government Members be not support those amendment . on the issue of right of property , I say to the Conservative Member whose constituency I can not remember that we be both member of the local government pension fund . the Government be override the right to my property , which be my pension fund . I can not believe that the Conservatives be do that . that be my store wage for over 20 year of service in local government over which I now lose control , and the amendment simply say that the member of that pension fund will be allow to decide . my right hon . friend will recall the day when we manage to persuade the GLC pension fund not to invest in apartheid South Africa , but , as I be sure he will agree , the fundamental of the Bill be that it actually reduce a very large area of freedom of speech for elect local councillor . that , to I , undermine the whole principle of representative democracy within our society . I agree . I be chair of finance at that time . it be interesting because there be an awful lot of cross - party support on that , as we be then at the stage of the imprisonment of Nelson Mandela , and the bad oppression that be go on , include what happen in Soweto . let I go through the amendment themselves . on devolution and local decision - making , all that amendment 5 , 16 , 34 and new clause 2 do be ensure that local democracy take place . the argument that I have hear from those on the conservative Benches on several occasion be that local councillor should have the right to represent their local community and , above all else , they should listen to their local community . when there have be row on the Government Benches , it be often as a result of council not have listen to their local community , and sometimes I have agree . these amendment simply enable the local community to express their view and for that to be take into account . on environmental concern , amendment 8 , 10 , 15 and 11 be simply reinforce many of the policy that the conservative party have be advocate in our attempt to get to net zero and protect animal at the same time . I have often hear Government member say that uphold the law be an essential part of conservatism . well , that be what amendment 6 and 17 do . they be simply say that the use of this mechanism can be helpful in uphold international law . this Bill be a bad Bill . I agree that there might be the potential to gain consensus on it . one way forward be through the amendment that the Labour Front Bench have table to try to look at human right in general to see how statement define human right can be make by Government , and that then influence what happen in other decision - make area , such as in local government , pension fund and so on . I believe that there be an opportunity for that , but what I come back to be that this be not the time to do something that in any way divide our community . if the Bill be in any way amendable , let we just pull it . the Government have do that before . there have be a pause on legislation , allow wise head to come together and to come back with something that actually might work . if there be argument about the BDS movement , and I totally condemn some of the statement that I have hear from some of the leader associate with it , that be a separate issue . this be about a method of try to influence individual country to behave in line with international law , protect the environment , and so on . it be about try to set standard in other country that we want to promote globally anyway . this legislation be not something that I would expect from a conservative party at any stage in its life , and certainly not now . if the Government pursue it , it lead we to the conclusion that my right hon . friend the Member for Barking reach : that it be be do for grubby political purpose . if that be the case , we be in the gutter of politic rather than at the high level of politic that we should be debate in this country . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) put forward a clever argument , but many of we see through it to the real motivation . he himself say that he support part of the BDS campaign . the issue of timing be interesting . I be not sure whether we be be ask to wait until Hamas give we permission to bring the Bill back . should we wait for their decision to end the violence , so that we be then able to bring this forward ? People advance the same argument that they be advance today before the massacre , so there will never be a good time to bring the legislation forward if we follow that line . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and I have disagree on some thing , but I respect she very much . she have be very brave in lot of the thing that she have do in recent year , but I think that it be beneath she to accuse people who support the legislation of drive antisemitism . that be an unfortunate slip , because it be a fact that the jewish Leadership Council and the Board of Deputies support the legislation . she may be right that other in the jewish community do not , but it be a fact that leadership group within the community support the legislation . why now ? for I , it be go down to see one of the marche two week ago . I do not want to call they marche for peace , because they be not ; they be marche fill with hate . there be people there enjoy what happen in Israel . I see many of they hold deeply antisemitic sign , many of which call for a boycott of the israeli state . that say to I that this be a moment when we have to grasp this issue , which have be a poisonous part of political discourse on the middle east for so long . if not now , then when ? there will never be a perfect time . as I say in my intervention , even before the israeli Government have act in any way in Gaza in self - defence , BDS campaigner be outside the israeli embassy , after 1 , 400 Israelis have be murder — the bad murder of Jews since the holocaust . what be those campaigner do ? they be not there express sympathy for what have just happen ; they be demand that people boycott the state of Israel . this be a pernicious , nasty , antisemitic campaign , and there be no pretend otherwise , as indeed some people who oppose the Bill will agree . the metric be clear : BDS activity drive antisemitism . that be a fact , and we be all in agreement on that . on the pretence that there be lot of other country at which this be aim , let we be honest : only Israel be the focus of BDS activity . that be where the action in local government and the Welsh Government have be . it have all be about Israel . let we be honest : for some of the people argue against the legislation , it will always be about Israel . whatever have happen , they be always here with word against Israel , hold Israel to different standard . it be the same people ; they just find a different argument . it be the same on every issue relate to the middle east . they be always here , some of they in this House , and it be always about the behaviour of the state of Israel . I find it a really bizarre claim that because some people might react unpleasantly , or potentially violently , to we ban a campaign that all of we who have speak so far — well , maybe not all of we — agree be antisemitic , that might inflame community tension . what we be say there , in effect , be that the elect House of Commons of the United Kingdom should not act because some people might not like it and might get violent . a country that follow that line of argument be a country that be lose . we agree that this be antisemitic and it should not matter , therefore , whether some people who might not like our approach might react . they have be react fairly unpleasantly already — we have all see the marche — so I just do not buy that argument . I have a huge amount of affection for my hon . friend and understanding of what he be say . I ask he to give I his view on the following , which relate to my concern . I take everything that he be say , but at a time when our country can play a pivotal role in try to de - escalate and find a peaceful solution to the horror unravel in the middle east , what assessment have he make of the damage that could arise from a claim of partiality be level against the Government for bring this Bill forward at this time ? my hon . friend say he have affection for I . not many people say that , so I welcome it and I will be frame that part of Hansard . however , I will just push back on the point he make . how be impartiality impact by outlaw something that all of we agree be antisemitic ? who sit on the palestinian BDS National Committee ? it be Hamas and Islamic Jihad . so be we say that we should not ban this antisemitic campaign because some people might not like that . we can push that argument quickly back in the other direction . I go over my time on the last occasion , so I be go to stay absolutely within my time now , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will end with a powerful quote in the jewish Chronicle today from its former editor Stephen Pollard . he say : " you might think that now of all time , when the world have witness the bad massacre of Jews since the Holocaust , there would be a clamour , a rush , even a demand for the BDS Bill to be pass . now of all time , surely , be the time to stand up and say we see where Jew hate lead . " that be the good argument for this legislation and for why now . rise — I thank the hon . gentleman for keep within time , but I be now go to impose a time limit of eight minute , just to ensure that everybody get the chance to speak . the speech we have just listen to from the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) show exactly why this be not the right time for this Bill and this debate . the speech from the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) that he criticise be a perfectly reasonable one make the case for the tool of boycott , sanction and divestment . to suggest that those tool be intrinsically antisemitic be clearly and evidentially wrong . the vast generalisation that the hon . Gentleman have deploy again show why this Bill be deeply unhelpful and the timing downright dangerous . the brutal attack on israeli civilian by Hamas on 7 October have fill every right - think person with horror and underscore the urgent need to stand against violence . we do that , in part , by defend and advocate human right . these principle need to guide our response to the collective punishment of the civilian population of Gaza , too , and to any other unlawful action be perpetrate by the israeli or palestinian authority , or by Hamas . I be struggle to understand why , as one of the lead global champion of human right , the UK would want to send a signal that it think that human right matter only selectively — that would be the impact of the current wording if the Bill pass . it would say to the world that some people ' s right matter less than other people ' s . frankly , the timing seem design to make political capital from a horrendous situation , and the Government should be ashamed . this be a new low , and it be reckless , provocative and deeply damaging . the Government risk ignite the situation far by bring back this Bill with the clause single out Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . this legislation , in effect , apply restriction on the right to freedom of expression and debate , in a way that risk polarise view even far . at any time , let alone in this most sensitive of contexts , enshrine in law such partiality towards the conflict be beyond irresponsible . I have table three amendment to the Bill : two on the ability of public body to make decision about their activity on environmental ground and one to exclude fossil fuel from the Bill ' s provision . first , on fossil fuel , there be a worrying lack of clarity from the Government about what it may or may not be permissible for public body to do should the Bill be enact . my amendment 15 be intend to clear that up and protect the right of public authority to divest from fossil fuel . early this week , friend of the Earth publish evidence that at least £ 12 . 2 billion of local government pension fund be invest in fossil fuel . the clarity that I seek to provide with my amendment be need because fossil fuel be obviously not cover by the environmental misconduct exemption in respect of illegal activity , because obviously extraction currently happen legally . it be need because decision to div could easily be bring into the scope of clause 1 because a fossil fuel company , especially in the case of state oil and gas firm , could easily meet the threshold for association with a foreign government . majority state - own or control oil or gas firm such as Saudi Aramco , Equinor , Petrobras and Gazprom , or other company that be highly associate with a foreign government , would obviously be consider to be affiliate with certain country , which would affect decision about thing like pension fund . the ability of pension scheme in particular to divest from fossil fuel under current legislation and guidance be well establish and compatible with fiduciary duty . the consideration of whether to divest often include the discussion or consideration of individual state as example of why divestment be desirable . campaigner will often publicly cite example of state where fossil fuel extraction be take place as a reason to divest from fossil fuel asset , even if the divestment seek be much broad . this be reasonable and entirely responsible given the financial risk associate with thing such as carbon bubble and stranded asset , let alone the climate crisis more broadly , and it be currently lawful . but if the legislation be pass , such consideration run the risk of be judge to have be influence by the political or moral disapproval of foreign state conduct and thus bring divestment decision within the Bill ' s scope . if the Minister do not intend fossil fuel divestment to be cover by the Bill , it must be explicitly exclude , not leave to run the kind of risk that I have outline . on environmental misconduct , some sorely lack clarity need to be inject into the Bill , hence my two amendment . the Bill have an exemption that be limit to environmentally harmful behaviour that " amount to an offence , whether under the law of a part of the United Kingdom or any other country or territory " . much environmentally destructive activity take place entirely legally ; indeed , that could even be the rationale for a boycott or a divestment campaign . during the passage of the Environment Act 2021 , the limitation of due diligence measure that target only illegal deforestation be make clear — for example , because a significant proportion of deforestation due to soy or palm oil in Brazil or Indonesia respectively could take place legally , or because it would be incredibly difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal deforestation . my amendment 8 would expand the environmental ground on which a public body be allow to make certain economic decision beyond activity that be currently simply an offence . without it , the exemption be unworkable at worst and will undermine good practice at well . let I explain . several pension expert who give evidence in Committee warn that the Bill will impact on environmental , social and governance investment decision and cut across pension scheme ' fiduciary duty . those expert include the Northern Ireland Local Government Officers ' Superannuation Committee and the Local Government Association . it be now standard practice to consider ESG factor when look at investment , and there be widespread concern that the environmental misconduct exemption be so weak that it do not provide the exemption that minister claim it provide . in turn , this be a threat to adherence with thing such as the United Nations principle for responsible investment or , indeed , the sustainable development goal . it fail to recognise that investor often consider divergence from good practice , and not simply breach of law , and it fail to reflect the fact that in country with , for example , opaque legal system , the establishment of whether an offence have occur may not be straightforward . there be also a risk that a campaign direct at persuade public body to boycott or divest on environmental ground could end up come within the scope of the legislation . that could happen if , for example , case study be judge to constitute the criticism or disproval of a foreign state , or if they identify where an environmentally harmful activity such as log in the Amazon be take place . the Government be fond of claim that they have the very good environmental credential , so why would they want to scupper the potential for public body to demand high environmental standard — for example , in their supply chain or from their pension fund manager — with a poorly word reference to " environmental misconduct " ? my amendment 8 would tackle that and provide for a proper exemption . my amendment 9 would extend the definition of " environmental misconduct " to include damage , regardless of whether it be legal or illegal , as well as specie , habitat and the natural world . it replicate word for word the definition of " natural environment " in the Government ' s own Environment Act 2021 ; as such , I hope that it provide the consistency and clarity that be not currently afford by the current wording . I would be especially interested to know why Ministers do not use that wording in the first place , give that it be already in the 2021 Act , and why they be not aim for a consistent definition of " natural environment " across different legislation . to conclude , my amendment be design to properly protect the exemption that Ministers claim be in the Bill , in line with definition in other legislation . I rise to speak in favour of the motion and to support the Bill . the event on 7 October mean that we be debate the Bill in a different context . we be do so against the backdrop of the murder of at least 1 , 400 jewish people and the kidnapping of hundred in Israel , as well as a 641 % rise in antisemitic incident in the UK . the Bill be not on its own a solution to antisemitism or the key to solve every problem in the middle east . however , I will explain why it will not only provide much - need reassurance to the jewish community here , but benefit both Israelis and Palestinians . I will set out why the BDS movement be harmful internationally and discriminatory towards jewish community here in the UK , and why it be vital that Israel be name in the Bill . I be not jewish . I grow up in Dudley , where we do not have a jewish community — I grow up hungry to know more about history and politic — but I when I be young my father work for an israeli company , iscar . he move around job as a salesman , so I remember his work by which country the company originate from . for I , Israel be just another one of those place where he have travel for work . ISCAR be set up by Stef Wertheimer , a German - bear Jew who flee the Nazis in 1937 . he start a small metal shop and tool - make company call iscar in 1952 . Stef believe that capitalism be well equip than politic to solve the conflict . he believe that , if economic disparity be at the core of the tension between Arabs and Jews , he might have a solution . in 2019 , it be report that of iscar ' s 3 , 500 employee , more than 1 , 000 be of Druze or arab origin . in the eye of the BDS movement , that normalisation be problematic and should be boycott . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) have already mention SodaStream , a successful israeli company that export its product across the world . it have be provide job to countless Israelis , as well as once employ about 900 Palestinians who rely on the company for their livelihood . but in 2015 , it be force out of the west bank because of the BDS movement , lead to those Palestinians lose their job . that harm the very people the BDS movement claim to support . Ali Jafar , a shift manager from a west bank village , who work for SodaStream for two year , sum it up when he say : " all the people who want to close " the factory " be mistaken … they didn ' t take into consideration the family . " it be those family we should think about when vote on the Bill . when SodaStream close its factory in the west bank , it move to Rahat in the Negev desert . on the final day of Ramadan , it organise the large Iftar celebration in Israel : almost 3 , 000 Israelis and Palestinians come together to break bread at the factory . the BDS movement remain against SodaStream ' s factory in the Negev desert because it have find new reason for do so . it say : " SodaStream be still subject to boycott by the global , Palestinian - lead BDS movement for palestinian right . its new factory be actively complicit in Israel ' s policy of displace the indigenous Bedouin - palestinian citizen of Israel in the Naqab ( Negev ) . SodaStream ' s mistreatment of and discrimination against palestinian worker be not forget either . " why be the integration success of company such as SodaStream and iscar not tell ? because they show normalisation ; they show neighbourly relationship and peace between people . I have be strike by the story of the Hamas hostage and their family . some of they have live in Gaza and move when the occupation end in 2005 , but still have palestinian friend there . we do not hear about those kind of relationship . extremist do not want to portray any kind of normal life , success or quality of existence , whether they be from Hamas or the BDS movement — neither promote peaceful coexistence . the BDS movement boast that , in 18 year , it have do 18 year ' worth of " turn darkness into light " — that be quite some sugar - coating if you ask I , Madam Deputy Speaker . the BDS movement have an anti - normalisation charter that forbid " the participation in any project , initiative or activity , local or international , that bring together ( on the same ' platform ' ) Palestinians … and Israelis … and do not meet the follow two condition : ( 1 ) the israeli side publicly recognize the UN - affirm inalienable right of the palestinian people , which be set out in the 2005 BDS Call , and " — this be the most important part — " ( 2 ) the joint activity constitute a form of co - resistance against the israeli regime of occupation , settler - colonialism and apartheid . " that be evidence , if it be ever need , that the BDS movement do not want peace . BDS ignore or reject the jewish people ' s right to self - determination and occasionally call for the eradication of Israel , the world ' s only jewish state , so if BDS ' s objective be not peace , what be it ? at its core , it be antisemitic . the Anti - Defamation League have assess that BDS ' s campaign often include allegation of jewish power , dual loyalty , and jewish / israeli culpability for unrelated issue and crisis . I will now explain why this have such a negative impact on the jewish community here in the UK . the jewish Leadership Council have make the case that public body in the UK be more likely to interact with people than the Government be , and that it be therefore important they be trust by all community . the JLC believe that most relationship between jewish community and public body be usually positive , but that this be undermine when those body seek to involve themselves in international matter and support BDS movement . the event of the past few week will , I hope , give many people a well understanding of why Israel be so important to the jewish community . have work in the community , visit Israel a number of time and work with holocaust survivor , I think I understand , but for many in the jewish community around the world , repeat that 7 October be the big loss of jewish life since the holocaust bring with it unimaginable pain and a new understanding . Israel ' s very existence be bear of the need for a safe haven for Jews . the event of 7 October be never mean to happen . Hamas know they strike at the heart of Israel and , therefore , the heart of the jewish community . when a movement seek to single out the world ' s only jewish state as a unique evil , it be clear why that could be regard as antisemitic . there be no comparable campaign about any other state on this scale — none that mobilise as many people and seek to divide and maintain division , rather than strive for peace . if they be to have their way , supporter of BDS might claim victory ; however , they can not claim with any credibility to be supporter of a two - state solution . Boycotts harm Israel , they harm Palestinians , and they harm any prospect of peace . the Bill be not a barrier to peace : the BDS movement , and oppose the Bill , be barrier to peace . I applaud the Government for their strong stance in take action against BDS and for bring this Bill before the House , and I will be wholeheartedly support it . order . I will now announce the result of the ballot hold today for the election of the Defence Committee Chair . four hundred and thirty - three vote be cast , three of which be invalid . there be a single round of vote with 430 valid vote . the quota to be reach be therefore 216 vote . Robert Courts be elect Chair with 249 vote . he will take up his post immediately , and I congratulate he on his election . the result of the count under the alternative vote system will be make available as soon as possible in the Vote Office and publish on the internet . I rise to speak to the amendment in my name , as well as amendment 13 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . both relate to how the Bill will impact public body ' right to make ethical decision on matter relate to international law and human right , so that be the subject I will begin with . Gaza , the United Nations have say , have become a " hellhole " . israeli bomb have decimate whole neighbourhood . in six day alone , 6 , 000 bomb be drop on the besiege enclave — more bomb than NATO force drop in an entire year of intense fighting in Afghanistan . an israeli military spokesperson be frank about the purpose of the bombing : " the emphasis be on damage and not on accuracy " . nearly 6 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , include nearly 2 , 500 child . last night be the deadly so far , with 700 people dead . this be happen to one of the most densely populate area on earth , where 2 . 3 million people , half of whom be child , be trap in an area no big than the Isle of Wight . even before the recent violence , Gaza have be besiege for more than a decade and a half , with access by land , air and water blockade . back in 2010 , even conservative Prime Minister David Cameron call it a " prison camp " , but now Israel have impose a total siege , cut off water , fuel , electricity and food . the UN say hospital will run out of fuel today , and incubator with premature baby will stop work . Israel ' s evacuation order demand that 1 . 1 million people flee their home be describe as " impossible … without devastate human consequence " by the United Nations , and the World Health Organisation have call it a " death sentence for the sick and injure " . indiscriminate bombing , collective punishment and forcibly displace people be " clear violation " of international law — not accord to I , but accord to the United Nations Secretary - General . this be in no way downplay or deny Hamas ' s appal attack on israeli citizen , which I absolutely condemn , and I again echo the call for the release of hostage . just as I and no Member here can imagine the fear and anguish of family who have see love one take hostage , I can not imagine the terror of palestinian family face constant israeli bombardment . on this question , the United Nations Secretary - General say yesterday : " international law be clear " . yet in this House , people do not want to accept that . Hamas ' s crime in no way excuse what we have see since . that be relevant to this debate because these clear violation of international law have be give the green light by political leader here in the UK and beyond , even with an israeli defence official promise to turn Gaza into a " city of tent " . the Prime Minister have still refuse to acknowledge these clear violation of international law and , unlike a grow number of his counterpart across the world , he be still refuse to call for an immediate ceasefire . that be utterly shameful , and it go to the heart of the problem with this Bill and the need for these amendment . Israel ' s brutal war on Gaza be not an isolated example . for example , the Saudi - lead war on Yemen , which I have speak about repeatedly in this House , have claim the life of more than 150 , 000 people . it have include war crime such as the saudi bombing of a school bus , which kill more than 40 child and a dozen adult . that war have also be wage with the british Government ' s support , include considerable military equipment and assistance . let we find some historical example . perhaps the most notable be the Government ' s support for the apartheid south african regime , which people should be absolutely ashamed of and embarrassed about . the then Prime Minister , Margaret Thatcher , call the African National Congress and Nelson Mandela " terrorist " , and Young Conservatives proudly wear badge call for he to be hang . in each of these case — whether it be Israel ' s war on Gaza , the saudi war on Yemen or apartheid South Africa — violation of international law and gross injustice have be commit with the support and complicity of the British Government . if the Bill be pass unamended , on these matter and more , public body such as local council and university will not be able to make ethical procurement or investment decision . local democracy will be sideline , and they will be force to ignore question of human right and international law . the case of South Africa show most clearly why that would be such a mistake . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to continue . while the Government support the apartheid regime , local council across the country rally around the anti - apartheid movement , with 39 council across the country have divest from company operate in South Africa by 1985 . if this Bill have be put in place then , that action would have be illegal . that be why a huge coalition of more than 70 organisation have come together to oppose it . those organisation include trade union such as ASLEF , the Fire Brigades Union , Unison and Unite , and campaign group such as Greenpeace and Liberty . amendment 17 , in my name , and amendment 13 seek to address this grave mistake by protect the right of public body to make ethical decision , not leave they at the whim of the deeply unethical decision of national government such as ours . I urge member from across the House to support the amendment . some year ago , an elderly jewish constituent come to see I in my surgery concerned about her own safety follow a rise in violence in Israel and Palestine , and the result antisemitism here in the UK . I say to she then that , if the mob ever come for she , before they get to she they would find I stand in her driveway with my baseball bat in hand . I have stand with the jewish community across the UK , particularly in London , over the last nearly 25 year of my political career . when I be tell that in seek to improve this legislation , or in express doubt about its impact , I be somehow pick a side , with the implication that I be not stand with that community , I find it both insulting and offensive , particularly come from member of this House who , while accept unquestioningly this legislation , have not do so with other legislation come from the Government . we all have a duty at this point in time , as the Prime Minister and other have say , to choose our word carefully . on Monday , he say it be a time for " care and caution " , and he be exactly right . for those who say that there be never a good time , there be certainly a well time . as Israel reel from the profoundly evil crime that be commit against it , at the same time as palestinian parent search in the rubble for the body of their child , for we to bring forward legislation that member on the Government Benches have say in term be pick a side seem remarkably insensitive , not least because our Prime Minister be frantically tour the world , try his good to work with the Qataris and other to release those hostage . they must be release as soon as possible . I can not see how choose even to amend the programme motion to get this thing under the wire at this time be anything other than create difficulty in that regard . I have table five amendment to this legislation , and I seek to improve it . I understand that the Government be try to pursue a manifesto commitment — a manifesto on which I stand — and while I might have doubt about the impact of this legislation on civic society generally , I recognise that there be some legitimacy to it . however , the form of the legislation matter . I will take my amendment in turn as they appear on the amendment paper . first , amendment 7 go to the heart of much of the objection that people have to this legislation . by carve out Israel , the west bank and the occupy Golan Heights in the legislation , I be afraid the Secretary of State be play into the antisemitism we have see rise in this country over the past few week . I quote Jonathan Freedland on Second Reading , and it be worth quote he again . he write in the jewish Chronicle : " what be the favourite refrain of the antisemite ? that Israel be the one country you ' re not ' allow ' to criticise . this bill take a canard and , in the case of boycott , turn it into the law of the land . " there be no requirement in law for this carve - out to exist . if we agree to amendment 7 , the impact of the Bill would be precisely the same on a daily basis . Israel would merely be treat as all other country in the world would be treat for the purpose of our legislation . the dreadful thing about this carve - out be that prior to this awful crime be commit , Israel be try to achieve normalisation with its neighbour . with american sponsorship , it be in fruitful talk with country that have be at loggerhead with it for year , yet here we be exceptionalise Israel again . amendment 7 also speak to some significant legal concern that have be express about the impact of this legislation under international law and on our undertaking at the United Nations , and about the conflation of the three territory and the signal it send not only to Palestinians live in the west bank , but to those who occupy the Golan Heights . I would be interested to hear what the Secretary of State have to say about that issue . if clause 3 ( 7 ) remain , I guarantee that this legislation will end up in the court , and there will be wrangle for year before it be give any kind of effect . amendment 3 would amend clause 4 to lift the effective ban on criticism of this legislation by other elect individual . again , the proposal in the Bill strike at the very heart of what we try to achieve at every level of our democracy in this country , which be a sense of ethical and moral conduct , and that people should be able to express their view . my right hon . friend be make a powerful point . like I , he have spend a lot of time in local government . do he agree with the point I raise on Second Reading that a key issue be that our local elect brother — for example , those specifically elect on a foreign policy platform , such as the 17 councillor who serve at one stage on Birmingham City Council on behalf of the " Justice for Kashmir " party — may have a specific democratic reason for be there to express that foreign policy view ? there will be circumstance in which councillor , include those who sit in the House of Lords and who sit as part of international body , such as the congress of the Council of Europe , benefit from parliamentary privilege in express their view . there be therefore a risk that this gagging order be not simply gag what people should expect as freedom of speech , but be also ineffective in the objective it set out to achieve . my hon . friend speak with experience , and he put it extremely well . to assume that councillor be merely elect on the basis of their attitude towards pothole and refuse collection be completely erroneous ; they be elect for all sort of reason . many councillor and member of the devolved administration who campaign on social , moral , ethical and , indeed , foreign policy issue would say that they have a mandate , and not even to be able to express opposition to the law while still comply with it seem very un - British , extremely illiberal and unnecessarily draconian . we have lot of law in this country to which councillor and , indeed , other elect official of oppose political persuasion can express opposition . to have an exception on this basis seem faintly ridiculous . on amendment 4 , I declare my interest as a member of the local government pension fund , which I understand be the only pension fund affect by the Bill . as I say on Second Reading , it be unfortunate that , as the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say , my accumulate saving be be put under the control of the Secretary of State . if , in pursuit of this control , my pension diminish in value because I be force to follow the decision make by the Secretary of State , what will be my compensation in retirement ? amendment 5 be about exempt university as public body . there be a technical reason , as well as a principle reason , for this amendment . I outline my objection on Second Reading , not least because we have just appoint a free speech tsar and legislate for free speech on university campus , but here we be busily curtail free speech through this Bill . the technical issue be about university be classify as public body . as the Secretary of State will know , there have be a flurry of activity in the Treasury because further education college have be classify as public body , which mean all their debt come on to the public balance sheet . this be another step towards university , with their even great level of debt , come on to the balance sheet , about which the Treasury ought to have a say . I hope and believe that , when the Bill go to the House of Lords , the Treasury will want to have a look . finally , amendment 6 be about international law . I know that the Secretary of State , like every member of the Government , be extremely keen on international law and want to ensure it be follow in all circumstance , and particularly in this current horrific conflict in Israel and Gaza . one of the great benefit of our more flexible system be that , as the Government call for boycott of russian business and russian individual follow the invasion of Ukraine , other part of civic society be able to move extremely quickly to comply , whereas under this legislation they would have to wait for the Government to issue some kind of regulation , which would have to go through this House and be debate . that could possibly take week , if not long , particularly if the House be in recess . amendment 6 propose that if the Government declare that a country or situation be in breach of international law , other organisation can immediately respond by issue their own sanction or disinvestment . I honestly believe that the amendment I have table — I understand that only amendment 7 , which be probably the most important , will go to a Division this evening — represent an attempt to improve the legislation , rather than necessarily pick a side . although this debate have , I be afraid , be position as a pro - Israel or pro - palestine debate , I be primarily pro - Britain . I want to get the legislation right for this country , for the jewish community and for every community in this country so that we can live with the consequence for year to come . human right group have rightly condemn the Bill as an outrageous and unwarranted interference in the ability of council , university and other public body to use their purchasing power to pursue ethical procurement and investment policy in order to help defend human right and tackle issue such as climate change . everyone who care about issue such as the illegal arm trade , activity of arm manufacturer and trader whose weapon fuel conflict around the globe , or climate justice , correctly will be horrify by this blatant attack on the basic democratic right of elect public body to act on behalf of the resident who elect they . the Bill specifically protect the state of Israel , israeli company and their human right abuse from local authority sanction , no matter what human right abuse they might commit or be commit now . it be self - evident that council and other public body must be free — and , indeed , have a duty — to act to prevent or discourage breach of international humanitarian law . it be clear that israeli settlement be illegal under international law , and no local authority or Government should offer support to such activity . the Government ' s anti - BDS Bill contradict the guide principle on business and human right publish by the United Nations . it penalise public body that comply with the UK ' s responsibility as a permanent member of the UN Security Council . it take away the democratic right of public body to make ethical financial decision . the Bill uniquely shield human right abuse by Israel , allow it to act with impunity . indeed , the Bill exempt specific country — namely Israel , despite its human right abuse and war crime — even though we do not know what future action such country may take . that be a show of complete contempt for the people of Palestine and the daily inhumanity , abuse and discrimination they face . the Bill be a textbook case of divide and rule politic . it be profoundly disappointing that the Government be pursue the anti - boycott Bill at this moment , when tension be extremely high in our community . in the past few week , almost 7 , 000 Palestinians have be kill — almost half of they child — and 1 , 400 Israelis have be kill , and the civilian of Gaza have be massacre by israeli airstrike . war crime be happen in real time . an immediate ceasefire be require , and the Prime Minister , the Government , the Leader of the Opposition and all political leader in this House should be call for it . boycott , divestment and sanction be an effective mean of peaceful resistance . the Bill be no less toxic than at its previous stage . if it pass , it will close off a vital democratic avenue for the close representative of ordinary people at local level to demand accountability and change . it will show how little this Government care about the life of civilian and the plight of persecute and exploit community around the world . I welcome this Bill , which fulfil a manifesto commitment and restate and protect the Government ' s foreign and trade policy prerogative by prevent local authority and other public body from pursue politically motivate foreign policy objective of their own . some have say that the Bill would limit free speech , but that be not correct because individual councillor and public body can still say whatever they like as private citizen , as long as that speech be lawful . but local council have no democratic mandate to use their control of taxpayer ' fund and asset to create their own foreign policy or to express divisive opinion that undermine social cohesion in the community for which they be responsible . we have hear devolution speak about in the Chamber . I be a supporter of devolution , but the whole point be that certain power be devolve and certain power be not . when my constituent go to the ballot box at local election , they vote for the candidate who they think be the good person to ensure regular bin collection , well - maintain road or social care ; they be not vote on foreign policy , defence policy or income tax rate , because these be nationally reserve issue for the Westminster Government . it be therefore unjustifiable for local authority to pretend they have a democratic mandate to use ratepayer ' money to signal their own foreign policy position . this Bill do not restrict free speech ; rather , it restrict public body from undermine policy decide nationally by a national Government elect in national ballot . none of the amendment we be debate today would enhance the Bill , and in fact some be intend to make it unworkable . amendment 4 , for example , would make the pension scheme divestment provision unworkable , and amendment 7 and 21 seek to remove an important clause relate to Israel . these amendment miss the crucial point of the Bill and the reason why it be be bring forward : all record recent example of public body pursue boycott against foreign state or territory have be against Israel . 4 . 45 pm BDS , which we have hear about extensively in today ' s debate , be unique in its targeting of the world ' s only jewish state . the BDS movement be not a harmless , peaceful movement ; it have alarm link to extremist , include the Hamas terrorist group , which have just commit probably the bad crime in my lifetime — the bad mass killing of Jews since the holocaust . public body fund by UK taxpayer should not be express public support for the divisive ideology advance by the BDS movement . its founder have , indeed , repeatedly express his opposition to Israel ' s right to exist as a state of the jewish people and have endorse palestinian armed resistance . when public body seek to undermine british foreign and trade policy and choose to do that only for matter relate to Israel , it give legitimacy to and encourage the sort of appalling antisemitic protest and attack we have see over the past few week . let I take my home city of Sheffield as an example . in 2019 the council pass a motion regard its position on Palestine ; it have nothing to do with the council ' s responsibility as a local authority , but everything to do with its attempt to signal its anti - israel political view . and in under a week ' s time , on 1 November , the Green party councillor will put forward a motion entitle " stop the genocide in Gaza " that make no mention of Hamas and their terrorism . since the horrific terrorist attack on Israel by Hamas , we have see some shocking scene on the street of Sheffield : the israeli flag tear down from the town hall ; antisemitic chant on our street ; even a roadblock set up by supporter of Hamas , intimidate driver and ask for money . I find it unbelievable and shameful that , after witness the despicable attack , torture and rape of jewish civilian , such action can take place in Sheffield , supposedly a " city of sanctuary " . it be very difficult for the jewish community in Sheffield to feel safe when the local authority — the official elect body — appear to align itself with hard - line anti - Israel movement . that be why we need this Bill : because yet again Israel and the jewish people be be single out and subject to discrimination across this country and across the world . this single out of Israel , the only democracy in the middle east , be just another form of the world ' s old prejudice . of course the Government of Israel can be criticise by british citizen , as can any Government in the world , but it be unacceptable for local authority and public body to abuse their position to make divisive political intervention for which they have no democratic mandate . that be why I support this Bill go forward unamended . I want to begin by say that I be not sure it be helpful to link these proceeding with the current crisis in Israel and Gaza , which be what some have seek to do in this debate . I think we should be careful about that and I want to thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) for the tone she adopt in her opening remark and for her call for sensitivity and moderation in our approach to this issue . the nature of the BDS campaign be to promote anti - normalisation : it encourage the notion that there should not be contact , trade , exchange , negotiation , or even dialogue with Israel . the founder of the BDS movement have repeatedly express his view that the israeli state should not exist . for I , the aim of the movement be clear . consequently , I be utterly opposed to the aim of BDS , and I believe that they be as detrimental to the interest of the people of this country as they be to the people of Israel and the Palestinians . when I hear people talk about the BDS movement , I often think they completely misunderstand the exact nature of our relationship with Israel in trade , medicine , security and technological exchange , and how people in this country be keep healthy and safe as a result . I be therefore utterly oppose to BDS . not only do it target Israel and hurt the Palestinians , it be also completely detrimental to the interest of the people of this country . just in pass , as a Birmingham MP , I want to refer to the point make by the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , who be unfortunately no long in his place . I want he to know that Veolia still have a contract with Birmingham City Council despite his great effort to suggest that Birmingham be responsible for Veolia pull out of Israel . I think he rather overstate the case . I say to the Secretary of State and to the Minister , who be extremely courteous and reasonable throughout Committee , that after so many hour in Committee and such a period for reflection I be really disappointed that we have have so little movement from the Government on Report . I hate to say this , but I find it hard not to conclude that the aim and argument of BDS may not be the total priority . I hope that I be wrong , and I hope that people can demonstrate that to I . I remain strongly of the view that the Government would be well advise to drop clause 3 ( 7 ) altogether , as I think it will probably make thing bad . I find myself in total agreement with the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) on that . I also remain unconvinced by clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) . I support amendment 16 and 13 . I also support new clause 3 , which seek to provide protection for religious dietary requirement . I think it be mention that one of the BDS movement ' s proposal be to remove kosher food from supermarket shelf . I can not believe that anyone in their right mind would think that a reasonable way to proceed , so I welcome the new clause . we need a Bill to address the iniquity of the BDS movement . we need a Bill to unite people on both side of the House who genuinely want consensus and broadly share the same aim . I regret that the Bill in its present form be not a piece of legislation that will achieve that outcome , and I urge Ministers to seek a consensus . there be still time to reconsider the approach . it seem to fall to I to speak last in the debate from the back Benches — [ interruption . ] ah , excellent . my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) and I may be on a similar theme . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) ; if I be not mistaken , we visit Gaza together some 11 year ago . I think one colleague mention that the question tonight be , " which side be you on ? " I do not think that be the question at all . if I be ask that question , my answer be always the same : I be on the side of the United Kingdom . that , I believe , be where everyone in this House should be — with the possible exception of those who seek not to be in the United Kingdom . that require I and all of we to define the national interest in the context of that and any propose legislation . we can define national interest in different way : deep family tie with Commonwealth member ; our close cultural and economic tie with our neighbour in Europe ; our share value with fellow democracy ; and our historical link with nation around the world . but we would place first , surely , our security and the potential vulnerability of this nation to terrorist and nation abroad who would damage we . it be therefore strongly in our interest to bring forward legislation that build bridge for community both here and abroad as part of our role as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council , commit to the rule of law and promote the value of free speech and transparency , strong in the belief , for example , of democracy stick to international rule of engagement because to do otherwise risk we descend to the level of the thugocracie that exist elsewhere . where do that leave I and we in today ' s debate ? it mean that we , without reservation , condemn the appalling act of Hamas in their invasion of several village and kibbutz in southern Israel close to the border , their murder of civilian and their taking of hostage from , I believe , 41 country . it mean that we strongly support Israel ' s right of defence . but it also mean that we believe that the invasion of Gaza by air , let alone by ground , have inevitably already cause as many , if not more , civilian casualty in way that have already almost certainly break the rule of international engagement , include in term of access to water , electricity , fuel , medicine and so on . I understand and accept that all infrastructure in Gaza be compromise by Hamas . there will be building and basement of school and hospital and so on that Hamas be use , but that do not justify , for example , bomb building of refuge in the compound of St Porphyrius . our position in this nation be for a genuine two - state solution that allow for both the state of Israel , a remarkable state with so much to admire , and a state of Palestine , with people have suffer since the Nakba of 1948 over access to land sometimes seize illegally in the occupy territory , as United Nations law make clear . that be the right position , however difficult to achieve and however abuse by this israeli Government ' s continue deliberate building of illegal settlement in the occupy territory and by Hamas , Hezbollah and Iran ' s refusal to allow Israel to exist at all . this , then , be the relevance of a pro - uk policy to this particular Bill . into this delicate landscape of increase polarisation throughout the middle east stride the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . I agree with the principle of reduce local government posturing on foreign policy — some of we be old enough to remember the Labour Lambeth Borough Council ' s nuclear free zone — and the principle of the Bill can be reasonably in the national interest . I agree with the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak and many other on both side of the House that the BDS movement be clearly antisemitic . it be clearly aim at Israel . there be no question about that . but at the same time , when my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) advise that we should therefore stop everything regardless and support Israel and its government ' s statement on any issue regardless , I do not think that that be the case . our support should not be at the price of explicitly give the israeli Government a completely free hand in their policy towards the west bank and the occupy territory , ride roughshod through UN Security Council motion draft by the United Kingdom . without they , the fact on the ground , as the Government like to call they , make a two - state solution hard and hard . therefore , the motivation behind the drafting of amendment 7 , which I be support so strongly , be not to bow down before threat by Hamas and those who wish for no state of Israel at all . it be not to support the constituent of mine who say to I , during a peace march — note the irony of those word — that Hitler have a point . no , I be not back amendment 7 to support anything like that . I be do so because there be many other among my constituent and other Muslims in this country who do believe in a two - state solution and who do want to see peace . I believe that the representative of those arab government who have reach agreement with Israel and sign the Abraham accord have do so because they do not want to see Israel destroy and they do want to see peace in the middle east , and I do not believe that any of they would support the clause in this Bill that prevent we from hold the occupation — the illegal occupation — by israeli settler to account . although I also support other amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , who speak so well this evening , it be principally amendment 7 that give we a chance to put the Bill back on the right track by remove an aspect of it that prevent or , at the very least , inhibit we from hold the israeli Government to account in the way in which so many people in this country and abroad would like . this be not about be naive ; it be about recognise that the BDS movement be deeply unpleasant , and be target Israel . yes , we must be vigilant against both antisemitism and Islamophobia , but we should not exclude hold Israel to account . that be why I be support amendment 7 this evening . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) . I , too , wish to speak in particular about amendment 7 , table by the hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . it be with a heavy heart that I be take part in this debate . I be half minded not to do so , because now be not the time . the impact of the awful violence in Israel and Palestine on community across the world can not be underestimate , but the answer be not to debate the Bill right now . by all mean let we have some space , some time : there have only be statement , and we have not have a chance to talk about it . by all mean let we do that , but not this . it be unwise even to table the debate for this week , and on Monday I urge the Prime Minister to change his mind . in his response , he speak about the importance of not undermine " community cohesion " . I politely suggest that if a government do not want to undermine community cohesion , the last thing they should do be introduce a Bill such as this . may I associate myself with the argument advance by the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) ? what she say be exactly what member of my jewish community have say to I . they be appal that the Government be choose to play politic at this time . the Bill be divisive at the good of time , and the fact be that this be the bad of time . that hold true regardless of what we may think of the Bill ' s content . the Liberal Democrats be on the record as register our opposition to specific clause on Second Reading , but I be here primarily to talk about the timing . amendment 7 cut to the chase . it address the fact that on the face of the Bill , in clause 3 , be a reference to the conflict in Israel and Palestine — a conflict that have cost thousand of innocent life over the past three week , and a conflict in respect of which intense diplomacy be require . I be shocked that the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister , have tour the middle east and have understand the strength of feeling but also the sensitivity , have decide that this in any way help they to do their very important job . make no mistake : those leader in the arab world be watch what be happen here today , and I do not think that it show we in the good light . if the Prime Minister back two state and want to take any sort of lead , he need to mean it . I be sorry to say that arrange for this Bill to be debate this week be not the mark of a statesman . it be a disgrace . it be a disgrace because this conflict be affect family across the UK as well as those abroad . maybe they be fearful of become the victim of hate crime . we have see a dreadful rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia over the last three week . the Community Security Trust have record the high ever number of antisemitic incident across this 17 - day period . or maybe they be fearful for their family in the region . I have speak many time already about my fear for my extended family in Gaza . or maybe they be fearful for their love one who be be hold hostage by Hamas . if we be go to engage in this conflict , we should speak about how to get those hostage free . early this week , I and my party leader meet some of those family , include the aunt of Ariel and Kfir , who be four year old and nine month old . I be disgusted to see a picture of four - year - old Ariel deface with horn and Hitler imagery at a bus stop in Finchley this morning — an utterly grotesque act . I hope the perpetrator be catch and the full force of the law be apply . this hateful antisemitism have no place in our society , and that be not up for debate . on Palestinians , we should be speak about the situation on the ground in Gaza and how we can get aid in . child in Gaza be write their name on their hand so that if they be kill , they can be bury with their family . I attend a vigil yesterday where we mourn those innocent child whose life have be needlessly lose . it be not right that innocent Palestinians be be hold accountable for Hamas ' s atrocity . I have hear argument , primarily from the Government Benches , that Hamas be purportedly tell people not to move and find safety , but that be not what I be hear — certainly not from my own family . I find it deeply offensive for people to suggest that Hamas be give my family order . the reason people be not move be that they be frail and can not move , but even if they do , the south be be bomb too . the conversation have change in Gaza . no long do they ask , " where do I go to be safe ? " . the question now be , " where do I go to die ? " . so how be we to facilitate release those hostage ? how be we to safeguard innocent civilian life ? it be through a humanitarian ceasefire . that be a position back by the Pope , the Archbishop of Canterbury , United States Secretary of State Blinken and — finally , it seem — the Government this morning . what the House should be do at this time be dig deep into our humanity and our compassion . it be a time for leadership , for soothe word and for calm to bring people together — all people , directly affect or not — and to demonstrate , by what we do here , how to let the light pierce into the darkness and despair . so I support amendment 7 wholeheartedly and I believe that this place can and should offer more than division . let I make my final point very clearly . I do not want something like this to drive a wedge between any member in this House and our jewish community . I stand with member of my jewish community in Oxford in the first week of the attack and I grieve with they . we shed tear together . I stand shoulder to shoulder with they now . we all stand shoulder to shoulder with they now . I say to those Members who suggest that I should pick a side or , even bad , that by not vote with the Government today I be against peace : how dare they ? I will tell they what I be on the side of . I be on the side of basic humanity . I be on the side of those who want to bring consensus . I be on the side of the israeli community , the palestinian community and the jewish , muslim and christian community . this be a tragedy that affect the whole world , and I say to this Government : do well . I support the amendment in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and wish to speak specifically to amendment 7 and 3 . this Bill be introduce pursuant to a conservative manifesto commitment at the last general election , " to ban public body from impose their own direct or indirect boycott , disinvestment or sanction campaign against foreign country . " it be important to note that the wording of that commitment be not country - specific . it be agnostic . but it be very clear from the debate thus far , most particularly on Second Reading but also today , that the measure contain in the Bill be aim primarily at the BDS campaign that have for some two decade target the state of Israel . this be quite proper . foreign policy in this country , as other hon . member have say , should be determine by the Government of this country , not by local authority or other public body . the Bill be broadly draw , except in one respect , which paradoxically rob it of its breadth . it contain a specific measure to prevent any attempt at a later date to modify its provision in respect of the conduct of the Government of Israel in relation to the territory of Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the occupy Golan Heights . it be clear from the Secretary of State ' s remark on Second Reading that the principal mischief that the Government intend to target be the undoubted evil of antisemitism and antisemitic behaviour , which have be among the most regrettable — in fact , deplorable — consequence of the BDS campaign . clamp down on antisemitism be obviously important . indeed , it be essential . no one would dispute that it be a good thing . in fact , give current event in and close to Gaza — and , indeed , on the street of London — do everything possible to prevent it be very much a priority . it be more than arguable that in the case of public body , there be a legislative vehicle for do that already , in the shape of the Equality Act 2010 , most particularly section 149 , which impose a " public sector equality duty " on such body , require they to pay " due regard to the need to foster good relation between person " of different religion , ethnicity and nationality . however , the Government have decide that the Equality Act be insufficient and have decide to go far by effectively outlaw the activity of the BDS movement in relation to Israel only , use this Bill as the vehicle . that be not a country - agnostic ambition of the sort envisage in the manifesto commitment . this be a broad Bill with one particularly anomalous element . as such , it throw up problem , which the amendment seek to rectify . amendment 7 address the problem that arise under clause 3 ( 5 ) , which provide that " the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may , by regulation , specify a country or territory as one in relation to which section 1 do not apply . " — in other word , permit a public body to make a procurement or investment decision in such a way as to express political or moral disapproval of the conduct of a foreign state . clause 3 ( 7 ) , however , go on to provide that such regulation may not specify Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories or the occupy Golan Heights . the effect of clause 3 ( 7 ) , therefore , be to make it absolutely clear that the sole purpose of this Bill be to give total and unique protection to Israel from BDS activity . I do not believe that it should be necessary to state that in the Bill . there may well be future circumstance in which it would be appropriate and desirable for public body to seek to express disapproval of the conduct of a foreign state . if any regulation be make permit such conduct , they would self - evidently be do in circumstance in which they be approve of by the Government . however , except Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the occupied Golan Heights from the ministerial power to make such regulation be a very strange approach . in the first place , it be not , as I have say , country neutral , which it should be . the absence of neutrality may indeed cause offence to people from other country around the world , not least those moderate islamic state that be do their very good at the moment to try to defuse the tension that have arise in the middle east . moreover , it create an unacceptable equivalence between the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights , both of which be arguably illegally occupy and be certainly in the view of the Government in the case of the opt illegally settle , and that of the sovereign territory of Israel itself . that be a matter , I be afraid , that be likely to attract significant international criticism as it may well put the United Kingdom in breach of its obligation under UN Security Council resolution 2334 . be find to be in breach of that resolution be not something that the Government should be happy to risk . secondly , that exception be frankly perplexing . it mean that if at some future time the Government be to decide to show disapproval of the action of the state of Israel , a Cabinet Minister would not be able to do so without launch stand - alone primary legislation . how can that possibly be a sensible approach ? and why be it necessary ? be Secretaries of State and Cabinet Office Ministers so capricious , so inclined to engage in frolic of their own , that they will pursue measure that be not approve of by the Government ? be they not trust by the Government to behave responsibly , and , if not , why be they member of the Government at all ? the provision be illogical , unnecessary and potentially damaging to the interest of the United Kingdom and its reputation and I believe that the amendment be therefore entirely right . amendment 3 seek to remove clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) , which constitute a perplexing and unacceptable constraint on free speech . if decision maker be prevent from make a particular investment or procurement decision because of the provision of the Bill , if indeed it be enact , that should be the end of the matter . there be no good reason in a free country why they should be preclude from say what they would have do be it not against the law to do so . this be a Conservative Government . conservative believe in and value free speech . indeed , the Government have recently legislate to protect freedom of speech under the law in the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , which make this provision all the more anomalous . I find myself in the extraordinary position of agree entirely with the remark of the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) in this regard . this be a deeply un - Conservative measure and I believe that the amendment be right and that the provision should go . I thank all member who have contribute to this debate for the thought and care that they have give to the legislation before we . I appreciate that we be debate these measure at a sensitive time and that , across the House , people will place different emphasis on aspect of the legislation and the broad issue with which it deal . let I be clear : I have respect for everyone who have speak and the argument that they have make . where there be disagreement , it be in the context of everyone in this House be unite in their horror of terrorism , their desire for peace and their belief in a two - state solution . we be seek in the Bill to give effect to a manifesto commitment , as my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) have just point out . the Bill be introduce early this year . indeed , it complete its Committee stage under the careful and thoughtful stewardship of the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , with contribution from all side of merit , thought and care . of course , those debate take place before the horrific event of 7 October , to which so many colleague in this debate have refer . it be important to remember — I do not think that anyone in the House can forget — that on 7 October we see the large loss of jewish life since the holocaust . that atrocity be perpetrate by terrorist from Hamas whose aim be very clear and very simple : the elimination of the jewish state , the elimination of jewish life . whatever the background belief or origin of those jewish life , they be to be exterminate . More than 200 hostage be still be hold by Hamas in Gaza . across the House , we grieve for they and their family . I thank in particular the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) and for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , with whom I have be in touch , who have be work very hard to ensure that their constituent be release and bring home . I also thank the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , who join I and many member from all party at a vigil in Trafalgar Square on Sunday to call for the return of those hostage . we also sympathise across the House with the innocent people of Gaza , and with all those palestinian people who have suffer . we recognise that many of the innocent people in Gaza be hostage too . they be hostage of Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad , and the other terrorist organisation that operate within that territory . it be vital at all time that we draw a distinction between those who suffer in Gaza and those who be perpetrate suffering in the name of terrorism . I be very conscious that we be debate these issue against that backdrop , but it be important that we look at the principle behind the Bill . I also thank our friend , the ambassador of the state of Israel , who be here in the Gallery to listen to our consideration . she and other ambassador have be work with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure that every hostage be release back to their jewish home with their family . it be important to recognise what the Bill do not do . a number of legitimate concern be express that actually do not reflect what be in the Bill and what the Bill be intend to achieve . the Bill do not prevent any individual from articulate their support for the BDS campaign , or indeed any particular policy that the BDS campaign put forward . it simply prevent public body and public money be use to advance that case . any of we as individual have a total right to freedom of speech . however offensive or difficult some of the word that some utter might be , free speech be not affect by the Bill . the Bill also do not prevent human right consideration from be take into account by local authority . the Bill make it clear that legitimate human right consideration , provide that they be non - country - specific , should be take into account . I note the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) about animal welfare . if specific human right consideration need to be add to the Bill , we will consider that in the Lords . I also note the comment make by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . we want to ensure that there be a robust way of ensure that local authority can uphold human right on a non - country - specific basis . I note some of the concern express about the impact on the local government pension scheme . let I stress again that there be no damage to the fiduciary duty that trustee of the scheme will have to uphold in ensure that they secure the good value on their investment for their member . what the Bill do do be deal with the broad principle that foreign policy should be reserve to this House . it be important to stress that when other public body take a stand on foreign policy , they risk vitiate the power of both the Government and the House to achieve goal for the benefit of the United Kingdom and risk create specific community tension . talk of specific community tension take we , of course , to the specific menace that be the BDS movement . it be of course possible for local government to consider adopt boycott in a variety of way , but the truth be that if we look at local government and , as my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) point out , at the devolved Administrations , the only country that have be single out so far for boycott , divestment and sanction campaign have be Israel . let we not hide from that fact . the reason for that be that the BDS campaign be in itself antisemitic . it be not exercise disapproval of some particular foreign policy or domestic policy decision of the state of Israel ; it be say that Israel should not exist . it be instructive , though not easy , to look at the communication that the BDS movement have issue on social medium since 7 October — not one word of sympathy for the israeli people in their suffering . indeed , what it have say on social medium , when talk of those death , be that " their blood " — the blood of the jewish people ; the israeli people kill — " be on the hand of the israeli government . " the BDS campaign have say that the " root cause " of this violence — the death on 7 October — " must be acknowledge … Israel as the occupier . " the BDS movement have cite a variety of politician as what they call " partner in genocide " : Rishi Sunak , Joe Biden , Olaf Scholz and Ursula von der Leyen . of course , the BDS campaign also continue to repeat the lie — the blood libel — that it be the israeli Defence Forces who be responsible for the tragic loss of life at the Al - Ahli Hospital in Gaza . that be what we be deal with , and I be very grateful to the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) for make clear the horror that he and so many of we hold for the BDS movement . there be an argument that perhaps this Bill be divisive and it be not want , particularly by many voice in the jewish community . there be some voice in the jewish community who have concern , and we have listen to they , but the representative body that speak for Britain ' s jewish community be unite in support this Bill . they include the Board of Deputies , which contain representative of every jewish constituency , jewish organisation and every jewish community , be it secular or religious , and the jewish Leadership Council , which contain representative of every political and faith tradition within the jewish community . we have hear reference make to the increase we have see — it be horrific to think about it — in antisemitic incident in recent week . indeed , the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) make reference to the Community Security Trust . I have be in contact with it this afternoon and it send I this message : " BDS have a chilling impact on Jews , a modern reminder of anti - jewish boycotts . it also serve to legitimise the shunning of Jews from ' decent ' society . and have be shun … that ' s a half way house to all manner of more abusive and physical outcome . " so we respect the diversity of voice , but when we have such unity from those who speak for the jewish community — indeed , the jewish community — of the UK , when they be so clear that this legislation be in the interest of community cohesion , fight antisemitism and make the UK a safe house for everyone , we should treat their word with respect . the point have be make that the specific mention in the Bill of Israel could perhaps , in some case , engender a great degree of polarisation and antisemitism . I know that the people who make that argument make it sincerely , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) point out , sometimes we just have to stand up for what be right . if there be people who be provoke as a result of that , it be regrettable but we should not shy away from tell the truth . we should not shy away from say that what have be go on with Gaza ' s genocidal campaign against the jewish people be something that we as a country need to stand against . when the BDS campaign have in its leadership the leader of Hamas , we need to be clear about this evil and this menace . that be not just my argument ; it be also the argument of the jewish community organisation that I cite early , include the jewish Leadership Council . in its submission to the Committee consider this Bill , it say : " the inclusion of clause 3 ( 7 ) recognise this unique nature of the BDS campaign against Israel " . it state its belief that if that provision be excise , as one amendment seek to achieve , " the very purpose of the bill would be undermine . such a change would … convert a bill aim to prevent anti - Israel BDS campaign from abuse our public body into a tool to facilitate it . " it be debatable , of course , whether this be the right way forward — the jewish Leadership Council be very clear that it be — but I simply ask : after everything we have see in the past three week , if this House be now to remove a specific protection for the state of Israel at this time , what message would it send ? I submit to every Member of this House that we should listen to the jewish community and the clarity with which they speak . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the tone he have adopt so far , as it be important that we adopt the correct tone in this debate . do he recognise the concern that not just Israel be mention in the clause ? this be also about why the Government have include the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights . that have also arouse some comment , debate and criticism . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point and appreciate the concern that he articulate , which be share by a number of people , but the way in which the Bill be design make it clear that there be a separation between Israel , the opt and the Golan Heights . as the jewish Leadership Council point out in its evidence to the Committee on which the hon . Gentleman serve with distinction : " this clause recognise this distinction " — it absolutely do — " and close a loophole to ensure public body can not remain tool of the BDS movement against Israel . " it be also the case that , by make that distinction , the clause — and the Bill overall — reserve to the UK Government the role of maintain , as we do , our absolute commitment to a two - state solution . as frame , then , the Bill be absolutely not in breach of international law . it enable the UK Government to speak with one voice on behalf of the entire United Kingdom in our determination to secure a two - state solution , however distant that prospect may be at the moment . I be interested in clause 3 , which specifically state that the exception to any prohibition be : " ( a ) Israel … ( b ) the Occupied Palestinian Territories , or … ( c ) the Occupied Golan Heights . " what be the distinction between Israel and those two that mean that we can still hold the Government of the day accountable for illegal settler occupation in those two occupy area ? the fact that they be list separately and individually affirm the absolutely principal purpose of treat they individually and separately . be — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , but if Opposition Front bencher think it be appropriate to smile , laugh and joke about this issue , I regret that . if people disagree in a principled fashion , I respect that . but the key thing be that we know there be people who have attempt to use language relate to what happen in the occupy territory — indeed , the former Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , cite a number of example of this — specifically to seek to target people on the basis of their jewish identity , and that be wrong . there be another point . if we accept , as everybody who have speak today have apparently accept , that the BDS campaign be a pernicious , antisemitic campaign , we should know that it be pernicious and antisemitic whether it be against the state of Israel or against product that come from the occupy Palestinian Territories . the BDS campaign should be outlaw wherever it take place . it be very simple . my hon . friend be absolutely right and , indeed , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North again make it clear that in France and Germany the BDS campaign be outlaw in the way that we seek to do here . no one deny for a moment that France and Germany , under Emmanuel Macron and Olaf Scholz , be value partner for peace and upholder of international law . on international agreement , do my right hon . friend agree that , give that the United Kingdom be party to a series of World Trade Organisation framework agreement , such as the general procurement agreement , the UK have a duty not to discriminate in its trade practice , and that to permit public body to engage in antisemitic BDS activity would undermine our international agreement ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and I thank he for his thoughtful contribution . I recognise the sincerity and commitment of my opposite number , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . both she and her predecessor , the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , have be brave and forthright in call out antisemitism wherever it occur . I thank she for her work and the conversation we have have formally and informally on this issue . it be for that reason that I say , with respect , that I disagree . I understand the intent of the proposal from Labour ' s Front - Bench team , but I disagree , because — as they acknowledge in their own amendment for ensure that people can not adopt , through an ambiguous form of word , a means of prevent people from access kosher or halal food — there be the potential , as lawyer have be clear , for an ambiguous form of word to be use in order , without mention Israel by name , to make it clear that a boycott campaign be direct against Israel . I think we all have a duty to be clear about that . the BDS movement be clear in what it uphold : an evil campaign not just to eliminate the state of Israel but to target Palestinians who work with israeli institution . it have be crystal clear in recent week in its total failure — not just a failure , but a conscious desire not to express a shred of sympathy or regret for the loss of innocent life . it be clear about what it want to do to sow division . it be clear that its action lead to , and have always lead to , an increase in antisemitic attack . those who speak for the jewish community in this country have be clear as well . they respect the diversity and plurality of opinion in this House . they respect the motive , they respect the feeling , they respect the strong emotion that these issue engage . but they have also be clear that they wish this legislation to pass , they wish it to pass unamended , and they wish it to pass now . I honour they in their suffering , and it be for that reason that I urge the House to reject the amendment and to pass the Bill . do Chris Stephens wish to press new clause 1 to a division ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . clause 3 - Exceptions Amendment propose : 14 , page 2 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . — ( Angela Rayner . ) this amendment would remove provision allow Ministers to amend the Schedule , via regulation , to add a description of decision or consideration , or amend or remove consideration add under previous regulation . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 200 , Noes 273 . question accordingly negative . More than three hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on consideration , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . Amendment propose : 13 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) section 1 do not apply to a decision which have be make in accordance with a statement of Policy relate to Human Rights . ( 4b ) a statement of policy relate to Human Rights — ( a ) be a public authority ' s policy criterion relate to disinvestment in case concern contravention of human right ; and ( b ) must be apply consistently by the public authority to all foreign country . ( 4C ) within 60 day of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish , and lie before Parliament , guidance on the form , content and application of statement for the purpose of this section ( 4d ) public authority must have regard to the guidance reference in subsection ( 4C ) when devise a statement . " — ( Angela Rayner . ) this amendment would exempt public body from the prohibition in section 1 , where the decision have be make in accordance with a statement of Policy relate to Human Rights . a statement may not single out individual nation , but would have to be apply consistently , and in accordance with guidance publish by the Secretary of State . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Karen Buck Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 197 , Noes 276 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 7 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . — ( Kit Malthouse . ) this amendment would remove the prohibition on the Government specify Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories or the Occupied Golan Heights as a country or territory to which the prohibition on boycotts do not apply , mean they be treat just as all other country and territory . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Richard Graham Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones David Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Kelly Tolhurst Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Desmond Swayne Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam cat Maria Caulfield Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 207 , Noes 269 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 - relate prohibition on statement Amendment propose : 28 , in clause 4 , page 3 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) nothing in this section require any act or omission that conflict with the right and freedom guarantee under the Human Rights Act 1998 . " — ( Chris Stephens . ) this amendment would ensure that any act or omission under the " gagging clause " in clause 4 would not conflict with the Human Rights Act 1998 ( HRA ) , in particular , Article 10 ( right to freedom of expression ) and article 9 ( freedom of thought , conscience and religion ) of the echr as incorporate by the HRA . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gavin Newlands Peter Grant Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 197 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . Bill to be read the third time tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Town and Country Planning ( England ) that the draft Town and Country Planning ( fee for Applications , Deemed Applications , Requests and Site Visits ) ( England ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 20 July , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . order . before we come to the next item of business , I have a short announcement to make . early today , in response to a point of order about a BBC story regard the item of business we be about to deal with , reference be make to Mr Speaker receive legal advice . in fact , the reference should have be to procedural advice rather than legal advice . Independent Expert Panel Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 150d ) , that this House : ( 1 ) take note of the report of the Independent Expert Panel , the Conduct of Mr Peter Bone MP , HC 1904 , and the recommendation for sanction of a suspension from the service of the House for six week ; ( 2 ) take note of the subsequent report of the Committee on Standards make on 19 October pursuant to Standing Order No . 150E and agree with the recommendation that Mr Bone should be suspend from the service of the House for six week , to run concurrently with the suspension above ; and ( 3 ) accordingly suspend Mr Peter Bone from the service of the House for six week , namely from Wednesday 25 October to Tuesday 5 December . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) question agree to . petition - DVLA Applications in Post Offices this be a petition of the resident of the United Kingdom who be concerned that post office will no long provide customer with access to Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency service . the petitioner say that post office be vital in access DVLA service and provide a service to 6 million people . senior citizen rely on post office to renew their licence , which have to be renew every three year after the age of 70 , and citizen who be unable to use the internet require help and advice from post office staff when complete dvla application . the petitioner say that many post office provide this service may risk closure if customer be not able to renew licence or vehicle tax . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to recognise the importance of DVLA service remain accessible from post office , and to renew the contract with Post Office Ltd so that customer have a choice of in - person or online renewal . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Post Offices be vital in access in DVLA service per year ; note that the Post Office provide a vital service to 6 million people who use the Post Office network for access DVLA service per year ; far that senior citizen rely on Post Offices to renew their licence , which have to be renew every three year after the age of 70 ; further note that citizen who be unable to use the internet require help and advice from Post Office staff when complete dvla application ; far declare that many Post Offices provide this service may risk closure if customer be not able to renew license or vehicle tax the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to recognise the importance of DVLA service remain accessible from Post Offices and to renew the contract with the Post Office Ltd so customer have a choice of in - person and online renewal . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002864 ] Petition - Development proposal at 21 High Trees Avenue I rise to present this petition object to the propose development at 21 High Trees Avenue in my constituency of Bournemouth East . I ask the Government , the Bristol Planning Inspectorate , Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council , and the developer to take notice of the size of this petition — over 270 signature — from local resident who have raise their concern relate to the inappropriate housing density for the area , the pressure on street parking and the increase risk of local flooding . I be pleased that this application have already be dismiss both by Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council and the Planning Inspectorate , but it be still subject to appeal . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government , the council and the Planning Inspectorate to uphold the original decision to refuse planning permission for this development . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the development proposal at 21 High Trees Avenue , Bournemouth under planning application 7 - 2022 - 212 - 10 b do not properly consider residential concern ; note that the development ' s height , impact on surface water , appearance , impact on parking and interference with resident be not properly consider during initial planning and at the Planning Inspectorate appeal by the developer . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petitioner and continue to take into account these concern if a challenge to the Planning Inspectorate be make within the 6 - week window now that the developer ' s appeal have be reject . ] [ p002868 ] I have to inform the House that I understand that the Lords do not insist on their amendment 102b to the Procurement Bill ( Lords ) . I also want to inform the House that I understand that the Lords do not insist on their amendment 22B , and that they have agree to our amendment 45C in lieu of their amendment 45 with regard to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . therefore , no further proceeding on those Bills will be necessary . International Rail Services : Kent Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) I be grateful for the chance to bring to the House an issue that be of huge importance not just to my constituent in Ashford , but to many people across the whole county of Kent , and indeed beyond : the withdrawal of the international service , which use to stop at Ashford and Ebbsfleet , but which be stop when the pandemic mean the temporary end of international travel , and which have not subsequently be restore by Eurostar . I know that my hon . friend the Minister will be aware of the successful history of the service , which have be run from Ashford since 1996 . it have contribute significantly to economic growth in the area , take advantage of the geographical proximity to the european mainland to drive economic development , and particularly inward investment . it also , of course , provide a large new leisure market , with people from across Kent have easy access to Disneyland Paris and , at other time of the year , quick journey to the ski slope . there be demonstrably huge potential for the Kent station . do my right hon . friend agree that the international train run from Ashford enhance connectivity , boost tourism , stimulate economic growth , promote cultural exchange and have environmental benefit for the coastal town across Kent and east Sussex , include beautiful Hastings and Rye ? my hon . friend be completely right . as she will have hear , I make the point that this be of great interest to people not just across Kent but beyond . certainly , she be a great champion for Hastings , and I agree that the effect of high - speed rail , in this case international rail , can spread prosperity and the opportunity that travel can bring far and wide from the station . my right hon . friend make the case very well about the opportunity for people in Sussex and the coastal town , but do he agree that that also apply to people in the north of Kent and the south - east London area , as it be still much quick for they to access Ashford International for those journey ? absolutely . I be glad that my hon . friend have make that point , because of course travel into central London for St Pancras be often a real pain for people from the outskirt of London , and certainly for those from the more rural part of Kent . access to Ashford , where it be easy to drive , and to get there by train — and it be well connected — make it much easy to intersect with the international service . I be glad to have his constituent add to mine , and those of other colleague across Kent , as people who wish for Eurostar to restore the service . we have be through a minor version of the current impasse before . there be a time in 2007 when Eurostar withdraw the Brussels service from Ashford . a campaign over several year , which I be involve with alongside Ashford Borough Council and Kent County Council , and with the sympathetic support of Ministers in the Government at that time , succeed in persuade Eurostar that a business - base service allow a sensibly time journey from Ashford to Brussels in the morning and back in the evening be viable . that prove so successful that in 2015 a weekend Brussels service be add , as well as a new service to the south of France . I obviously accept that Eurostar be a private company and make its own commercial decision , but the UK Government have a legitimate and important role in influence those decision , not least in the specific case of Ashford station . in 2016 Eurostar introduce new rolling stock that demand a whole new signal system at Ashford station to allow the new train to stop there . that be fund at a cost of £ 8 . 5 million through the local growth fund . in other word , that be the UK taxpayer spending specifically so that Eurostar could continue to service Ashford . so far the return on that for the taxpayer have be exactly zero . by a terrible irony of timing , the work be complete at exactly the same time as the pandemic strike in the early month of 2020 and international service be suspend , so no train have ever take advantage of that spending . I appreciate that £ 8 . 5 million do not seem much in the context of the quantum of money that may not have be entirely prudently spend in recent year on the railway , but the point be that this be not a wasteful investment ; it be a good investment that , if utilise , would provide service that passenger want , and make well use of the exist railway infrastructure . have spend that taxpayer ' money , it be the Government ' s responsibility to see that it be well spend . I therefore hope and assume that the Minister will back my call for the Kent service to be resume . Eurostar ' s current position have evolve — not in a helpful direction . in September 2020 it say that no Kent service would stop before 2022 . in 2021 it say no service until 2023 . in 2022 it say no service until 2025 . my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) and I have meet Eurostar ' s representative , and I have meet they on a number of occasion with the relevant local authority . in every one of those meeting I would describe they as perfectly polite but completely obdurate . Eurostar be of course a commercial company whose contract be not determine by the same kind of franchise or concession model that national service have . its majority ownership be the french nationalise rail company SNCF , with a small stake for the belgian state rail company and the other 40 % own by private sector company . Eurostar have now merge with the Thalys group , and it be undoubtedly true that the pandemic deal it a very severe financial blow . to survive that blow it take on large amount of commercial debt that it have to repay . it say that it still have the long - term ambition to grow its service , but that for a variety of reason it can not do so at the moment . there be , however , two reason that make today ' s discussion particularly timely , because that low , difficult period identify by Eurostar be come to an end . the first reason be reveal in its own press release last June about its late financial result . it say : " we have turn the page on the Covid crisis and be now move towards a new chapter of build the new Eurostar group " . its earning before interest , taxis , depreciation and amortisation — ebitda in the jargon — be a record € 332 million . clearly it be now generate cash because it repay € 127 million of the debt that it incur during the pandemic . it be now evidently in a position to expand if it want to . the second reason it be timely to be have this discussion in public be the imminent arrival of a competitor to Eurostar in provide international service to the UK ; the Evolyn consortium say that it have a billion - pound project to buy an initial 12 train from Alstom and intend to start service in 2025 . at the moment , it , like Eurostar , be plan only capital city service , but the advent of competition mean that both company will have to seek advantage , and the free offer of station that be already build and rare to go be a potentially great advantage to either of they if they have the gumption to take it . obviously , as we have hear in discussion with Eurostar for a long time , station be useful only if there be passenger who want to use they , and we know that there be . I have hear the argument that anyone in Kent who want to travel to the continent will travel to St Pancras and start there . however , as we have hear in this debate , that argument do not wash with many people . apart from the nonsense of have someone catch a fast train to travel 60 mile north - west so that they can get on another fast train that travel south - east under the channel , we have to consider the expense of have to do that . at the margin , some people will be discourage from that . we know how strong this feeling be because my constituent have organise a petition along the line of what I be say this evening . in just a few week , more than 36 , 000 people have sign it and many more be do so every day . there be clearly ten of thousand of people in Kent , and many thousand more beyond Kent , who would prefer to travel from their local station , and I think it be incumbent on all of we to make that happen as soon as possible . in the light of that , I want to ask the Minister a number of specific question , the first of which be an overarch one : give that Eurostar profit be return and the Government have put taxpayer ' money into the Ashford signal so that Ashford service can return to 2016 level , what be the Government do to support the return of service to the Kent station ? the second relate to an environmental point . there be many study show that international rail travel be more sustainable than air travel . Eurostar itself claim that the carbon footprint of one flight be the equivalent of that of 13 Eurostar journey . as the Government be look for way to meet their welcome net zero target by 2050 , what be they do to expand the use of international rail as a more sustainable form of transport , especially as we know that there be significant capacity available , both on the line and on the train path through the tunnel ? there be no capacity constraint in this part of the rail network , so it would be good to use it as much as possible , for the good of the environment . be it not also the case that much of the electricity use on these train come from french nuclear power and so be some of the green power available ? yes , indeed . the rail network in our part of the world have be good at use the power that come from the interconnector . my right hon . friend be right to say that that add to the greenness of the travel and , in particular , the comparative advantage of international rail travel over international air travel . my third question be about the new custom arrangement that the EU have devise — and then delay . I note that the french Government have so much confidence in these arrangement that they have insist they should not be implement before the Paris Olympics next summer , but we must expect that the new EES — entry / exit system — will eventually arrive , and Eurostar have argue that the need for more check , and therefore more staff , be one reason why it can not yet contemplate reopen Ashford station . so what be the Government do to make sure that the EES system will not penalise rail traveller ? my fourth question be about the potential new entrant to the market . I appreciate that the proposal be in its early stage , but I assume that if it progress , the UK Government will need to give some authorisation for it to proceed , and that therefore the Government will need to be in detailed talk with the operator long before any service start run . will the Minister agree , in those talk , to put the case for the Kent station , not least as a way of make the new operation more viable ? my fifth and final question be about the wide issue of cross - channel traffic , which the Minister know be not only a huge economic positive for east Kent but , far too often , a huge social negative , as blockage at the port of Dover or at the tunnel lead to motorway issue and , at their bad , the gradual coagulation of traffic flow through surprisingly large part of Kent , some of they quite a long way from the coast . do the Minister agree that get more passenger on the train will help to relieve pressure at busy period on car traffic through the port of Dover and Eurotunnel ? as a final thought , I of course appreciate that not all the lever for the decision be in the Minister ' s hand , but I know that my constituent , and many other around Kent and the wide south - east , would appreciate know that central Government be on their side in the crusade to bring back the international rail service to Kent . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) for secure the debate on this important issue , which be very close to my heart ; I be a constituency neighbour to my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , who make an intervention , and my right hon . friend be of course just across the border from I in Kent . my right hon . friend have work tirelessly in campaign on this matter on behalf of the people of Ashford and the wide Kent area , and I salute he for his work . as I mention , as the Member for a constituency that be not too far away from his , I share my right hon . friend ' s disappointment that Ebbsfleet and Ashford station do not currently receive international service . I fully recognise the important benefit that high - speed international rail service provide for the area and community they serve , include for people and business in Kent and its surround . I should state that I be a frequent user of the service , have come across the coastline from East Sussex to Kent , and I would like to be able to do that again . some 18 month ago , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) and I meet the chief executive of Eurostar , and to say that it be frustrating be an understatement . it be frankly madness that we have international station at Ebbsfleet and Ashford but people can not travel from they internationally . will my hon . friend the Minister do all he can , through his Department , to ensure that international service be restore both at Ashford and at Ebbsfleet in my constituency ? I can provide my hon . friend with that assurance . I have a real passion for this subject and be particularly keen to see those international station become international station again . I praise my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford for his work on Ashford station , and I praise my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) for his work on behalf of his constituent for the return of Ebbsfleet station . both member work incredibly hard and I be keen to see that work reward . high - speed international rail service provide major benefit in term of the connection they provide and the fact that they be environmentally friendly link to our european neighbour , as my right hon . Friend point out . let I give some context . before the pandemic , Eurostar be carry record passenger number , with more than 11 million passenger per year , and hold a market share of around 80 % of journey between London and each of Paris and Brussels . give the significant benefit , and recognise that rail be currently a significantly low - carbon option compare with other mode of transport for international travel , with emission as much as 80 % low on some route compare with air equivalent , it be in our interest to ensure the long - term sustainability of the service . unfortunately , as we know , the travel industry be severely impact by covid - 19 , face unprecedented challenge , and the sector continue to manage and respond to the impact of that today . eurostar passenger number collapse to 5 % of 2019 level for much of the pandemic , and revenue be cut by around 95 % for 15 month in 2020 - 2021 . Eurostar therefore make difficult decision to cut service and consolidate its service offer . that be an entirely commercial decision take by the operator . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford note , Eurostar be a non - franchised operator , so it do not receive UK Government subsidy . during the pandemic , the Government work very closely with Eurostar — as we do with the travel industry more broadly — to support it in access the cross - economy support scheme for which it be eligible . indeed , I recall that the Transport Committee — when I be wear my previous hat — lean strongly into that particular issue and do its good to ensure that Eurostar have that support . that be why I be now look for Eurostar ' s support in return , as I wear a different hat . the Department engage extensively with Eurostar throughout that period to consider the specific challenge face the company , but the company ultimately secure financing on commercial term from its lender and shareholder . I , too , be very disappointed to see that , despite a strong recovery in demand for travel , Eurostar be yet to reinstate service from Ebbsfleet and Ashford . since I become rail Minister , I have personally raise that with Eurostar , make it absolutely clear that I be keen to see those service return as soon as it be possible and commercially viable for the company to do so . I agree with my right hon . friend that there be some good argument for why that commercial rationale exist . however , I recognise that it be an entirely commercial decision for Eurostar , give that international service operate on a solely commercial basis . my right hon . friend raise the entry and exit system . I recognise that there be challenge at the border , as he note . the Home Office be the lead Department on that , but my Department be support engagement with our european partner and portal , include Eurostar , to help reduce the impact as much as possible . indeed , that be another matter that I recall the Transport Committee raise as one of concern with certain date loom — my right hon . Friend note that they have be move . I will certainly make the case for Kent station when we have those discussion with our european partner , as he ask of I . I note my right hon . friend ' s important point concern the financial contribution from taxpayer and local partner to ensure that Eurostar ' s new train could serve the station . I recognise his disappointment give the year of work to enhance the station and the unfortunate timing in the light of the pandemic . I back his call for that investment to deliver a return for UK taxpayer . however , thank to that investment , Ashford remain well place to accommodate any modern high - speed train that may be use by Eurostar , or any new entrant seeking to compete with Eurostar , in future . on that note , it be important to highlight the prospect of great competition to Eurostar in the future , which could be beneficial for passenger in Kent , depend on commercial decision take by any new entrant . as my right hon . Friend make clear , at least one potential competitor have publicise its ambition to launch service to directly compete with Eurostar in the come year . I have be clear that competition on the railway can deliver real benefit for passenger by provide great choice and low price . it would also be an important step in improve the prospect of service return to Kent station . my right hon . friend be absolutely right : there be capacity on that line . I would dearly love to see another operator bring competition and stop at those Kent station . department official be engage regularly with infrastructure manager and european partner to discuss the potential for new service and route , particularly to address the unique requirement of operate through the channel tunnel . they also stand ready to work with and support potential new entrant through those challenge . indeed , just today , I be talk about open access and what we can do to bring more competitor on . I will ensure that that be not just domestic : if I have my way , it will be international as well . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford again for raise this important matter in the House . I also recognise the contribution and work of the other member who have speak : my hon . friend the Members for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) and for Hastings and Rye , and my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) . like my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford and all those who have speak , I be keen to see international service return to Kent as soon as possible and when it be commercially viable . my official and I will work tirelessly on this matter , and will continue to press for this change in my dealing with our industry partner . question put and agree to . House adjourn .