on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in the wee hour of 9 June 2017 , I watch on as the most talented , formidable and consequential politician of his generation — a man who have represent the people of Banff and Buchan , Aberdeenshire East and Gordon , a man who have serve for two term as the First Minister of Scotland — lose his parliamentary seat for the first time in 30 year . it be a moment I will never forget , not because of the nature of his defeat but for what happen next , because within just a few moment , Alex Salmond take to the podium and give a speech that , despite all the despair that those of we in the SNP feel in the room that night , make we feel 10 ft tall . he give we back the hope that thing would get well , and would get well quickly . Rabbie Burns once write : " the heart ay ' s the part ay that make we right or wrang . " Alex give all of we in the SNP the belief that what we feel in our heart be worth fight for — the belief that we could one day become an independent nation . Alex Salmond take we so very close to make that belief a reality . at this time of profound shock and sorrow , I send my heartfelt personal condolence to Alex ' s wife Moira , his wide family , his friend and his legion of fan across the nationalist movement and within the Alba party itself . it be of great personal sorrow to I that Alex Salmond will not live to see Scotland become an independent nation . the challenge for all of we now in the nationalist movement be to make sure that we put good his legacy and deliver the future he so badly fight for throughout his distinguished parliamentary career . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I know that colleague from across the House will join I today in express our shock and sadness at the sudden passing of the right honourable Alex Salmond . he be a Member of this House for 25 year and of the Scottish Parliament for 11 year , and he be of course First Minister of Scotland for seven year . his impact wherever he serve be profound . my thought and sympathy be first and foremost with his family and friend and especially his wife Moira , who have already be mention . member might not be aware that the Scotland Office bring Moira and Alex together ; they meet first as colleague in that Department before marry in 1981 . my thought be also with those whose relationship with he have break down in recent year and those who be find this time difficult as they deal with a range of emotion . it be no secret that some of his happy period as a politician be spend in this place , where he make alliance that may to some have seem surprising . my thought today be particularly with the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( Sir David Davis ) , who I know have lose a close friend , and with Alex ' s SNP colleague . in the short period during which our career in this place overlap , I be always impressed with Alex ' s formidable oratory and debate style . no member from any part of this House be give an easy ride . he sit on the third Bench — where the leader of the SNP , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) be today — during the passage of the Scotland Act 2016 , chuntere and banter in my ear every time I stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box . his love of lively discussion extend beyond this Chamber , and I be always keen to keep the topic on our share passion for Heart of midlothian football club , rather than constitutional matter . it be impossible to overstate the impact that Alex have on Scotland and our politic . after half a century of involvement , from student activist to First Minister , whether you agree or disagree with his political objective , there be no deny the rigour and commitment with which he pursue his goal . that commitment see Alex lead the Scottish National party for a total of 20 year , take it from a small political movement to the party of government in Scotland . in do so , he secure a referendum on scottish independence in 2014 , an achievement that would surely have be scarcely believable for a student activist who join the SNP in the early 1970 and perhaps even for the Alex Salmond who first lead the party in the early 1990 . as someone firmly on the opposite side of that debate , I know that the result of the referendum be a source of huge disappointment to Alex . it be testament to his conviction in the cause that he continue to campaign for scottish independence with the same passion in Parliament , in the SNP , in the Alba party and in community across Scotland throughout the past decade . he have leave an indelible mark on scottish politic and public life . I know that many in the independence movement and beyond will miss he . I once again send the deep sympathy on behalf of the UK Government to all his family and friend at this difficult time . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Opposition , I would also like to pay my tribute to the right honourable Alex Salmond . as other have say , despite political difference , we be all shock and sadden to hear the news on Saturday of Alex Salmond ' s sudden passing . he and I be both elect to the Scottish Parliament in 2007 , and although we disagree on many of the big issue of the day , not least the question of independence for Scotland , we all respect his dedication to public service as a Member of the Scottish Parliament , a Member of Parliament and as First Minister of Scotland . he be passionate , formidable , impressive and hugely charismatic . Alex Salmond be undoubtedly a giant in Scottish and United Kingdom politic . my sincere sympathy go to his wife Moira and to his wide family , in particular his sister Gail , who live in Hawick in my constituency in the Scottish Borders . my thought and prayer be with they all . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . Alex Salmond be not just a parliamentary colleague of mine ; for a number of year , when we live in Aberdeenshire , he be also my own Member of Parliament . I confess that I never actually vote for he , but that do allow I to see , and hear from all those who deal with he in the north - east of Scotland , that he be genuinely a byword for energy and commitment in represent the interest of his Banff and Buchan constituent . it be not until I be elect here in 2001 that I get to know Alex personally . he and I both represent constituency heavily dependent on the fishing industry , which be then face an existential crisis , as cod stock in the North sea collapse . at that time , we all have to be expert in the spawn stock biomass of North sea cod , and Alex , with his natural head for figure , could sometimes leave everyone in the room breathless as he interrogate the so - call expert about the statistical basis of what they be propose to do . the survival of a scottish whitefish industry today be in no small part as a result of his effort then . it be also in that first Parliament that I meet and get to know Alex ' s wife Moira . I do not think it be speak ill to say that Alex could divide a room ; Moira , on the other hand , be someone about whom I have never hear anyone say a bad word . she have always be unfailingly warm and friendly . her devotion to Alex be total and obvious to I from the first moment I meet she . so it be to Moira Salmond today that my thought turn . I can hardly imagine the sense of loss that she must be feel . to Moira and the rest of Alex ' s family I send my condolence and those of my party as we mourn the passing of Alex Salmond — a man whose like we may never see again . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . the phrase , " end of an era " , be often bandy about , but Alex ' s parting really do feel like the end of an era . we be not friend ; we have a professional relationship , I would say . sometimes it be cordial , sometimes it be less so , because we disagree on some pretty fundamental issue . I always respect Alex as one of the most formidable and , indeed , ruthless political operator of our generation — I think he would welcome that epitaph . Alex ' s great political triumph be to be both establishment and anti - establishment at the same time , which be a pretty difficult trick to pull off . while he be at one moment First Minister of Scotland , he be also agitate to break up the United Kingdom . while at one minute he be highly critical of the Conservatives , he be also rely on conservative msp in the Scottish Parliament to sustain his minority Administration . one of my job when I be first elect in 2005 be to keep an eye on Alex in the Lobby , because he have a habit of encourage chat with new conservative mp . his line be that if Scotland be independent , that would be great for they because there would be a perpetual Conservative Government in England . we have recently see that that argument be slightly flawed , but I have to ensure that colleague be not tempt by it . Alex be skilled debater , and that be very often demonstrate in this Chamber , despite his express wish to leave it . he have an authenticity and a common touch that be so often absent from modern politic . that be always very evident when one see he with his constituent . I absolutely share the view of the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on Moira Salmond . in my dealing with she , she be always a very charming and supportive spouse , and my heart go out to she and to Alex ' s friend and family at this very difficult time . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . it may come as a surprise to member that I have a photograph of Alex Salmond in my back hall . that be because a long time ago , he , the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) and I be all member of the Students ' Representative Council of St Andrews University . it be a sleepy organisation in which we debate this and that . then , with a flash and a bang , like mephistophele appear in " Doctor Faustus " , he be there from nowhere — a fully equip , fully armed , formidable young politician , still in his late teen . that come as a shock to we all . have debate with he in student debate , I can tell the House that if he turn that laser eye on you and fire a verbal sally , it go straight through you , and then straight through the wall behind . he be a superb debater — I have never see his like . what be fascinating about he be that he be a fully develop politician so early in life . he know exactly what he be about and be determined to achieve his end . I be also briefly in the Scottish Parliament , as the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) allude to . in 2007 , at a reception at the Signet library in Edinburgh , he say , " Jamie , I want a word with you . " he corner I in one of those half - moon - shape alcove and tell I very forcibly how support the SNP Government in 2007 would lead to a revival of the Liberal party in the Scottish Parliament . Mention have rightly be make of his widow , Moira , whom I find to be a very nice person indeed . she once stop I in the Royal Mile , shortly after Alex have become First Minister , to say that she have get that dreadful upright piano out of the drawing room at Bute House . she just want I to know that . my thought be not only with Alex ' s family but with his circle of friend , to whom he mean a very great deal . our condolence should go to his family and to his friend as well . Charles Stewart Parnell make his name in history , and I believe that Alex Salmond will do so in exactly the same way , for many year to come .