thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I in this extremely important debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on their touching and move speech . I really be proud to be one of the scottish delegate . in the tradition of maiden speech , I begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Deidre Brock , who represent the constituency for nine year — the first woman to do so . I wish she and her team well in their future endeavour . I would also like to pay tribute to Mark Lazarowicz , who represent the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continue to advocate for human right , asylum seeker and the environment . the newly extend boundary once again include Muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represent by the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) . this part of the constituency hold a special place in my heart as it neighbour West Pilton , where I live and where my stepchildren go to school and attend Greater Pilton childcare centre during the 1990 . it be a groundbreaking facility provide family with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that I hope we can learn from and replicate . when we live in West Pilton , our flat be riddle with damp . we have to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litre of water daily . our child ' s health suffer , and paint over black mould be normal . we be lucky : we be eventually able to move . however , the flat be still there , and I would suggest that the issue remain too . housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofit home . access to safe and secure home be a fundamental right , and although it be a devolved issue in Scotland , we must learn lesson and work together across government to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient home for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . I also place on record my sincere thank to Malcolm Chisholm , who help we at this time . he represent Edinburgh North and Leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he move to the Scottish Parliament , before stand down in 2016 . he be why I join the Labour party . his reputation and integrity , his achievement and his passion for the people of Edinburgh North and Leith be rightly still recognise , and indeed he remain an inspiration to I and many other in our community and beyond . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think the record may have to be correct as I have hear many hon . member from across the House make an error by declare that their constituency be the great in the country . they be of course mistaken . as many of those who have already visit will know , Edinburgh North and Leith can surely claim that accolade . from our amazing shop on Princes Street , George Street and the new St James Quarter , as well as our fantastic independent store , we have the good retail across the country . we have world - class restaurant , caf é s and bar — from the Johnnie Walker whisky experience , which I be pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , to the Lind & Lime gin distiller , where my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be welcome , and the Port of Leith Distillery , the country ' s first vertical distillery . I extend a welcome to all my hon . friend to visit and join I for a dram . Edinburgh North and Leith be steep in history from Calton hill to the New Town , another UNESCO world heritage site , and onwards to Stockbridge , the home of Golden Wonder crisp ; Newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and Western Harbour , reclaim from the sea . we be home to the Royal Yacht Britannia and the Royal Botanic Garden in Inverleith . Leith link have claim to be the birthplace of golf . and although the stadium be just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , Hibs , be Leith to the core . I can confirm that , as the song suggest , there be indeed much " Sunshine on Leith " , although not always on match day . our famous Port of Leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — have see the coming and going of ship from all over the world , bring with they story , good and people that have shape our identity . the historic landmark remind we of our rich heritage and the importance of preserve it for the future . this be evidence through our proud industrial and political history , be where Rose ' s lime juice be invent to prevent sailor from get scurvy , and where Salvesen have a whaling business . in the present day , our port be reinvent itself for the next generation , with the green energy job of the future and with business such as Vestas and nearby Nova deliver wind and tidal energy . stitch into our community be so many site of natural beauty , with the Water of Leith flow through the heart of our constituency and be hug by the firth of Forth . with the world ' s large art festival on our doorstep , we house the Scottish National Portrait Gallery , Leith theatre , Customs House , North Edinburgh Arts , Edinburgh playhouse and the new Dunard concert centre , which be currently under construction . alongside our film and music studio , we be home to many author , artist , musician and poet . I could go on , and I possibly have for too long already , but this be by no mean an exhaustive list , and it do not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . I have yet to mention what make Edinburgh North and Leith truly great : simply , it be our people . be elect to this House to represent my home and my community be truly the honour of my life . I would like to thank everyone who trust I with their vote . for those who do not , I hope that during my time in this place I can evidence that I will champion our home . I understand that there be so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , Edinburgh be a tale of two city . too many have be leave behind and suffer through decade of neglect . poverty remain stubbornly high and be a reality for so many child . in our city , food bank have become the norm , where people already struggle to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than they . we have a housing emergency with more than 3 , 000 homeless people , many of whom be family with small child live in hotel room with no kitchen , resort to cooking meal each day from a kettle . we have the scourge of addiction etch on people ' s face , clear for all to see . while our public service be underfunde and break , our community be resilient . I think of people such as Pauline Bowie , recently honour for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteer and low - wage carer who work tirelessly each day for our community . our strength lie in the people of Edinburgh North and Leith , who be know for their warmth , compassion and determination . change people ' s life by offer hope be why this Government be elect , and it be why we must deliver . my journey start , like all of we , before I be bear . I be bear in Rottenrow maternity hospital in Glasgow . yes , the House have not misheard I : there be a maternity hospital call Rottenrow . when I be a baby , and before I have a voice , decision be make that would change and shape my life forever . I be lucky then , as I be now , to have people who love and nurture I . although my mum , dad and gran be no long live , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that I be in this place , as I leave school at 15 with few qualification and leave home not long after . it take I many year to find my place in this world , and I be so grateful for the love of my stepchildren David and Zoe , for Zak and for my wife Melanie , for her love and support every day . to I , they be home . I thank all my friend , party activist , colleague and love one who have support I in my life and on my journey lead to this place . as a child grow up in the ' 80 in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seem inevitable that I would end up as a proud product of the Labour and trade union movement . in my work life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to be a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the Children ' s Panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy have always be my passion . I have learn through life that when other give up on you , it be easy to give up on yourself . my promise to everyone in Edinburgh North and Leith be that I will not give up , and I will fight for everyone ' s right to thrive . I will be their voice in this place , and as be Leith ' s motto , I will always persevere .