I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure the debate . I know how passionate he be about ensure that his constituent get what they should from the SEND system and ensure that his granddaughter , Chloe , get the support she need . he make a powerful case for both . before I go any far , I formally congratulate he on the announcement of his knighthood , which be a well - deserve honour for his decade of public service . by way of background , I be an MP in an f40 area , so I be familiar with the case the organisation make and I meet the group towards the end of last year . I have be child ' s Minister since the end of August , but in the two year before be appoint to that position , the issue of parent and teacher be unable to get the support they need for child with SEND be already in the top two item in my casework and surgery appointment . I pay my own tribute to all the staff support child with special educational need in school , college and alternative provision , both locally and nationally . the issue raise in the debate be very familiar to I . in previous debate , I have talk about parent have what they feel be a war of attrition with the system to try to get the support they need for their child . that be a war that any parent would wage , but no parent should have to . we know the system be not deliver consistent support and outcome and that there be significant financial pressure on it , despite considerable Government investment . I will begin with investment and funding , as that have be the big issue discuss this afternoon . as have be touch on , the Government have increase the high need budget considerably . in 2024 - 25 , it will be £ 10 . 5 billion , which be 60 % high than the figure in 2020 . in the past two year , there have be a 32 % increase in per head funding in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden . Most member would agree that that be a considerable amount of money , as my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) say in his speech . some member may only agree with that privately , but not many Government budget , under any Government or in any area , have increase by 60 % , which demonstrate the Government ' s considerable support for and commitment to the area . we have two programme support local authority that face financial pressure in their SEND system , and a number of member in the Chamber have local authority involve in those programme . first , the safety valve programme , which include 34 local authority with the high percentage deficit , help local authority pay down accumulate deficit and reform their system . by March 2025 , the Department will have allocate nearly £ 900 million through that programme , and if what we be try to deliver be deliver , those deficit will be eradicate . secondly , we have the deliver well value programme for those with substantial but less severe deficit , which involve 55 local authority , include East Riding of Yorkshire in the area of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden . that be help to deliver high - quality outcome with sustainable cost . under that programme , each area develop a reform plan and receive £ 1 million to support its delivery . as have be touch on , the high need budget have double since 2015 , but even if a Government be able to triple or quadruple it , that would not by itself deliver the outcome we all want to see . parent and teacher know that and frequently say that the issue be not just about money . my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) make that point well in his speech , and I intend to pick up with he the discussion about conflict priority . the system need reform , which be why we publish our SEND and alternative provision improvement plan last year , with the aim of get child and young people the right support , in the right place , at the right time . there be a lot within the plan , but I wish to draw out three key area briefly , because they be the one that have come up most this afternoon and be in the petition attach to this debate . first , on special school provision and capital funding , which be raise by the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) and other , we be make a £ 2 . 6 billion investment , £ 1 . 5 billion of which have already be allocate . that be on top of our delivery of new special and alternative provision free school . there be currently 106 special free school open and a further 78 have be approve to open in the future . secondly , on combat regional variation , the plan will move we towards a national system with national standard , which we have never previously have . across the country , we now have nine change programme partnership , which each have between two and four local area , together with local school , health service and parent . what they be do be , for example , test an EHCP template that we hope can be use nationally , which will improve the timeliness and quality of ehcp . we be develop national standard of support for special educational need , begin with one for speech and language , which will be release later this year . we be also publish a local and national inclusion dashboard , which parent will be able to access . they will be able to see how their local area be do , which will drive accountability . thirdly , my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) ask about the skill and knowledge of staff in mainstream school . our teacher standard already include clear expectation that teacher must understand the need of all pupil , include those with special educational need , but we be review the core content framework and the early career framework to improve their confidence in this area . we have a universal SEND service programme , which more than 11 , 000 staff have already access to improve their knowledge and skill . we be also fund the training of 7 , 000 early year staff with a level 3 senco qualification , as my hon . friend the Chair of the Education Committee say . some 5 , 200 staff have begin that training , so we be on track with that target . there be many other point that I want to respond to , but I have only eight minute , so I will just say to my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) and my hon . friend the Members for tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) , for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) , for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) and other that I understand their point about regional variation . it be base partly on deprivation and other factor and partly on the historical spend factor that have be refer to . I be happy to sit down with anybody to talk about those thing . to the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , I say that it be already the case that a school have to be outstanding in all area to receive an outstanding grade from Ofsted , and it be not the case that we have a 20 % target for reduce ehcp , or indeed any other such target . in conclusion , I reiterate my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden for secure this debate and to all member who have contribute to it . we may disagree on certain aspect of how to achieve this , but we be unite in our desire to ensure that the SEND system provide excellent outcome to all child and young people , and that be what this Government be determined to deliver .