Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — improve Access to Public Services what step his Department be take to use technology to improve access to public service . I congratulate my hon . friend on get on the Order Paper twice today — it would be a good day for he to buy a lottery ticket . I can assure he that the new digital centre exist to serve Departments and the wide public sector . the Government Digital Service enable department to deliver digital public service that work for everyone . good public service be dependent on reliable and easily accessible and available underlying datum , such as postal address . however , address datum be complex and expensive for UK business to access . give the importance of that datum to public service delivery and economic growth , will the Minister commit to review the term under which UK address datum be make available to support growth ? my hon . friend raise an important point . follow the privatisation of Royal Mail in 2014 , the postcode address file — the definitive list of UK postal address — become a privately own datum asset . he will know that this afternoon we have the second reading of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which will be a great step forward for the use of datum in the public and private sector . he will also know that we have commit to create a national data library , which will use datum in a radically new way for the benefit of the country and public sector user . I be sure that the Secretary of State will agree that people want their public service deliver efficiently and effectively . to that end , what discussion have he and his Department have with the Department of Government Efficiency and Elon Musk in the United States about how we can harness the power of artificial intelligence to deliver well service , and scrutinise Government spending and dataset , to eliminate waste and inefficiency ? I think the right hon . Gentleman have be asleep at the wheel since the election — not just when he be in government . our Government have bring in the Regulatory Innovation Office , which be now up and run and pilot four area to get innovation through the regulatory landscape without delay . our Government have bring in the gov . uk app , which will be deliver in June , as well as the digital wallet and the digital drive licence , and a suite of productivity service be already be deploy in the public sector . his Government do none of those thing . we be do they now . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . the Government ' s determination to embrace AI to transform public service and pull through procurement opportunity for british business be very welcome , but many public service user and other may have be concern by the Government ' s failure to sign the Paris AI summit declaration , which seek to ensure that AI be open , inclusive , transparent , ethical , safe , secure and trustworthy . a Government spokesperson say that there be concern about progress on global governance and national security . will the Secretary of State elaborate on that ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee , who raise an important point . let we focus on what we do achieve in Paris : we sign this week the joint coalition for sustainable AI , which be to be launch this summer ; we join the initial group of country and multilateral organisation kick off the collaborative network of AI observatory on work ; we co - seal the statement on cyber - security with France — that also launch this week ; and we sign a statement on AI and gender , as part of the global partnership for action on gender - base online harassment and abuse . a lot be achieve this week , but we will always put the national interest first . the House will know full well that this Government will always put national security first — an issue that we want to raise at the summit , and which prevent we from sign the overall agreement . when it come to public service , one thing that bug I , and bug our constituent , be the difficulty of access GP appointment , let alone have to call at half - past 8 in the morning . what progress be be make in allow patient to book GP appointment online , so that they be not force to wait on the phone every morning to see a doctor when they need an appointment right away ? as always , I be grateful for the exchange that the hon . Gentleman and I have in this House , which be always constructive . that issue be part of the legacy that we have inherit from the fail Tory Government of over 14 year , but I assure he that the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which have its Second reading today , will force different part of the NHS to finally start communicate with themselves and use interoperable datum in the interest of patient . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State ' s plan to improve Government service depend on the cloud . in the light of the Competition and Markets Authority decision to assess whether Amazon Web Services and Microsoft should be designate as have strategic market status in cloud service provision , what decision have he make regard the approach to current and future Government procurement of cloud service ? obviously , I can not comment on the CMA , which be an independent regulator . I can , however , say that this Government , via the AI opportunitie action plan , have commit to fully invest in AI infrastructure so that we can have a sovereign AI infrastructure here , with datum store here and process here , create job and wealth in this country . innovation : Livingston what step his Department be take to support innovation in Livingston constituency . we have already spend £ 4 million on project in my hon . friend ' s constituency , include £ 88 , 000 on SilviBio Ltd . I be very proud of the fact that we have be able to commit , in 2025 - 26 , to a record amount of money — £ 20 . 4 billion — for research and development . I thank the Minister for that answer . in the Livingston constituency , we have a number of fantastic biotech and life science business , such as Valneva , which be work on a range of vaccine , include for malaria , and as the Minister mention , SilviBio , which be work on sustainable alternative to peat . give the failure and neglect of the Conservative Government and the SNP Scottish Government in this regard , what conversation be he have with the Scottish Government to ensure that we create an environment in which the biotech and life science industry can thrive in the Livingston constituency and across Scotland ? Livingston be a remarkable example of where investment can make a significant difference . I be really pleased that the chief executive of SilviBio recently receive a woman in innovation award for innovation in science . my hon . friend be absolutely right that innovation accelerator project in Glasgow and across the whole of Scotland need the integration between the Westminster Government and the Holyrood Government to be really successful , but that be precisely what we be determined to do . in October last year , he also have another £ 4 million investment in Livingston by Merck , make it one of the big investor in Scotland . Google Quantum Computing Chip what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the development of the Google quantum compute chip . Google ' s willow announcement be one of several important milestone achieve by company develop quantum computer in recent month , globally and in the UK . the announcement do not change our policy to maintain UK leadership across a range of quantum computing platform . learn from the successful Y2 K , or year 2000 , prevention of system failure , what progress have the Secretary of State make in consider post - quantum cryptography to prevent the so - call Y2Q — year to quantum — end of privacy , and what support be be provide for the development of quantum computing in the UK after the recent announcement of the willow chip ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s question . he will know full well that there be breakthrough in quantum happen all the time . these breakthrough be often happen because of the scientific endeavour in our country , of which we should be proud . on encryption , the Government have a set of policy to ensure that our system and our country be prepare for the challenge and opportunity of the quantum era , and those policy remain active as we speak . on investment in quantum , I be up in Glasgow not so long ago announce £ 100 million for five quantum hub . that be the kind of investment he can expect from this Government to keep our country at the cutting edge . access to Digital Services : north - east what step his Department be take to make digital service easy to access for small business in the north - east . no one anywhere in the UK should have difficulty use Government service , and the Government be commit to ensure that our online and digital service be as accessible as possible . there be globally recognise standard for digital accessibility , but they be only part of the design of an inclusive service , which be why we will be revise the Government service standard to incorporate requirement cover wide issue of inclusion and look at extend their scope into the wide public sector . recently , I attend a roundtable of small business in the north - east , hold at Sage , and a key theme be the need for good connection and digital service to help their business to grow . Digital connectivity be of course critical , but this often hold people back . what be the Government do to ensure that digital infrastructure be strong enough to support local business in constituency such as mine ? it be right that not only do we need to have good online access to service , but business need to be able to connect to those service , and that be why the Government be commit to deliver nationwide gigabit connectivity coverage by 2030 . I be glad to say that over 94 % of premise in her constituency can access gigabit broadband , include the business that she refer to , but I be of course happy to meet she to talk about what more we can do in this important area . the Sussex Bookshop be a new bookshop that open in Chichester city centre in December ; it be now February and it be unable to connect to any sort of internet provision , because Openreach be report that there be no extra connection for the whole city centre . do the Minister agree that reliable internet access be essential , especially for small business that have to operate both on the high street and on an online platform ? what step be she take to ensure that those business have access now , not in 2030 ? I think that be link to the north - east . that be the subject . I absolutely agree with the hon . member . business across the country should be able to connect , especially in this day and age . if the business in her constituency continue to experience problem , my hon . friend the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms will be happy to meet she to discuss this issue far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Digital service for small business be important across the country — north - east , south - east or wherever you be , Mr Speaker . the late data show , however , that only around 15 % of UK small and medium - sized enterprise use AI , which be well behind other country , such as Denmark and Finland . will the Minister commit to publish a detailed adoption road map that cover , for example , essential upskilling , data centre capacity and tech voucher , so that small business can deploy AI without be lock out by cost and complexity ? the hon . Member will have see the AI opportunitie action plan , which set out our aspiration for this country , include the opportunity for small business . the fusion of AI across the economy be top of the agenda . in the come month , she will see more activity on how we will do that . Animal Testing what step he be take with scientist to phase out animal testing . our aim be to phase out animal testing as soon as be practicable . we have be work closely , and it be a manifesto commitment of our . we have be meet scientist and other Departments , because this area be not the sole responsibility of the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . we intend to publish a strategy by the end of this year to make good on our manifesto commitment . I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on phase out animal experiment in medical research , where member from all party can work together to push for scientific experiment that do not rely on animal cruelty and to encourage a focus on non - animal replacement . will the Minister meet I and the APPG to discuss future plan and a strategy for the manifesto commitment on phase out animal testing ? I do not know that my hon . friend have take over the APPG ; it be a good thing that it exist . we will work very closely with the APPG . whether I be the right Minister or whether there be a more intelligent Minister — or a more charming one , perhaps — who might be of more assistance to she , I will make sure that she get all the Ministers that she need . in my constituency of Huntingdon , I have two site that form a key component of pre - clinical animal testing . Labcorp , where the testing take place , and Marshall BioResources , where the beagle puppy be breed and then test on . almost none survive the testing process . while I do not support animal testing , I recognise that it be currently a necessary element of the pre - clinical testing process and can not be phase out until non - animal method have sufficient scope . the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation write to I in September outline the Government ' s approach to phase out animal testing , but will the Government publish a timeline of what test will be phase out via the work of the National Centre for the Replacement , Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research and when ? I can not provide the hon . gentleman with that timeline now . we be work at pace try to put together a practicable policy and a strategy which , as I say , we will publish by the end of the year . he make a perfectly good point about the complexity . it will not be easy for the MHRA to meet its international commitment and our manifesto commitment . we be happy to work with the sector as well as with other Departments to deliver this , and I be happy to have a conversation with he if that would help . online Pornography : regulation what step his Department be take to ensure the regulation of online pornography content be align with offline regulation . I thank my hon . friend for the campaigning work she do on this subject as an MP and as co - chair of the important all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation . the independent pornography review be a wide - range and thorough piece of work to assess the effectiveness of pornography legislation , regulation and enforcement , include online and offline regulation . the review have conclude and the final report will be publish in due course . I put on the record my gratitude to Baroness Bertin for her hard work . online pornography site be awash with content that depict sexual activity with child . adult performer be make to look like child through prop such as stuff toy and school uniform . popular search tag include " homework " , " pigtail " , " teen " and " barely legal " , and the content be often particularly violent . video that depict incest such as sex between father and daughter and between brother and sister be also prevalent . child protection expert warn that this content , which be illegal offline , sexualise child and be drive demand for child sexual abuse material . do the Secretary of State agree that we need urgent action follow the pornography review to equalise online and offline content regulation , to tackle violence against woman and girl and shut down a gateway to paedophilic content ? of course , I agree with my hon . friend . additional power will be come online via the Online Safety Act 2023 . I wish that those power have come into force early ; that be a legacy of the previous Government . we have do everything we can to expedite those power as quickly as we can . from March onwards , there will be power that make extreme pornography illegal and that require site to protect child from access pornography . child sexual abuse and its related activity should not be call pornography — it be rape , and it should be call what it be — and we should do everything we can to keep it offline . AI Growth Zones what progress he have make on set up AI growth zone across the country . as detail in the " AI Opportunities Action Plan " , artificial intelligence growth zone will help to secure the UK ' s position as a global leader in AI , ensure that benefit be feel across the whole of the UK . my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that on Monday we invite local and regional authority along with the industry to come forward with potential suitable site for host AI infrastructure . Rochester and Strood , position between London and mainland Europe , be well place to help drive the UK ' s AI economy . we have : several net zero energy project ready to go , with further plan for a data centre and battery storage ; a council that be already use AI and which create an AI accelerator programme to support local business ; and three university campus that be drive innovation . will the Minister meet I to discuss my constituency ' s potential as a future AI growth zone ? I thank my hon . friend for strongly advocate for her constituency in Medway to become an AI growth zone . she will well know that the " AI Opportunities Action Plan " outline the step we be take so that the UK can build the cutting - edge computer infrastructure need to lead in AI development and deployment . I eagerly look forward to read expression of interest from hon . member ' constituency . I will be more than happy to meet she to discuss this in detail . the Minister will be well aware that the growth of AI across the country depend on a ready supply of datum and other content on which model can be train . she will recognise that much of that content come from our creative industry , and she will know that they be profoundly troubled that they be not be properly treat by the company currently scrape their datum without their permission or without proper compensation . I know that the Government will want to resolve that , and she will know that the Data Bill see amendment make in the other place to address that . do the Government intend to resolve this issue by mean of the Data Bill or by other mean ? if by other mean , what other mean and when ? the right hon . and learn Member will know that there be an ongoing consultation look at clarify the copyright and AI issue . there will be a speech this afternoon on the Data Bill that will cover the issue in more detail . as he will also know , the consultation end on 25 February , after which we will review its response to see what we need to do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . Britain be lead the world when it come to embrace AI . I have just get back from the Paris AI action summit ; the company that I meet there be genuinely excited about our AI opportunitie action plan and optimistic about how we be use AI to build a small , smart state . the new Government Digital Service that I launch last month will harness the power of technology to deliver efficient , convenient public service design to work for work people . in recent month it have become obvious that some social medium company ' algorithm be run not in the pursuit of a commercial imperative but in the service of the political interest of their host country . can those politicise social medium firm be treat as such , to protect the national interest ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question and for the leadership that he have show in his community in Southport during extremely difficult time . the Online Safety Act 2023 apply to all user and include measure to tackle misinformation peddle by foreign state . he have a specific challenge in his community , and I be very willing to meet he and member of his community to hear directly of the impact that these issue have have . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Conservatives secure a £ 450 million investment from AstraZeneca to expand its Merseyside vaccine factory . when the Chancellor wreck the deal , AstraZeneca try to save it by increase that investment to over £ 500 million . why do Labour still walk away , hand job and investment to our competitor ? the deal that the hon . Gentleman say the Conservatives secure be announce in March . the general election be in July . where be the deal , the funding or the write agreement ? there be nothing . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . AstraZeneca be invest more than £ 4 billion in Singapore , the US and Canada . it could have invest in our country too . what be labour do to bring back the deal that it destroy ? there be a deal by WhatsApp that be never follow up by the Treasury or Ministers . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 285 . ] ( Correction ) there be no meeting between AstraZeneca and the Conservative Government . their Government let Britain down every time , which be why the country turn to Labour , and Labour be deliver . the payment system regulator find that more than half of bank transfer scam record in 2023 originate on Facebook , Instagram or WhatsApp . what progress have the Secretary of State make to ensure that tech company be hold to account for fraud originate from their platform ? my hon . friend make a good point . we need to look at that specifically at the Committee stage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . perhaps he will sit on the Bill Committee . the Prime Minister have just hold talk for a UK - EU defence and security partnership , in which the development of artificial intelligence will have be a key theme . however , last night , the UK choose not to join EU country in sign the international agreement on AI . will the Secretary of State please explain the dissonance in the Government ' s approach ? first , let I congratulate President Macron on lay on an incredible summit in Paris which bring together government , tech company and investor . Britain ' s voice be hear loud and clear , which be why we be deliver such extraordinary investment into this country . the Labour Government sign up to and fully engage with most of the aspect that be negotiate . in a few area , we will put Britain ' s interest first . a couple of other country do not sign , either , but I do not hear the hon . Gentleman criticise they . in Ilford we have work with Queen Mary University to launch a new satellite campus to teach medicine and dentistry . give the grow importance of education in science , engineering , technology and mathematic , what specific step be the Secretary of State take to increase educational opportunity in London and across the country ? the Government be work to develop a world - lead science and technology skill base that will drive economic growth and opportunity for all . we be committed to expand access and participation in science and technology education , and we be partner with university to build the skill and workforce across the United Kingdom . a month ago , the Prime Minister say that country will be either AI maker or AI taker . do the Secretary of State agree that by not attend the AI safety summit , the Prime Minister have give a clear indication that the UK will be an AI taker ? this Prime Minister have deliver the AI opportunity action plan ; this Prime Minister be deploy AI technology and productivity tool across Government ; and this Prime Minister have bring in £ 30 billion in investment into digital and AI infrastructure since take office . at the same time , this Prime Minister be sort out the mess leave after 14 year of Tory rule . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 12 February . this week , we progress our Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill to deliver counter - terrorism style power to bring vile criminal smuggling gang to justice . we announce a furth £ 350 million to get Britain building and deliver 1 . 5 million new home that our country desperately need , include more affordable home . we have also slash the red tape that hold business and work people back , create 10 , 000 more apprentice . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I be proud to have play my part in help to draft what have become the Employment Rights Bill . a new poll show that three quarter of the british public back the strong worker ’ right in the Bill , include well sick pay , yet that lot over there — the Tories and Reform — disgracefully vote against it . in fact , the Leader of the Opposition do not even believe in maternity pay or the living wage . our statutory sick pay be rank as one of the low in Europe ; it need to be bring in line with the living wage . will the Prime Minister back my campaign to strengthen the Bill far so that sick pay be at a level that will finally stop punish worker for be sick ? our plan for change deliver the big upgrade in worker ’ right in a generation through our Employment Rights Bill , end exploitative zero - hour contract and the scandal of fire and rehire and expand statutory sick pay to 1 . 3 million employee . of course , that be on top of the pay rise for 3 million of the low pay . I would have think the Leader of the opposition might support the protection of day one employment right , give where she be go , but she think maternity pay be excessive . our plan be pro - worker and pro - growth . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the Conservative Government establish the Ukraine family scheme . in total , more than 200 , 000 Ukrainians — mostly woman , child and the elderly — have find sanctuary in the UK from Putin ' s war . however , a family of six from Gaza have apply to live in Britain use this scheme , and a judge have now rule in their favour . that be not what the scheme be design to do . this decision be completely wrong , and can not be allow to stand . be the Government plan to appeal on any point of law , and , if so , which one ? let I be clear : I do not agree with the decision . the Leader of the opposition be right that it be the wrong decision . she have not quite do her homework , however , because the decision in question be take under the last government , accord to their legal framework . however , let I be clear : it should be Parliament that make the rule on immigration ; it should be the Government who make the policy . that be the principle . the Home Secretary be already look at the legal loophole that we need to close in this particular case . the Prime Minister do not answer the question . if he plan to appeal , the appeal might be unsuccessful , and the law will need to be change . if he do not appeal , the law will definitely need to be change . he talk about a decision make under the previous Government , but it be not make by that government ; it be make by the court . the issue we be discuss today be about judicial decision . we can not be in a situation where we allow enormous number of people to exploit our law in this way . there be million of people all around the world in terrible situation — we can not help they all , and we certainly can not bring they all here . will the Prime Minister commit to bring forward that new legislation or amend his border Bill ? I have already say that the Home Secretary have already get her team work on close this loophole . we do not need to wait for that ; we be get on with that , because we be take control . the Conservatives lose control of immigration : we have nearly 1 million people come into this country ; we have an open border experiment . on Monday this week , they vote against increase power to deal with those who be run the vile trade of people smuggle . same old Tories : open border , empty promise . if the Prime Minister be on top of his brief , perhaps he would be able to answer some question . give this crazy decision and so many other , new legislation be need to clarify the right to a family life in article 8 . [ interruption . ] I be not talk about what he just say ; I know Labour mp do not understand much of what they be say . the Prime Minister literally write a book on the european convention on human right . this be a situation where we need to put our national interest before the ECHR . do he agree that we should legislate , even if lawyer warn that that might be incompatible with human right law ? the right hon . Lady complain about script answer ; her script do not allow she to listen to the answer . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] she ask I if we be go to change the law and close the loophole in question one — I say yes . she ask I again in question two — and I say yes . she ask I again in question three — it be still yes . the right hon . and learn Gentleman do not listen to question one . I ask if he would appeal the decision . he do not answer that . he be not listen ; he be too busy defend the international human right law framework . this case have arise because a Palestinian come to the UK from Gaza in 2007 . he be now a british citizen . this be precisely why we need to break the conveyor belt — from arrive in the UK to acquire indefinite leave to remain and then a british passport , and now a right to bring six family member here as well . just last week , the Prime Minister bizarrely claim that a british passport be not a pull factor for those come to the UK . will he now support our plan to toughen the process on indefinite leave to remain and make get a british passport a privilege , not a right ? the Conservatives preside over record high level of immigration . it reach nearly 1 million . it be a one nation experiment in open border . the right hon . Lady be the cheerleader ; she be the one campaigning for more people to come and thank her own side when they support her campaign . so , before she lecture we , she need to reflect on her own record . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be the Prime Minister now . the people out there want to know what he be go to do about the situation . he need to spend less time whine about the last government and do his job . I think the Prime Minister and I agree that Israel have a right to defend herself , yet the judge in this case note that the family be face a humanitarian crisis " as a consequence of the israeli Government ' s indiscriminate attempt to eliminate Hamas " , and government lawyer accept that . be the Prime Minister allow lawyer to change the position on Israel , and be that because of advice from the Attorney General ? if not , why on earth do Government lawyer accept the argument that israeli action be " indiscriminate " ? government lawyer put the complete opposite argument . the right hon . Lady talk about be on top of her brief ; she have no idea what she be talk about . I will tell she again : we need to change the law . that be why the Home Secretary be already close the gap . I know the script do not allow any adaptation , but this be get tedious . the Prime Minister have not read the judgment . I suggest that he do so . very serious question be now be ask about the Attorney General , the Prime Minister ' s personal friend and donor . even Labour Ministers be concern . one labour peer , Lord Glasman , have call he " the absolute archetype of an arrogant , progressive fool " . if we be serious about protect our border , we need to make sure that we appoint people who believe in our country and everything we stand for . it be not clear that the Attorney General do . the Government be now recruit a new chief inspector of border , who live in Finland and want to work from home . this be not serious . why should the british public put up with it ? the individual in question be appoint in 2019 by the last government to a senior position . he then work for five year from Finland . we have change that , and he will now be work from the United Kingdom full time . it be Finland under they . the Leader of the Opposition talk about the Attorney General ; she sit round the Cabinet table with an Attorney General who be later sack for breach national security . long - stand trader in the CPS Centre in Culcheth be devastate to receive eviction notice give they just 28 day to vacate the premise , entirely out of the blue and on spurious pretext from the new owner , the shell company Shivat Haminim Capital . so far , the owner and its legal representative have fail to hear tenant ' concern and mine , and to negotiate a way forward . do the Prime Minister share my concern about this situation , and will he set out our plan to protect independent business that be the heart of our high street and community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise an issue that be obviously of real concern to business in her constituency . we expect landlord to meet their obligation to make building safe , and we support robust enforcement action from the regulator if they fail to do so . I will ensure that my hon . friend secure a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss what step can be take in this particular case to support the business on which her constituent rely . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . eighty year ago this week , the ally begin a pincer movement against german force between the Ruhr and the Rhine . british and canadian troop attack from the north , Americans from the south . british , canadian and american soldier be fight shoulder to shoulder to defeat fascist . eighty year on , President Trump seem to have forget all that . his tariff against steel and aluminium will hit Canada the hard , but they will also hit job and the cost of live in our country . in remind President Trump who America ' s true and long - stand friend and ally really be , will the Prime Minister also prepare a plan for tariff in return , start with tariff on american electric car ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to refer to our history and the 80 - year anniversary . we be fight alongside the Americans , and that be among the reason why we have a special relationship . british steel be an essential part of our heartland and we will not abandon our skilled workforce , but a level - head assessment of the implication be need , and that be what we be go through at the moment . however , we will always put our national interest first , and steelworker first . it seem to I that , give the way in which President Trump and his ally Musk be operate , they need to hear of strong measure and hear strong word even from their ally . let I move on to the subject of Ukraine . if it be force to surrender its own sovereign territory to Russia , that will be the great betrayal of a european ally since Poland in 1945 , but President Trump say Ukraine may end up russian , and he want american money back . I think we all fear where this could end , and the dangerous implication for our defence and our security . can the Prime Minister reassure the House that he and other european leader have give sufficient support to President Zelensky so that he can not be bully by Trump and Putin into accept a deal that would effectively hand victory to Russia ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , I meet President Zelensky in Kyiv just a few week ago — it be my eighth meeting . the position since the outbreak of this conflict have be a united position across the House of support Ukraine , and I be able to reiterate my position , which be that we must put Ukraine in the strong possible position . that matter now just as much as it matter at the beginning of the conflict , and I do discuss with he what more we and our ally can do to put Ukraine in the strong possible position . two year ago , from the Opposition Benches , I publish my " Healthy Britain " report , recommend a cross - departmental approach to improve health and wellbeing . now that we be in government , I be delighted that minister have hit the ground run — because run be obviously very healthy . will the Prime Minister confirm that last week ' s announcement of an increase to the public health grant , which will help local service to focus more on prevention and early intervention , be just the start of a long - term strategy that will make Britain healthy , happy and more productive ; reduce pressure on the NHS ; and promote growth ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the important role that local community play in support healthy lifestyle . I be delighted that we be provide almost £ 4 billion for the local health service that people rely on — thing like health visitor , stop smoke service and drug abuse treatment . I will make sure that she meet the relevant Minister to discuss this issue . Prime Minister , I get it : nobody want to get into a trade war . but , unlike Peter Mandelson , sometimes you have get to stand up for what you believe in . my friend in the DUP have learn nothing from their mistake of back Brexit , and think that tariff be a laugh matter . do the Prime Minister agree that we need to stand up for ourselves , we need to back our worker and we need to back our business — not just in Lagan Valley but , indeed , across the UK ? yes , of course . the US and the UK share a strong and balanced trading relationship . we invest hugely in each other ' s economy , and we will continue to work closely with President Trump to boost growth and to create job . I reassure the hon . Lady that we will always act in the good interest of business and work people across the whole of the United Kingdom , include , of course , Northern Ireland . I be baffle on Monday when , give the chance to support legislation , back by the National Crime Agency , to crack down on criminal smuggler gang and secure our border , Conservative and Reform Members link arm in the voting Lobby to vote against it . the Conservatives spend three year and £ 700 million on their ludicrous Rwanda scheme , and see four volunteer return . do the Prime Minister agree that there be only one party that be serious about repair our broken immigration system ? yes , and let I remind Reform and the Tories what they vote against early this week in our border Bill . they vote against make it an offence to organise the buying , selling and transport of small boat , against make it an offence to endanger life at sea , and against power to arrest suspect people smuggler before the smuggling take place . they vote against . they vote for open border — both of they . last week , the Prime Minister give yet another threadbare excuse for why he and his north London lawyer friend be give away the Chagos island . this be his decision , and he must own it . more importantly , he can not tell we , british taxpayer , how much this be go to cost . be it £ 9 billion ? be it £ 18 billion ? be it £ 52 billion ? have call this botched deal " insane " , member of his own Cabinet reportedly think it be impossible to understand , and one of his own mps think it be the bad thing that the Labour party have ever do . can the Prime Minister tell we which word he think good describe this deal ? I set out the position in relation to the Chagos island last week . I also offer the Leader of the Opposition a high - level briefing on this matter . she still have not take I up on the offer of that briefing . the Conservatives be ask question without want to know the fact . it be extraordinary that someone who want to be Prime Minister do not want to know the fact , even when she be offer a high - level briefing . the hon . Gentleman would be well inform if she take I up on the offer of a briefing . the Prime Minister will , I be sure , want to congratulate Newcastle United on reach the league cup final after Arsenal ' s exit . in National Apprenticeship Week , will he also congratulate the 600 apprentice learn trade , from weld to quantity surveying , as part of the Tyne bridge restoration programme ? while I know that he can not confirm bridge the funding gap leave by the Tories , will he confirm that he be look forward to see the Tyne bridge restore in time for its 100th birthday in 2028 ? I be go to struggle to sound delighted with the result of that particular football match , but it will be a special day for Newcastle fan . the Tyne bridge be an iconic north - east landmark and I congratulate the apprentice who be help to restore that vital piece of infrastructure . as usual , the Tories make empty promise that they have no intention of keeping , include £ 2 . 9 billion - worth of transport commitment that be never fund . we will look at the capital project around the spending review and let my hon . friend know as soon as we can . my constituent Peter and Maureen have be marry for 70 year . Peter be 93 and for the past few week have be stick in a hospital ward wait to go home because a care package have not be arrange . Peter be miss home and miss Maureen . will the Prime Minister reassure my constituent the social care crisis will be tackle this year ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue and the particular case of her constituent . I also know that this be deeply personal to she and , if I may , I extend my deep sympathy to she and her family for their loss . we have take immediate action on social care . we have already deliver £ 3 . 7 billion of additional investment . we be work on the first ever fair pay agreement for the sector and , of course , we be boost carer ' s allowance . I invite she and everybody to work with the House on the long - term reform that we need . James Rennie be an outstanding specialist school in the heart of my constituency . have convert every spare corner into classroom and exceed its publish admission number , and already have 43 application know for this September , it be burst at the seam and can not expand any far . what be clearly need be a new specialist school for north Cumbria . what assurance can the Prime Minister give my constituent that his Government will put child before ideology and allow local authority to tackle the shortage in special educational need and disability provision ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this vital issue . it be not the first time it have come up . we be support mainstream school to increase SEND expertise while also establish dedicated SEN unit , because we need to make sure that special school can also cater for those with the most complex need . we be work on this . it have come up time and again , but we be take those vital initial step . Dorothy House be an amazing hospice support terminally ill people in Frome and East Somerset and their family , include my good friend Lisa . next year , Dorothy House will be look forward to celebrate 50 year of service , but it will also face an additional cost of £ 422 , 000 thank to the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution . will the Prime Minister commit to meet I and representative of the hospice sector to hear at first hand about the impact of the increase in nic , and to work to find a solution ? everyone deserve high - quality and compassionate end - of - life care . the hon . Member know that we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in our public finance , and that be why we take the difficult but right decision to invest in our public service . I do recognise the pressure that hospice be face , and that be why we be invest £ 100 million into hospice , with an additional £ 26 million to support child and young people ' s hospice . I will make sure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister . a significant part of the dreadful legacy leave by the previous Conservative Government be the chronic underfunding of transport infrastructure , especially in the north - east , as we have just hear from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) . do the Prime Minister agree with I and the North East Mayor , Kim McGuinness , that redevelopment of the disuse Leamside line would reconnect Gateshead with north Durham , and that increase the capacity on the east coast main line would help to bring the Metro to Washington in my constituency , bring much - need job , growth and opportunity to my region ? both my hon . friend and the North East Mayor be dedicate campaigner on this issue . the conservative party leave we with a host of unfunded promise , and public transport be in dire condition . expand the Metro network have huge potential to drive growth and unlock new housing . I be pleased that progress be be make on the business case . early this week we learn that the Prime Minister ' s close friend , the Attorney General , have in the past advise caribbean nation on seek trillion of pound in reparation . he have be a key player in the surrender of the Chagos island and the related fiasco , which will cost taxpayer up to £ 18 billion , and he have even advise Gerry Adams , who be stand in line to get compensation from the British Government in Northern Ireland legacy payment , the quantum of which could cost up to £ 2 . 7 billion . give the Attorney General ' s track record , do the Prime Minister have faith in his motive , and do he have confidence that his good friend represent good value for the british taxpayer ? we have long have the principle in this country that everybody be entitle to legal representation , which mean that lawyer do not necessarily agree with their client . conservative Members use to believe in that principle . if they now disagree , they should go to see the victim of very serious crime , include sexual crime , and tell they that , under their provision , a lawyer who disagree with a perpetrator would not be able to represent they , mean that victim would be cross - examine by perpetrator . that have never be the conservative party ' s position . if it be now , it should say so . allergy school , launch this week by the Natasha Allergy Research Foundation , be a free programme to support child with food allergy . allergic disease be a grow issue in this country , with more than 20 million people in the UK affect . for this reason , it have never be more important for we to have a national allergy strategy and an allergy tsar to drive and co - ordinate action . will the Prime Minister join I in welcome this programme , and will he meet I and the foundation to talk about how we can work together to drive this forward ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this really important issue . hospital admission for allergy have rise sharply in the last two decade . I welcome the work of the Natasha Allergy Research Foundation . we will respond to the recommendation of the national allergy strategy group in due course , and I will make sure my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss it . my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage have see a 35 % population increase in the last 20 year . my constituent recognise the need for affordable housing , but the current planning system be not deliver the GP surgery , dentist and transport option they need . will the Prime Minister restore faith in the planning system and , as well as focus on housing number , deliver the local target for health service and wide infrastructure that grow community need ? we be , of course , deliver 1 . 5 million home , but we be also create community for the future . the hon . Gentleman be right that that must include good school , GPs and reliable transport link , which be what make a good community . just today we have announce an additional £ 350 million to deliver more affordable home so that more people can realise the dream of home ownership . this week be National Apprenticeship Week . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for apprenticeship , I can tell the Prime Minister that employer be very pleased to see this week ' s announcement , which will make a real difference both to completion rate and to the flexibility around apprenticeship . do the Prime Minister agree that school should be promote apprenticeship alongside a - level and other option ? and can he tell we what more he will do to support more young people into apprenticeship ? I be very pleased that my hon . friend have raise this issue , and that we will be able to give employer more flexibility on math and english requirement . this be really important , as many young people do not get the math qualification they want but be very well suited for the future and want to play their part . they can now get an apprenticeship under our change . these 10 , 000 extra apprenticeship be deliver for they , give they a chance to contribute to our economy . yesterday , the farming Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , tell a conference of farmer that farming be " not high on the pecking order " for this Government . give the heartless family farm tax , will the Prime Minister say if his Minister be correct — yes or no ? farming be top of the agenda , as far as I be concerned . that be why we put £ 5 billion to support farmer in the Budget — [ interruption . ] the Conservatives fail to spend £ 300 million on farming on their watch . we have set out our road map , which have be welcome by the National Farmers Union , as the hon . Lady very well know . it be describe as " long overdue " ; I wonder who do not do it before ? order . Mr Dewhirst , I be sure you do not want to be leave today — it be not the good day for it . as a graduate of the Croydon Youth Philharmonic Orchestra , the Prime Minister will know that youth service can broaden a young person ' s horizon beyond what they could ever imagine . with national spending on youth service have decline 73 % since 2010 , will the Prime Minister outline how this Government will bring youth service back into our community , will he look at give they the statutory protection they deserve and will he visit Croydon East to see at first hand the vital role youth service play in my constituency ? my day with the Croydon Youth Philharmonic Orchestra be a long time ago now , but we fully recognise the importance of youth service . they save life and help young people to live safe and healthy life . we have be develop our plan for the new national youth strategy , to bring power back to young people and help every young person realise their potential . every 22 minute , a child in this country lose a parent or a love one . that be 40 , 000 child every year face a trauma that many of we here know can last a lifetime . charity such as Winston ' s Wish do a fantastic job provide support for young people , particularly when school be close or there be no one else to turn to . however , at the moment there be no simple way for the child to know about those charity or for the charity to contact the child . will the Government back my private Member ' s Bill this summer to enable that to happen ? will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss how we can ensure that another generation of child will not have to face that trauma ? I thank the hon . Lady for her ongoing work and campaign on that important issue . the cross - Government bereavement group continue to look at how we can improve access to the support that child and young people need at those difficult time . of course I will ensure that she get the meeting she want with the Minister to discuss this far . yesterday mark the 20th anniversary of the launch of the Make Poverty history campaign and of a fantastic speech , remember by all of we who be there , deliver by the late , great Madiba . that campaign inspire a generation of campaigner and a great Labour Government to deliver unprecedented action to tackle global poverty , lift million out of poverty . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to some of those campaigner and commit to do all he can to ensure that Britain play its full part in help to eradicate global poverty today ? it be a really important issue . we pay tribute and , of course , we continue to play our full part . Basingstoke hospital , which be use by resident of half of my North East Hampshire constituency , have have its rebuild delay by 15 year , despite no ministerial visit to see the worsen condition . it be estimate that maintain the hospital for those 15 will cost almost as much as the rebuild itself . will the Prime Minister explain the logic of make taxpayer pay twice ? the hon . Lady ' s constituent be right to be frustrate about the empty , unfunded promise that be leave behind by the Conservatives — a point make by she and by my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) . under the previous Government ' s plan , a new hospital in Basingstoke would simply not have be deliver because it be unfunded : it be a promise without anything behind it . we have put in place a fund , deliverable plan that will see the hospital build , and we will work closely with the trust to ensure that it be . the Government ' s devolution plan be a welcome progressive development to shift power and resource from Whitehall to our community . there be discussion now about the process and the realisation of benefit for our community . will the Prime Minister assure my resident in Worthing West , and those in all constituency start priority devolution programme , that Sussex devolution will give we meaningful control of our local priority , include housing , transport and social care ? I thank my hon . friend for raise devolution , which will see her constituent in Sussex get meaningful control over local priority . the devolution priority programme will see a wave of mayor elect next year , include in Sussex . I believe that those with skin in the game make the good decision about their community . for the final question , I call Andrew Mitchell . the Prime Minister will be well aware of the global vaccination fund , Gavi . one of the United Kingdom ' s great success story , it have vaccinate from deadly disease more than a billion child under five , it present real value for money to british taxpayer and more than 80 % of our constituent support it . will he give the House an undertaking that Britain will continue that leadership and make a decisive pledge at next month ' s replenishment conference ? this be a really important issue , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly point out . I have long support it and will continue to support it , and I will share detail with he just as soon as I can . Energy Infrastructure : Chinese Companies ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on the potential security implication of the involvement of chinese company , include Mingyang , in energy infrastructure project . I thank the hon . Lady for bring the urgent question to the House . the protection and security of the energy sector be an absolute priority for this Government . we have a range of effective measure in place that give the Government power to balance an open investment environment to facilitate growth with protect the area of our economy that be most sensitive to national security . the Government firmly believe that the big risk to our energy system and energy security be remain dependent on international fossil fuel market , control by petrostate and dictator . that be why we have a mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower to end that dependence . we have a world - lead offshore wind industry in the UK and international investment play a crucial role in support job across the country . as part of that mission , my Department engage in discussion with a wide range of investor , include those from other country . we be also clear that alongside that , the growth of UK supply chain be critical . that be why we have set out plan for a clean industry bonus to drive investment in manufacturing , as well as set up great British Energy and the national wealth fund . the Government will not hesitate to use our power to protect national security whenever we identify concern , and we will take a consistent , long - term and strategic approach to manage the UK ' s relation with China , root in UK and global interest . the Government will co - operate with China where it can , compete where it need to and challenge where it must . I thank the Minister for her comment and general reassurance , but there be specific concern at the moment . China can produce what be useful to we for the development of renewable , particularly in the North sea , and we can benefit from those investment . China also need access to our market . however , security issue involve company work in offshore renewable development have become apparent in recent week and have be raise numerous time . it have be report that the chinese company Mingyang be interested in produce turbine for a new project in the North sea . around £ 60 million of Scottish Government funding have be earmark for a wind turbine factory near Inverness , in addition to a potential £ 27 million for Orient Cable to provide subsea cable for island community . that be despite the European Union bring anti - trust case against China and the norwegian Government block Mingyang from its green infrastructure project . will the Minister reassure the House that the Department will follow the same rigorous process to assess those risk as the previous Government , which ultimately block Huawei from the 5 g network ? this must include an assessment of any opportunity for remote access to the turbine , as the software will normally remain in the control of the manufacturer even once commission , leave they vulnerable to be switch off . we need local control . will the Department reassure the House that discussion be ongoing with the Scottish Government to ensure that no public money be invest before this risk assessment have take place ? how will Ministers work with the Scottish Government and Cabinet colleague to ensure that offshore and undersea infrastructure be safe ? the hon . Lady raise important concern that we be very much alive to . as I say in my first answer , energy security be critical to the Department ' s work and that be why we have the clean power mission to end our dependency on fossil fuel . international investment be a crucial part of that and help to support growth and job across the country . as part of that , we have discussion with a wide range of international investor , but we absolutely recognise that this need to be balance against national security implication . we work on that constantly across Government with input from a number of Departments , and I be pleased to see my hon . friend the Minister for Security from the Home Office here for the urgent question . the Government have to consider both those aspect together : the need for investment and for great capacity in our supply chain , and the security risk . while I can not get into the detail of the individual case , give the nature of the ongoing discussion , I reassure the hon . Lady that we be take these factor into account . we do want to make sure that the most robust process be follow as we look at the detail of this particular issue . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be pleased to hear the Minister confirm the importance of our energy security , in contrast to what we see under the previous Government . [ interruption . ] opposition member can groan all they want , but that be the reality of what be inherit in July last year . as we extend energy infrastructure in this country , can my hon . friend the Minister confirm how this Government will ensure that we have control of the operation of that infrastructure ? do she agree it be vital that through the industrial strategy we see a renaissance in our manufacturing and great resilience in our supply chain , all of which add to the energy security of this country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that deal with capacity issue in our supply chain be a crucial part of get this investment into infrastructure . it be one of the reason why , through the national wealth fund , we invest in lithium in Cornwall last week . through the critical mineral strategy , we want to maximise the natural resource that we have , where we can . as I have say , we want to make absolutely sure that security concern be address as well when we look at which investor invest in our new economy . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the indication that Mingyang will get the green light from the Treasury to supply wind turbine technology to the Green Volt wind farm in the North sea be concern . indeed , alarm bell have be sound by official in the Minister ' s Department and in the Ministry of Defence . this green revolution will come with a " make in China " label . the Government , in collusion with the Scottish National party in Holyrood , be determined to see chinese company reap the economic reward . the Minister ' s party say again and again that the transition to renewable energy will reduce our reliance on hostile regime . Chinese - control technology embed in our critical energy infrastructure be evidently a threat to our security . can the Minister assure we that she be take this threat seriously ? can she explain how use wind turbine make by Mingyang reduce our reliance on foreign state ? just last week I , along with many mp in the Minister ' s party , be brief by the Royal Navy on the vulnerability of our subsea communication and energy infrastructure . we have see a pervasive rise in sabotage attack on subsea cable in the Baltic , affect our scandinavian ally . if Chinese - manufacture turbine be instal , security expert have warn that sensor could spy on british sea , defence submarine programme and the layout of our energy infrastructure . we would be reliant on chinese equipment and software , and on chinese supplier for update and maintenance , hand Beijing significant opportunity for interference . in the current international climate , it be unthinkable to disregard the security implication of this decision . can the Minister confirm that the Government have scrap the GIGA — green industry growth accelerator — scheme that we launch to build british supply chain in energy technology ? what discussion have she have with the Ministry of Defence about its concern over our ability to ensure the security of our energy system ? what safeguard will be in place to prevent chinese maintenance ship access the turbine for repair ? what guarantee have she have , if any , from our defence and security agency that this investment will pose no threat to our national security ? if such assurance be not forthcoming , will she revisit this decision and put a halt to the madness of allow the People ' s Republic of China to have such a significant stake in our energy system ? when the Minister — [ interruption . ] sorry , I be the Minister now . [ laughter . ] the shadow Minister mention revisit this decision , but , as yet , no decision have be make . we be undergo rigorous process to consider the role of China in our supply chain and in the investment in our critical infrastructure . have be in my position , the hon . Gentleman will know why it be so important that I do not provide a running commentary on individual case , but I have make it clear that we be take into account the national security consideration as well as our need for investment in the supply chain . let I touch on the legacy that we be leave by the previous Minister : he be perfectly happy to leave our energy system expose , with the british people pay the price . the retreat — the " under new management " line that he be parrot early this week — would leave we even more exposed to those petrostate and dictator . we be get on with our clean power mission to end our energy insecurity , and I shall take no lesson from the shadow Minister on energy security give his government ' s record . I be glad to hear the Minister point out that , when it come to green investment over the past 14 year , the legacy that we be leave with be of an absolutely vacant industrial strategy . I urge she to explain far how we might be able to develop the skill and competency in this country to make sure that we have good , strong and ethical supply chain . I thank my hon . friend for her question . we have launch the clean industry bonus , which will be crucial in protect our supply chain . we be invest through GB Energy and the national wealth fund — I have already mention lithium in Cornwall . through the global clean power alliance , which we launch at the end of last year , we will bring together our counterpart from other country , include at the International Energy Agency conference in April , to look at a supply chain mission to deal with these issue . these issue do not just affect we in this country . as other country seek to decarbonise and increase the role of renewable , we will all need to co - operate and deal with the capacity issue across the supply chain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) for secure this important urgent question . since the russian invasion of Ukraine , as the Minister have rightly say , " energy security " have be a key term in this Chamber . there be two way of look at energy security . first , it be about generate our own renewable energy to avoid price volatility and exposure to authoritarian regime , ensure that we have the job here at home for design and construction . secondly , it be about the national security issue around our energy infrastructure , which be also a form of energy security . a former MI6 chief have warn of the vulnerability , either deliberate or inadvertent , pose by foreign - control software embed in our energy infrastructure . give those serious concern , can the Minister guarantee that any further investment in Scotland will increase both our energy and our national security ? as I have say , we be go through the robust process to try to make absolutely sure that our national security be not compromise by investment from overseas , and we will continue to do that . the Grangemouth refinery be a vital piece of scottish infrastructure , and its economic contribution to the scottish economy be worth more than £ 400 million every year . the Grangemouth refinery be also a joint venture between PetroChina , own by the chinese state , and INEOS , a multinational conglomerate . together , they be Petroineos . the refinery be due to close , with thousand of job be lose , an unjust transition and Scotland have to rely on import oil , all at a time of great global volatility . why be this Government allow a foreign government and private capital dictate Scotland ' s industrial capacity , its ability to produce oil and , overall , our national security ? we be not allow anyone to dictate to we . I know my hon . friend have be deep in conversation for some time with the Minister for Energy over Grangemouth ' s future . to reiterate , we absolutely need to attract investment to meet our clean power mission , to secure our future energy security and , in the long run , to bring down bill for the british people . we need to balance national security concern in tandem with that , and neither one take priority . we need to tackle those challenge together , and that be what we will do . whatever the question about energy be , China be not the answer . first , we know the Ministry of Defence and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero have raise objection about the Treasury ' s push to bring Mingyang Smart Energy into the circuit to bid for this . secondly , China be determined to involve slave labour in its product . we be invest under this Government in solar array , which use a huge amount of slave labour in produce polysilicon . do the Government not recognise that their tilt towards China to get it to invest run the real risk of utter dependency on China and serious threat to our security , which have be highlight endlessly by the security service , and will they now stop ? I recognise that the right hon . Member have long - stand concern about the role of China and its investment in our economy . he have be a great champion of raise concern about force labour , and he be right to do so . we have set up the solar taskforce , as I be sure he be aware , to look at whether there be force labour in our solar supply chain . as I have say , a supply chain mission will be launch as part of the global clean power alliance . this be not something that one country can tackle by itself ; we all need to be alert to the risk of slave labour . I know that an amendment be pass in the House of Lords last night that mean the issue will come back to this Chamber soon , and I look forward to the discussion then . do the Minister agree that develop our economic and trading relationship with other nation be one lever of many that the Government be use to drive growth and investment , alongside plan reform , public investment and a proper industrial strategy for the people not only of the UK , but my city ? at the same time , our work across Departments must always have our nation ' s security at its core . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we be use a number of lever . the growth mission and the clean power mission work hand in hand to ensure that energy security and the decarbonisation of our power system contribute to growth in this country , and that mean contribute to job creation and , in some case , overseas investment . we have set up great British Energy , and we have the national wealth fund and the clean industry bonus , all of which will help we achieve those objective . have Ministers or official in the Ministry of Defence , the Home Office or the security service raise any concern with the Department over the possibility of offshore structure in british water be use for chinese intelligence - gather technology ? if there be sensitive matter that can not be discuss in the House , will she commit to hold a private briefing for member on the security implication of energy infrastructure from China ? I can not comment on the extent of conversation , other than to reassure the hon . member that , of course , those conversation be take place and will be ongoing and that we be go through robust process . again , because it be not my specific role , I can not say whether that information could be share . I do not think that it can be share on a day - to - day basis , but I will investigate whether we could arrange a briefing with member to give some reassurance as to the general approach . I be surprised that Conservative Members seem to have forget the time when they be push the golden era of the relationship between the UK and China . some of this be a legacy of their time in government , so they should be careful about how they approach this conversation . I point out to the Minister the role that Grimsby play in service and support operation of offshore wind , not only around UK water but as far as Taiwan . those skill , competency and capability exist here in the country , so what additional support will be give to expand those capability and support for skill in this country ? my hon . friend have be a real champion for Grimsby , and I be glad to see she return at the recent election , so that she can carry on champion all the potential that Grimsby have to offer , not least in the wind sector . it be important that we link up skill and capacity — that be one of the obstacle . we talk often about how grid capacity and planning issue can hold up the roll - out of clean power , but we have to have the skill base as well . we be work with the Department for Education on how we can train and develop capacity within the exist workforce through thing like the growth and skill levy to work on these exciting new project . the Minister speak about be reliant on the petrochemical state and dictatorship that supply the fuel need for our energy system , and yet the vast majority of the process material need — whether we construct thing here or not — come from China . we recognise that some of those country be dictatorship , but will the Minister confirm at the Dispatch Box that a country that use slave labour , have carry out the most horrendous crime against the uyghur population and have sanction our own parliamentarian be as much a dictatorship as the country that she say we want to no long be reliant on ? if we follow the approach suggest by the Opposition Front Bench , we would be firmly back in the hand of the petrostate and the dictator . as for our relationship with China , as I have say , we will co - operate where we can , compete where we need to and absolutely challenge if we must . we have be clear that no company in the UK should have force labour in its supply chain . that be why we have set up the solar taskforce and be go through robust process ahead of the decision that we be talk about . I will take no lesson from the right hon . member because we have have 14 year of be expose to a volatile energy market , and we be try to recreate our energy security through this investment . do the Minister agree that , after the real neglect of our energy infrastructure for the past 14 year , set up GB Energy to help UK ownership of energy production can only be a good thing , and that our investment in critical mineral , particularly in Cornwall , and in the supply chain for float offshore wind will be crucial for our national security ? on the one hand , Conservative Members raise concern about critical mineral be import from abroad . on the other , when my hon . friend , who be a real champion for her area , praise the investment that we have put into lithium extraction in Cornwall , they start jeer . we will continue to invest through GB Energy and the national wealth fund . to have true energy security , we need home - grow capability at all stage of the development of renewable energy infrastructure , from the early research to maintenance and decommissioning . what step be the Minister take to ensure that we have that home - grow full - lifecycle capability ? from the hon . member ' s question , she may be talk about community energy — I be not quite sure . indicate dissent . in that case , I will say that it be important that any investment be place - base , and we need to look at develop the capability , such as the skill and the capacity of the local authority — that be where community energy come in . we also need to ensure that the finance go where the investment be need . if I have not understand the hon . member ' s question , I would be happy to take it up with she afterwards . I welcome the Minister ' s engagement on this topic . to have meaningful and serious discussion with other major economy be vital for our success . do the Minister agree that those discussion be key to not only secure our economic aim , but tackle the climate and nature crisis and achieve our wide international objective ? yes , that international co - operation be absolutely crucial . it mean talk to country with which we share a great deal in common and which be sign up to the same objective , but it also mean talk to other country to bring they with we . that be why we be host the International Energy Agency summit in London in April , why we have set up the global clean power alliance , and why the Prime Minister go to the COP climate change talk in Baku last autumn and show international leadership , which be very much lacking from UK government of previous year . clearly , national security concern be be express across the House . will the Minister ensure that the construction , maintenance and access to software will be carry out by british worker in british shop , and will not be subcontract to foreign power ? as I have say , I can not comment on individual case , but there be process to ensure that our national security be protect as we look ahead . I welcome the Minister ' s reassurance about the Government ' s rigorous scrutiny of energy project involve chinese technology . I understand the argument that , at the current stage of our transition to net zero , we may need to look far afield to meet our domestic energy need , but do she agree that the long - term plan ought to be to reduce reliance on chinese technology in the UK energy sector and to use British - make green technology , about which there can be no national security or ethical supply chain concern ? I agree . that be why we be do all we can to increase capacity through initiative such as the clean industry bonus , investment from the national wealth fund , the role of GB Energy , and all the other measure that we will take through our industrial strategy to ensure that we keep and create job in the UK . the Minister be all over the place on this . in her opening remark , she say that the United Kingdom have a world - lead renewable energy industry . if we do , we would not be have this discussion about foreign import infrastructure . notwithstanding the Tories ' total failure over 14 year to invest in the industrial base for renewable energy manufacturing across the United Kingdom , what be the Government ' s strategy to get in front of this , not just in manufacturing but in resource supply , enterprise resource planning and intellectual property ? what be the big shift that the Government have plan ? I just hear jibber - jabber . that be not very polite of the hon . member . as I have say , we be do all we can to attract investment into the UK , so that we can be as reliant as possible on our own resource — that mean our own supply chain and attract investment and so on . we be do that through the national wealth fund and through GB Energy . I do not know to what extent he take part in debate on the great british Energy Bill , but there be much discussion then . as I have say , this issue must be solve on an international level . we be do a lot of work with our colleague to make the North sea the green power plant of Europe through the North Seas Energy Co - operation council , and we have set up the global clean power alliance . we can not act alone — although I know that the Scottish National party prefer that approach . we be work in co - operation but also in the good interest of the british economy . can the Minister confirm that her Department ' s work be entirely consistent with the Government ' s approach to China : co - operate where we can , compete where we need to and challenge where we must ? that be exactly our approach , and it be the right approach . perhaps the Opposition Front Benchers would advocate not co - operate with China , but it be an incredibly important player on the world stage , and we gain nothing from completely turn our back on it and not engage in dialogue . follow its illegal invasion of Ukraine , we see how Russia respond in the global tarrif sanction market : it try to use its dominance in the nuclear fuel market to put pressure on Ukraine ' s ally . we see the vulnerability in our energy supply chain when our enemy , and ally of those enemy , want to use it against we . former head of MI6 Sir Richard Dearlove say that the Government ' s target of decarbonise the grid hand power to Beijing . we have enough oil and gas in the UK not to have to rely on dictator state , so why do we not just get drill and get our own oil and gas out of the ground ? I suspect that , in their mad dash to decarbonise the grid , the Government will not do that , but have they undertake a risk assessment of the strategic vulnerability of our national security in our increase reliance on chinese rare earth mineral and battery production ? I think I have make it clear that there be ongoing conversation about that , and that we take national security incredibly seriously when we consider investment decision . on what the hon . Member say about produce more oil and gas here for our own use , I think he need a lesson in how the energy market work — there be no guarantee that it would be use here . the issue be the Labour Government ' s rush to decarbonise by 2030 , which mean that this country do not have the capability to fulfil all the requirement to deliver on these project . until we do , we will always be reliant on overseas power and people , such as the Chinese Government and chinese manufacturer , to deliver what we need in order to decarbonise . be the Government prepared and happy to sacrifice our national security and our energy security to reach that 2030 target ? it sound very much like the hon . Member be make the case for an industrial strategy that ensure that we can match demand with supply . that approach be particularly miss from the previous Government . almost on a weekly basis , we be lecture by the net zero - obsess Secretary of State that the race for renewable be necessary in order to give this country a secure future supply of energy . yet the renewable industry be increasingly dependent on chinese technology , and on rare earth metal , of which the Chinese control 70 % , so we be place our future energy supply in the hand of a dictatorship that have prove itself willing to use such infrastructure to blackmail the country in which it be base . should we not consider the supply of fossil fuel in this country — decade of oil and gas — which we could use without interference from other ? we believe that the good route to energy security be through our clean power by 2030 mission and further investment in renewable . that remain our stance . the Minister will be aware that the costly environmental obligation that the Government impose on home - manufacture good be not adhere to by many other nation , which often prevent UK manufacturer from be able to compete . do the Minister agree that those consideration , as well as the routine human right breach of chinese business against the Uyghurs , Falun Gong , Christians and other ethnic minority , should be equally weight with cost ? human right and chinese production will never add up ; that must inform any contract offer by this nation of ours . the hon . Member have frequently raise almost every issue that one could think of , but he and I have take part in many debate about human right in country of concern over the year , and he be absolutely right to flag those concern . as I have say , we have the solar taskforce and the supply chain mission with the global clean power alliance . we be very much alert to those matter . we do not want to see force labour or any form of modern slavery in our supply chain . we be determined to take action on that . prevent : Learning Review with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the publication of the Prevent learning review into the perpetrator of the attack that tragically kill Sir David Amess on 15 October 2021 . Sir David Amess be a beloved Member of this House . a hugely respected parliamentarian , his popularity extend right across the political divide . to win and keep the respect of those outside one ' s own party be , as we all know , a rare accomplishment . over nearly 40 year of service in this place , Sir David fight every day for his constituent . he advance numerous cause with compassion , persistence and skill , and member on all side of the House know he as a warm , respectful and always fair parliamentarian . his legacy live on , not least in Southend , which now have the city status he campaign so determinedly for . he will never be forget , and as the motto on Sir David ' s memorial shield behind I state , " his light remain " . while this House lose a hugely value Member on that terrible day , Sir David ' s wife and child lose a love husband and a devoted father . they be in our thought and prayer today and always . together with the Home Secretary , who speak with Sir David ' s family recently , I recognise the courage and persistence they have show in seek the answer that they deserve . as the House will know , it be a heinous act of violence on 15 October 2021 that take Sir David away from those who know and love he . the killer , Ali Harbi Ali — and I will not say his name again — be convict of murder in April 2022 and receive a whole - life sentence . the judge say that this " be a murder that strike at the heart of our democracy " , and he have " no doubt whatsoever " that the nature of this case mean that the perpetrator " must be keep in prison for the rest of his life . " the perpetrator have previously be refer to the Prevent programme and subsequently to the specialist Channel programme between 2014 and 2016 , or between five and seven year before the attack take place . immediately after the attack , a Prevent learning review be jointly commission by the Home Office and counter - terrorism policing to examine what happen in the case and see whether lesson need to be rapidly learn . it be complete in February 2022 . last week , I make a statement to the House on the Government ' s publication of the Prevent learning review concern the perpetrator of the abhorrent attack in Southport . today , we be take a further step to enable public scrutiny of Prevent , and in recognition of the seriousness of the terrible attack on Sir David , by publish the Prevent learning review conduct in this case , too . the perpetrator of the attack on Sir David become know to Prevent in October 2014 , when he be refer by his school after teacher identify a change in his behaviour . the case be adopt by the Channel multi - agency early intervention programme in November 2014 . an intervention provider who specialise in tackle islamist extremism be assign to work with he . the perpetrator be exit from Channel in April 2015 after his terrorism risk be assess as low . a 12 - month post - exit police review in 2016 also find no terrorism concern . the case be close to Prevent at that point . there be no far Prevent referral in the five year between the case be close and the attack . the Prevent learning review examine how Prevent deal with the perpetrator ' s risk , and how far the improvement make to Prevent since he be refer seven year prior would have impact on his management . the review consider both the handling of the case at the time and the change that have be make to Prevent since the referral in 2014 . it examine how far those change address any problem identify , and then make a series of recommendation . the reviewer find that " from the material review , the assessment in term of " the perpetrator ' s " vulnerability be problematic and this ultimately lead to questionable decision making and sub - optimal handling of the case during the time he be engage with Prevent and Channel . " it identify that the vulnerability assessment framework be not follow , with the perpetrator ' s symptom be prioritise over address the underlie cause of his vulnerability . the reviewer ultimately find that , while Prevent policy and guidance at the time be mostly follow , the case be exit from Prevent too quickly . the reviewer identify six issue : the support give do not tackle all of the vulnerability identify ; record keeping be problematic and the rationale for certain decision be not explicit ; responsibility between police and the local authority be blur ; the tool use for identify an individual ' s vulnerability to radicalisation be outdate ; the school that make the referral to Prevent should have be involve in discussion to help determine risk and appropriate support ; and the tasking of the intervention provider be problematic , with a miscommunication lead to only one session be provide instead of two . the reviewer then examine how far change in the Prevent programme since 2016 have address these issue . the reviewer recognise the significant change that have be make to Prevent since the perpetrator be manage , in particular the introduction of the statutory Prevent and Channel duty under the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 . the reviewer conclude that over the intervene period there have be considerable change to policy and guidance for both the police and the wide Prevent arena , include Channel . while a number of the issue in the perpetrator ' s case would most likely not be repeat today , there be still a number of area that could be consider as require further work to mitigate future failure . the reviewer make four recommendation for action to far strengthen Prevent . these be to improve the referral process , strengthen the initial intelligence assessment process , update the tool use to identify vulnerability to be draw into terrorism , and to not reduce data retention period . since the report , the Home Office and counter - terrorism policing have fully implement all four recommendation . first , a single national referral form be launch to encourage a consistent approach to referral , build this into new training package and mandate its use via statutory guidance . secondly , training have be deliver to police staff to strengthen the initial intelligence check stage , ensure their understanding of Prevent be robust . thirdly , a new Prevent assessment framework be roll out in September 2024 , which replace the tool previously use to assess all referral and case in the Prevent system . fourthly , datum retention period be fully review in 2023 , and a joint decision be take by the Home Office and counter - terrorism policing to maintain retention review period at six year , or six year after the 12 - month review for Channel case . in addition to the publication of the Prevent learning review , we recognise the significant concern that remain over the way in which Prevent deal with the perpetrator , as well as the need to ensure that the recommendation it suggest for improve the scheme have be properly implement . last week , I set out to the House a series of new reform institute by the Government to strengthen the Prevent programme , recognise the vital work do by officer across the country to keep people safe . that include the creation of a new independent Prevent commissioner . I can today inform the House that the Home Secretary have ask the Prevent commissioner to review the Prevent programme ' s interaction with the perpetrator in this case , and ensure the implementation of all relevant recommendation . we will ensure that the Amess family have the support they need to engage with the Prevent commissioner in this work , so that they can have confidence that it will get to the truth about any failing in the scheme . two far important issue have be raise that be relevant to this case — local policing and Members ' security . on local policing , concern have be raise by the Amess family about the way in which Essex police handle this case . a complaint have be make , and refer back to the local force by the Independent Office for Police Conduct for consideration . that process must be allow to follow its course . however , I can inform the House that the Home Secretary have write to the chief constable and the police and crime commissioner of Essex police ask they to set out how the investigation will be conduct , and to be keep update as the investigation progress . member ' security be something the Home Secretary and I care deeply about , and I know it be a matter to which Mr Speaker attach the utmost importance , as will all member across the House . a review of security measure for mp commission under the previous Government have conclude , and all the recommendation have be implement . we must ensure that the learning from this case have be properly implement . I take this opportunity to thank Mr Speaker for his continue leadership on these matter . the Speaker ' s Conference be specifically consider what reform be necessary far to improve mps ' security and safety , which be another important step . the Leader of the House , the Home Secretary and I look forward to work closely with Mr Speaker and all member to ensure that the fact of the appalling murder of Sir David be properly consider as part of the Speaker ' s Conference ' s work , and that the Parliamentary Security Department implement the recommendation it make follow the review it conduct in the aftermath of Sir David ' s death . I be also grateful to previous Home Secretaries and Security Ministers for their effort in this area . our democracy be precious , and this Government will defend it against any and all threat , not least through the defend democracy taskforce , where we be mount a whole - of - government response to combat these threat , include ensure that elect representative can perform their duty safely and without fear . to conclude , I pay tribute once more to Sir David . he be a giant of this House and we miss he dearly . in all that he do , Sir David epitomise public service at its good . it be beyond a tragedy that we can no long seek his advice or rely on his wisdom . we can , though , follow his example and devote ourselves every day to the task of build a well , safe Britain . that be our share challenge , and under this government , nothing will matter more . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I start by thank the Security Minister for provide advance sight of his statement and advance sight of the Prevent learning review into Sir David Amess ' s tragic murder . I thank he for the courtesy and collegiality with which he have conduct our discussion on this topic in recent day . let I add my word to those of the Security Minister in remember our colleague , Sir David Amess . all of those who serve with he in this House hold he in great affection and the high regard . he be a colleague who be love , and be remember fondly , across the House . his particular form of charm , kindness and good humour be something that everybody who ever meet David will remember . every day , I walk into this Chamber and see his shield up there on the wall opposite — I see Jo Cox ' s , too — and I remember David and the loss that we , everyone in his constituency and most of all his family have suffer . I speak early today to Sir David ' s wife , Julia , and I pay tribute to she and her daughter for the courage and fortitude they have show over these past few year in campaign to get the answer they need . I also thank the former Member of Parliament for Southend West , Anna Firth , who have be support Julia and her family throughout this difficult time . I thank the Home Secretary , as well , for meet Lady Julia recently . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for take the time to do that . turn to the Prevent learning review , which I recently receive and which I believe be about to be publish , I notice that it be a redacted version . I would be grateful if the Security Minister confirm that nothing material have be redact . I be sure that it have not , but it would help to have that clarify . we hear in the Security Minister ' s statement — and I thank he for the thoughtful and consider way in which he make it — that the Prevent learning review identify a number of failing in the way that Prevent handle the murderer of our late colleague , and that there have be opportunity for further intervention . while I welcome the fact that the report have be publish , and that the new Prevent commissioner will conduct a further review , there be still question relate to this case and other that perhaps merit a more formal inquiry to ensure that we get to the bottom of it . there be other case where there be question around whether perpetrator of violence either encounter Prevent and could have be well identify and interdict , or encounter mental health service . those that may merit further inquiry include : the case of Ahmed Hassan , where 50 people be injure on a tube train follow the detonation of a device ; the case of Usman Khan on London Bridge ; the case of Khairi Saadallah , who murder three man in Reading ; and , the Southport case that we have discuss in this House recently . it strike I that there be systemic issue , both with the failure of Prevent to identify and stop potential perpetrator and , associate with that , with the operation of the mental health system and whether more could be do . because these be systemic issue , I think a more formal inquiry be merit , and I would welcome the Security Minister ' s view on that . on the more systemic issue , there be two thing on which I would be interested to hear the Security Minister ' s response . I mention they to he individually a few day ago . the first be that in the past 26 year , 94 out of 101 murder commit by terrorist in the United Kingdom since 1999 be commit by islamist terrorist . that be 94 % , yet for the most recent figure available , only 13 % of the Prevent caseload relate to islamist extremism . that strongly suggest on the face of it that Prevent be under - engage those with islamist ideology who go on to commit serious offence . I know that the Shawcross review in part address that issue , but it be so serious and the disparity so stark that I would appreciate the Security Minister ' s view on that . that be a topic that a further inquiry might address . the second area , which the Security Minister and I briefly discuss on Monday evening , concern the Mental Health Bill currently make its way through the House of Lords . many of the case entail extremist terrorist ideology , but many also touch on mental health issue and whether well treatment should be give or , indeed , whether people should be section and detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 to protect the public . that consideration be relevant , of course , to the Valdo Calocane case , as well as to some of the other case I have mention . the Bill as draft , for reason that Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care have set out , make it hard to detain people under the Mental Health Act . I be concerned that that might inadvertently have adverse implication for public safety , if people who should be detain under the Mental Health Act to protect the public might now not be detain . that be a matter of concern . I know that the Security Minister will want to respond specifically to that issue . this matter start from a terrible tragedy . Sir David be more than just a love colleague : he be a husband and father who lose his life in the course of do his duty as a Member of Parliament . it be testimony to he — and a memorial that will last forever — that Southend be now a city , but let we also learn the lesson and take the action need to ensure that this do not happen again . I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for the point he have raise and for how he have approach the statement . he mention — I be pleased that he do — that he have speak to Lady Amess this morning . let I take the opportunity to reiterate how courageous the Home Secretary and I think that the Amess family have be in pursue answer about Sir David ' s murder . they , entirely understandably , want the Government to publish the Prevent learning review , and we have do that today . as I reference early , the Home Secretary have also ask the independent Prevent commissioner to look carefully at the detail of this case , and we will progress that at pace . the Home Secretary , as I reference early , have also write to Essex police about this matter . let I also say that we continue to want to work very closely with the Amess family . the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I stand ready to meet they again in the near future to discuss what more we might be able to do to support they . the shadow Home Secretary specifically ask I about redaction in the Prevent learning review . I be happy to confirm that nothing material have be redact . the report be now live on gov . uk and contain only minimal redaction to obscure the name of people who work with the perpetrator , include teacher and police officer , and personal information about the perpetrator ' s family as well as some national security sensitivity . nothing material have be redact . I say to the shadow Home Secretary that I hope there be much common cause here . I hope he will acknowledge that there be a number of reform to the Prevent programme , which we have recently reference , include with regard to the point he rightly make about mental health provision . I will say a bit more about that in a moment . let I respond to the shadow Home Secretary ' s particular point about the threat from islamist extremism and the referral to Prevent . he be right that we should never forget the horrendous death toll cause by islamist extremism over the past 20 year . it be the foremost threat that we face , and we must and will address it head - on . last year , the number of islamist referral to Prevent increase by 17 % , but that be from too low a base . work be already under way to improve ideology training and build awareness of the ideology that drive radicalisation . we should be clear about the fact that the threat be evolve fast . in October , the director general of MI5 say that 75 % of counter - terrorism work be of islamist extremism in nature and 25 % be extreme right wing , and that 13 % of those be investigate by MI5 be under the age of 18 . he flag that MI5 be see a " dizzying range of belief and ideology " . the Southport attack reflect how that particular threat be change . I come back to the shadow Home Secretary ' s point about mental health . as he know , the Government ' s mental health legislation be currently in the other place . the purpose of the Mental Health Act 1983 be to ensure that clinician have the power to detain and treat mentally unwell people who present a risk to themselves or to other . the new Bill will not change that . it be specifically design to make it more likely that those detain will seek help , complete their treatment successfully and stay in contact with authority where need , reduce the risk to themselves and other . NHS England have ask every mental health trust to review the finding of the Care Quality Commission report publish in August and set out action plan for how they treat and engage with people who have serious mental illness , include how they work with other agency such as the police . the trust have also be instruct not to discharge people if they do not attend appointment . I hope that go some way to answer the shadow Home Secretary ' s question , but I be happy to continue the conversation with he . I thank my hon . friend the Minister , and of course the Home Secretary , for come to this place for this statement . none of we in the House can imagine the pain , the suffering and the anger that the Amess family be go through after lose their beloved Sir David : their father and husband . I have meet the family , and they be still in absolute devastation . we should hold they in our thought today . we should never forget Sir David . I pay tribute to he and to his family for the way in which they have conduct themselves throughout this whole sorry affair . I will continue work closely with the family as well as with the Home Secretary and her team to ensure that they get the support and the answer that they need . we will never forget Sir David in Southend . we will shortly be put some memory board up on the Chalkwell lifeguard station that reflect Sir David ' s life and our journey to become a city . I thank Lady Julia and the local councillor for work closely with I on the project . I welcome the news today that the Prevent commissioner will be review this case and the implementation of recommendation in relation to it . I be glad to hear that the Home Secretary have write to Essex police about the complaint that have be log . I thank she for her support on that . it be important that that be see through so that once again the family get the answer that they deserve . I ask the Minister , and obviously the Home Secretary , to give I an assurance that they will continue to work closely with I and , most importantly , the Amess family , so that we can get they those answer and give they the comfort to enable they to move on with their life . they will never forget , but we can help they to move forward . I very grateful to my hon . friend , not least because this be an issue of the most profound importance to his constituent . he be completely right that we must hold Sir David ' s family in our thought and in our heart today . he be also completely right that we should strive to ensure — and I know that we will — that we never forget Sir David . my hon . friend be in his place close to where I remember Sir David use to stand . Sir David be , among many other thing , a complete master of the pre - recess Adjournment debate . I can see he now stand there confidently , expertly and authoritatively reel off a very long list of request that he completely expect the Government to get on with and deliver for his constituent . he be truly inspirational . we will never forget he . I absolutely give my hon . friend the assurance he seek that we will continue to work closely with the family and with all hon . member to ensure that , through the work of the independent Prevent commissioner and the work I reference early with regard to the Home Secretary write to Essex police , the family get the answer that they rightly deserve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful as always to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . what happen to Sir David Amess be a terrible tragedy . though I be new to this House , I have hear many story of his kindness and his compassion , and I know that he be sorely miss across these Benches . we owe it to Sir David ' s grieve family and to the people of Southend to ensure that a tragedy like that can never happen again . that mean ensure that our counter - terrorism strategy be fit for purpose and able to work with community to tackle the modern challenge that our world be face . the Liberal Democrats have long raise question about whether Prevent be well place to deliver that . as we have learn over recent week , these failure be not happen in isolation , so it be right that the Government have ask the Prevent commissioner to look at this case . I would welcome further assurance that the commissioner will have a wide - range remit to take a comprehensive look at Prevent . I urge the Minister again to put the role on a statutory footing . the remit must include look at how Prevent communicate with other agency such as local authority and different police force . local community need to be at the centre of our counter - terrorism strategy , whether that mean keep they safe or ensure they be effectively engage . will the Minister outline how community will be consult on any upcoming counter - extremism strategy ? as the Minister mention , this tragic case have also bring to light question about mps ' safety . will he please provide some more detail on how the defend democracy taskforce be progress with its work , particularly on help to keep member and their family safe ? it be my hope that we can continue to work across the House to deliver the effective counter - terrorism strategy that our country deserve . we owe it to the Amess family to make that a reality . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the way in which she have approach the statement and for the sensible and reasonable point she make , as she always do . she make an important point about the role and remit of the independent commissioner . I hope that she , like all hon . member , would acknowledge that Lord Anderson be superbly qualified to fulfil the role . he be an expert in this area of public policy , and he bring authority , credibility and integrity to the role . the Home Secretary and I look forward to work closely with he but , of course , I reiterate the point about his independence . the hon . Lady rightly raise the importance of the work that be take place across Government on counter - extremism . that work be be progress very closely with other Departments , specifically the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . it be a priority for this Government and we will endeavour to update the House in the relatively near future about its progress . finally , I be grateful to the hon . Lady for reference the work of the defend democracy taskforce . this initiative be set up by the previous Government , but we think it be fundamental to ensure that those people who step forward to serve as elect representative , whether in this House or in local government as police and crime commissioner or metro Mayors , be able to perform their duty without fear or favour . the remit of the defend democracy taskforce will ensure the most effective cross - Government response , work with operational partner and law enforcement so that those elect representative can go about their duty unencumbered by the completely unacceptable harassment and intimidation that we continue to see . Sir David Amess be a hugely respected parliamentarian of massive popularity across all party and in his wide community . he work every day with true compassion to improve the life of resident in Southend West and Leigh , Southend East and Rochford and more widely . my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , and I bring that legacy with we as we continue the hard work of represent our community . I be pleased that the Prevent learning review publish today have look into the attack on Sir David Amess . I commend the hard work of his family , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh , the former MP for Southend West and the Home Office , who be commit to prevent such horrific attack in future . we must do everything in our power to prevent anything so tragic from ever happen again . my thought and prayer will always be with his friend and family . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his word . let I reiterate what he and the shadow Home Secretary say about Anna Firth . we be grateful for her support and the contribution that she continue to make . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , my hon . friend have just provide I with an opportunity to offer one furth personal recollection of Sir David . he respond to my maiden speech in 2011 , which I make from the Opposition Benches . it be , by any metric , a pretty average maiden speech , but the warmth of his response have stay with I forever . from that point , every time we see each other we would reminisce about how overly generous he have be about it . for that , and for many other reason , I will always be incredibly grateful to David Amess . I thank the Minister for his generous tribute to Sir David . Southend be now a city , so we comfort ourselves that on that , at least , he win in the end . we all miss he , not least myself . I welcome what the Minister say about an inquiry into whether Essex police could have do more to protect he . I welcome the Speaker ' s Conference on MPs ' security . the Minister know that I have great regard for he , but I regret to hear that Prevent may have act sub - optimally — that be an appalling whitehall euphemism for error that may have contribute to the death of an MP in the line of duty . in addition to those possible failure , the murderer in Southport have multiple interaction with Prevent , yet still those three innocent child be tragically murder . we have spend a fortune on Prevent , but it seem that , ultimately , it do not do what it say on the tin . I understand that the Amess family , rightfully seek answer , have ask if the error that may have occur in Sir David ' s case , and that almost certainly occur in Southport , could be look into in more detail under the auspex of the Southport inquiry . that seem a reasonable request , give the exceptional circumstance . will the Minister and the Home Secretary , who rightly be in her place beside he , consider that request very seriously , and hopefully grant it ? it may be hard for new member to understand how difficult this be for more experienced member , such as the right hon . Gentleman , who spend so many year on these green Benches , work so closely with a much beloved colleague . I see that the right hon . Gentleman be sit below another shield . member across the House understand the pain experience with the loss of our colleague , and our share determination to work together and with other to do everything we can to ensure that those who serve in this House have the support and the protection that they need and deserve . the right hon . Gentleman rightly take the opportunity to reference one of Sir David ' s many achievement : the city status of Southend . that certainly would not have happen without Sir David ' s campaign over many year . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for acknowledge the work that will take place with Essex police . I understand the important concern that he have raise about Prevent . the term of reference of the Southport inquiry rightly be still a matter of discussion between the Home Secretary , the Home Office and the family in that particular case , so I be unable to make a judgment about that at this point . what I can do be not only reiterate the point that I have already make , but offer a further commitment from the Home Secretary and I to look very carefully at this , to continue the conversation with the late Sir David ' s family and other member , and to work out the good mechanism to provide they and all member of this House with the answer that they both want and deserve . the murder of Sir David Amess cut to the very heart of democracy . clearly , he be the very good of British . the Minister talk about parliamentary security in his consider statement . I have speak to many colleague across the House who have say that they feel that abuse and harassment be peak , and many feel unsafe . of course , it be unwise to go into detail of specific measure , but be the Minister confident that these measure will make we feel safe in this House ? as always , I be grateful to my hon . friend for his thoughtful contribution . " good of British " be precisely the right phraseology to apply to Sir David . my hon . Friend ask an important question about how we defend our democracy . he ask about my confidence in the work that we be do to ensure that member of this House and elect representative elsewhere can perform their duty with the confidence that they be safe . I must be honest with he and say that that be an ongoing process . all of we in this place will have experience threat , harassment and intimidation . that be bad particularly for woman member . it be a stain on our society that there be those out there who feel that they can abuse female elect representative . what I can give my hon . friend be an absolute assurance that we be organise and marshal the resource that we have across Government , work with law enforcement and operational partner , and co - operate very closely with you , Mr Speaker , and the House authority , to ensure that those who step forward to serve can do so with the security and comfort of know they be properly protect . I will leave no stone unturned in my work with colleague across Government to ensure that be the case . where individual have concern , wherever they may be , I will always make myself available to discuss those concern with they . I echo the Minister ' s praise for Sir David , who be a loved friend to so many , include many member in this House . I welcome today ' s statement , which be a sobering reminder of the importance of get the Prevent programme right . the seriousness of the statement contrast sharply with the immediate reaction and debate that follow Sir David ' s murder , when there be , to be frank , a bizarre and misplace rush to talk about issue such as online civility , rather than the clear threat that be behind the murder . will the Minister join I in say it be time for an end to the denialism we often see around the threat from Islamism , and , recognise what he say about the change nature of the threat , do he agree that as the major terror threat that we face , islamist extremism should always be Prevent ' s top priority ? the hon . Gentleman speak with long experience from work both at the heart of Government and in the Home Office . he make some important point , and I assure he that I will give they further consideration . he be also right , though , to reference the change nature of the threat . of course , islamist extremism present the single big challenge that we face as a country , as the director general of MI5 make clear in his annual threat lecture back in October . the hon . Gentleman will have hear my early response to the shadow Home Secretary on the number of referral — we be look very closely at that . I be grateful to he for his contribution , which I will reflect on far . I be always happy to discuss this issue with he . sadly , I never get to meet Sir David , but , as we have hear from member across the House today , his reputation go before he ; he be a loved and value colleague , respect across the whole House and across all Benches . do the Minister agree that Sir David exemplify the good tradition of this place , work hard and work together to make real change ? can we also take a moment to express our respect for the officer who turn up at these scene ? as a former police officer , I have attend many such scene , and know it be something we both never want to do and hope never to do again . I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s characterisation of Sir David and his work ethic . I also take this opportunity to join he in pay tribute to those brave police officer who step forward under the most exceptionally difficult circumstance for the service they perform . I thank my hon . friend for his service , too . I remember the day Sir David Amess be tragically murder very well . I be serve as Lancashire ' s police and crime commissioner at the time , and I remember have initial conversation with serve member of this House , include the former Member for Hyndburn , Sara Britcliffe , who , along with her dad , have be lifelong friend of Sir David . I learn an awful lot about the sort of man he be and how much he mean to people in Parliament from the reaction of the Members I speak to that day . I will turn to the Minister ' s statement . the reviewer identify six issue . I will not read they all out in full , obviously , but they include not tackle all the vulnerability identify , problematic record keeping , the rationale for certain decision not be explicit , responsibility between police and local authority be blur , the tool use for identify the individual ' s vulnerability to radicalisation be outdate , and so on . these word and phrase could have be take from the statement about the tragic incident in Southport — something else that be incredibly important to we , as a fellow north - west MP — but they could also have be take from many inquiry , review and statement over many year on similar case . the shadow Home Secretary ' s point about the differential between the number of murder that have islamist terrorism at their heart be over 90 % , while only 13 % of the casework be link to islamist ideology , be also quite stark . for I , the issue here be around process — the quality of follow process and quality of work — and the interlinking between different public service , but also around culture and how our public service in different way have dance around the issue of islamist extremism , and whether Prevent have deliver in identify the threat and effectively deal with it . I echo the suggestion that it be time to take a step back from all the individual review , inquiry and statement and take a look at the big picture . I be not go to press the Minister for a specific answer right now ; in line with the tone all member have take this afternoon , I do not think this be the time for point scoring or try to secure individual commitment at the Dispatch Box . I would just like to ask the Minister , as he go forward , look at this issue , Southport and other , to step back and ask whether Prevent be serve its intend purpose and offer value for money , whether it be keep the public safe from terrorism , and whether it be time to take a broad , more strategic look , rather than a case - by - case look . as a former police and crime commissioner , the hon . Gentleman bring a weight of experience to the House that we appreciate hugely . he be right that the learn review identify a number of point that can not just sit on a shelf ; they have to be action . we have to ensure that the process that be in place be as effective as they possibly can be . I agree with he on the disparity between the number of islamist attack and the number of Prevent referral ; I will repeat my early point that there be a 17 % increase in those specific referral in the year end 31 March 2024 , but I agree with his analysis . he make some important point . what I can say to he be that there be a number of measure — include measure I have reference today , as well as other in my Southport statement last week — that I think will go a significant way towards address the concern that the hon . Gentleman have rightly raise . I will have to ensure that the House have confidence on that . he make a particularly interesting point at the conclusion of his remark about step back and take a strategic look at whether the process and resource that be in place be appropriate . I will do that . I will also work very closely with Lord Anderson , who will bring a huge amount of analysis and value in this area . I very much welcome the opportunity to work with he , and with all member , include the hon . Gentleman , as we accept this as a share endeavour to ensure that these attack never happen again . first , I want to put on the record my sympathy for Sir David ' s family and friend . as a new MP , I do not have the privilege of know he , but I vividly remember the day he be murder . from the warm word speak across the House , he be clearly highly regarded and be sorely miss . I thank the Security Minister for his detailed statement . can he assure I that the lesson from these Prevent learning review be learn , that all recommendation be implement , and that there be appropriate tie - in not just between local authority , police , national security and national crime agency , but with the defend democracy taskforce , so that we can work collectively to ensure that tragedy such as this can never happen again ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his remark . he make an important observation about the importance of co - ordination and of ensure that locally , regionally and nationally all the relevant agency and service be in place and be talk and communicate with each other in the most effective way . he be right to refer to the defend democracy taskforce — a mechanism that I chair — which bring together a whole - of - Government response and ultimately provide the fulcrum point for discuss and act on these matter in government . it be our specific responsibility to ensure that the service he refer to be properly resource and co - ordinating properly with each other . I be grateful for the point he have make . I agree with colleague that Sir David Amess ' s kindness know no party boundary . in particular , I reflect that he find himself in a place of unexpected and certainly unsought popularity in the SNP group in 2015 when , as a group of new MPs , it turn out that barely any of we have not receive a kind word , a little bit of advice or certainly some direction from Sir David in those opening week . he be remember kindly by everybody in our group , give that it be a group of newbie at the time , so I want to put that on the record and send my thought to his family . I thank the Security Minister for the statement . will he set out how an ongoing assessment of the efficiency of Prevent and Channel will be undertake go forward ? do he feel that he have the full co - operation of social medium company in particular in take forward his work ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his point and for his reflection on Sir David . he make an important point about the mechanism the Government will use move forward . clearly , the public inquiry will provide a very important forum to ensure that the lesson that have be identify , and further lesson that will no doubt be identify , be properly action and implement . in advance of that , as I think he will be aware , we have commission Lord Anderson to look at these matter . I think he will acknowledge , as other member will , that Lord Anderson be precisely the right person : independent of Government , with previous experience as an independent reviewer of terrorism legislation ; a recognise legal mind , with credibility and authority in this field ; and a Member of the other place . we want to work collaboratively with he to ensure that we satisfy ourselves , and therefore member across the House and people right around the country , that the mechanism in place be fit for purpose . that be a significant priority for the Government and I can give the hon . member an assurance that we will not rest until the process in place be fit for purpose . I associate myself with the comment from both side of the House about Sir David Amess . one challenge in address islamist extremism be the proliferation of hate preacher around the world , both online and in person . I be very concerned about the prospect of the preacher Mohamed Hoblos visit Middlesbrough later this month . will the Minister set out the step he will be take with regard to that specific case and the broad action he will take to address hate preacher around the world ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . he will understand that I be somewhat limited in what I can say , but I can tell he that the United Kingdom have a range of disruptive immigration measure at our disposal to refuse entry and cancel permission if it be assess that a foreign national ' s presence in the UK be not conducive to the public good . I can give he an assurance today that we will look carefully at the circumstance that he have helpfully raise . I thank the Minister very much for his word . none of we who be privileged to know Sir David Amess be not mindful of both his goodness and his faith — he and I share the same faith . as a nation blight by terrorism and action by evil people who believe that they have the right to take life , it be clear that the power to address those people must be accessible by intelligence service and that fund to suit must follow appropriately . the action that result in the death of Sir David and those three precious little girl be shocking . it be clear that there be not enough support for the Prevent programme . indeed , it fail and we all acknowledge that . we do not say that in an objectionable way , but in a way that be factual and evidential , and it be a point that we want to make . I hope that thing will change — I think that be what we be all look for — so that UK citizen be safe from known suspect . how can the Government ensure that public official and mps ' staff , who we have a responsibility to look after , be safe in our place of business , while always remember that we must be and will be accessible to our constituent who elect we to this place ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman , as I always be . both he and Sir David be and be true champion of this place . I know that the House be grateful to he for the important and constructive contribution he always make . his interest in , and experience of , terrorism be well known and long standing . he make a very important point about accessibility . all of we , as constituency MPs , rightly want to get out and meet our constituent , and make sure that they feel as if we be accessible to they . there be , on occasion , a balance to be strike to ensure we be able to perform our function and duty at a local level without fear or favour , while at the same time ensure that activity that take place locally and nationally be as safe and secure as possible . I give he an absolute assurance that these be matter to which we attach the most profound importance . we be work very closely with Mr Speaker on the work he be do on the Speaker ' s Conference . I can give the hon . Gentleman an assurance about the priority we attach to that important work . as a new member , I sadly never know Sir David Amess , but from what people have say about his dedication to his constituent and his good humour across the House , he be a model for all new member to follow . at the Home Affairs Committee last week , we hear from the permanent secretary about how Prevent be change and how the terror threat be change . as we can see from the learn review , there be clearly gap and there be lesson that still need to be learn . that require independent scrutiny and independent oversight . will the Minister tell we how the new Prevent commissioner will be able to provide the scrutiny we need ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend and I completely agree with his characterisation of Sir David as a model for all member — he be absolutely right about that . he raise a very important point , and I completely agree with his assessment of the learn review . it do identify a number of gap , and those be gap that will have to be close . he will understand what I mean by this , but I need to be careful not to seek to provide too much direction and guidance to the independent Prevent commissioner , not least because , know Lord Anderson , I do not think he would take too kindly to it . what I be completely confident in be that Lord Anderson have all the requisite skill , experience and credibility to provide that function . he be an outstanding appointment . the Home Secretary and I look forward to work very closely with he . far to the work he will be seek to do , I can give my hon . friend and the House an assurance that we will leave no stone unturned in do what need to be do to ensure that Prevent be fit for purpose and provide the confidence that people rightly want . as we have hear today and previously in this place from so many hon . member on both side of the House , Sir David be a loved and value colleague , and not just an MP , but a man with family and friend . sadly , I do not have the privilege of work with he in this place . we know that Sir David ' s killer exit the Prevent scheme many year before the attack take place . future action be , tragically , too late for Sir David and his family , but what step will be take to ensure that all relevant agency along the line do not just learn from but act on the lesson from the killer ' s ability to evade detection in the period lead up to his attack ? I completely agree with the point that my hon . friend make . she be right to highlight the difference between learn lesson and implement and act upon they . I can give she an assurance that , through the process announce previously and today , we have the mechanism to do that . that say , we will continue to have conversation with the Amess family and other to look at area where we might want to do more . I want to have those conversation soon rather than later . my final word , I be sure on behalf of the whole House , be to reiterate a collective tribute to Sir David Amess . he be an outstanding parliamentarian . he be greatly miss and we will never forget he . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Hansard will confirm that during question to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology early today , the Secretary of State — who be in his place — say that no Conservative Ministers have meet AstraZeneca representative follow the announcement of a £ 450 million investment to expand its Merseyside vaccine facility . the Secretary of State be wrong . publicly available transparency datum from the Treasury and the Secretary of State ' s own Department confirm that meeting do take place between AstraZeneca and my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , the then Chancellor , and my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . may I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on what to do , and may I offer the Secretary of State the opportunity to apologise and correct the record for the House ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order , and for give I notice of it . I trust that he notify the Secretary of State of his intention to raise it . should the Secretary of State feel that the record need to be correct , there be process whereby he may do so , but the hon . Gentleman have put his point on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . why detain the House ? why don ' t I just apologise now , and correct the record ? I be grateful to the hon . member for alert I to that information . I be happy to correct the record , and I be happy to apologise to he for say what I say early . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 247 . ] I should also correct the thrust of my argument this morning , which be that there be insouciance during the period between the March statement and the general election in July . actually , it be not insouciance ; it be just incompetence that mean they could not get the deal across the line . I thank the Secretary of State . Political Donations Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about a cap on political donation ; to make provision for a review to recommend the level at which such a cap should be set and to consider the impact of such a cap ; to make provision about political donation make by foreign national through company ; and for connected purpose . this be a Bill that will take big money out of british politic , protect our democracy from foreign interference , and restore public trust in our electoral system . for too long , our politic have be expose . it be far too easy for those who do not have the national interest of our country at heart , or who have make their wealth through illicit mean , to funnel money into british politic . the Bill be simple in its aim : to ensure that it be the people of this country , not the deep pocket of foreign billionaire , oligarchs or corporate interest , who decide our country ' s future in election and referendum . trust in our political system be falter . many people look at our politic and see a system rig in favour of the rich and powerful . a recent poll by YouGov find that more than two third of the british public support a limit on political donation . not - for - profit organisation such as Unlock Democracy , Spotlight on Corruption and Fair Vote say that that we should take swift action to tighten electoral finance legislation , or else risk democratic backsliding . the message be clear : people want change . we want big money kick out of politic . under our current system , however , there be no limit to what a single individual or business can donate . that be not democracy ; it be a bidding war for influence , ripe for exploitation by oligarchs and foreign billionaire . look at the mess this have result in . just over a month ago , people across Britain recoil in horror to read the news that the US billionaire Elon Musk plan to donate an uncapped amount of money to Reform . if he be to follow up that plan , we would be powerless to stop he . Most alarming be the past donation to the Conservative party from individual with link to the russian Government . this be not just about fairness ; it be about national security . Britain have long pride itself on be a beacon of democracy , but we must not be complacent . our political financial regulation have glare loophole that be open for exploitation by foreign money , funnel through UK - register company , opaque financial network and questionable donor . malign actor who do not share our value of tolerance , liberty and the rule of law should not have unrestricted access to our democracy . we know that hostile state seek to undermine our democracy all the time — we have see it in cyber - attack and disinformation campaign — yet our political finance law remain riddled with loophole that allow foreign and dark money to shape british politic . the Bill seek to close those gap , ensure that our election and referendum belong to the voter and not to foreign interest . this Bill seek to deliver two fair , necessary and overdue change . first , it will introduce a fair cap on political donation , as determine by a review , and secondly , it will close british politic to the influence of foreign money by prevent foreign donor from fund our politic . these be essential measure that must be bring into effect . we must protect our election from manipulation , and ensure that there be further transparency in political funding . in do so , we will help to restore faith in our democracy and introduce vital safeguard for our political institution . there be already a consensus in the House that foreign donation have no place in british politic , but that gap in the law allow this to happen . we must act now to close the legal loophole that allow these donation to flow unchecked . we in the House have a responsibility to uphold the integrity of our democracy , and it be our duty to drive the change that our country need . Britain have always be a nation that stand for fairness , democracy and integrity . it be time for we to take a firm stand against undue influence in our politic , and ensure that our democracy serve the people . the Bill be not radical ; it be reasonable , necessary and long overdue . it will ensure that political influence be not buy , but earn through genuine public support . introduce a cap on political donation be not about limit participation ; it be about make sure that every vote , every voice and every citizen matter equally in our political system . let we give control of british politic back to our constituent , not to unaccountable tech billionaire or those who seek to buy influence . let we renew our commitment to an open and fair democracy — one that belong to the people of this country , now and for generation to come . question put and agree to . order , that Manuela Perteghella , Dr Roz Savage , Ellie Chowns , Liz Jarvis , Sorcha Eastwood , James MacCleary , Claire Young , Mr Alistair Carmichael , Wera Hobhouse , Sarah Olney and Martin Wrigley present the Bill . Manuela Perteghella accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 183 ) . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move . that the Bill be now read a second time . the Government be use technology to grow the economy and create new job in order to empower citizen and deliver a small , smart state , but none of that be possible without datum . successive Governments fail to set out the extraordinary opportunity that datum present . our citizen have count the cost in slow growth , few job and flatline productivity ; in community that feel less safe because police officer be spend more time fill in form and less time out on the street , where we need they ; in hospital , where patient be leave wait long for the care that they so desperately need ; and when people queue up to register the death of a love one , or struggle to rent new home without the decade - old document that they need to prove their identity . an outdated approach to datum be hold Britain ' s economy back . this Bill will take the brake off , unleash a new era of wealth and opportunity for all . the Secretary of State say that successive government fail to act , but be it not the case that this Bill be almost identical to the one that the last Conservative Government introduce , which very nearly make it on to the statute book ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for point that out . indeed , a lot of this Bill be base on the one that his Government introduce . they call a general election , which halt it in its track . we offer to get that Bill through in wash - up , but that be turn down by the Government . we be here today to discuss a Bill that his Government could well have get through ; of course , they have 14 year to do so . I be grateful to he for point that out , and for no doubt support a Bill for which he claim so much credit . the smart datum measure in the Bill could make switch energy supplier as quick and easy as switch bank account . consumer will be able to compare utility price and find well deal , put money in their pocket . business will be force to innovate and improve their service , too . fast - grow firm will also benefit from the digital verification service that this Bill enable . today , people spend month wait to get paperwork sort for a new job . by help people to prove who they be without physical document , we will cut the time it take to get on the payroll , and give business the freedom to get on with growth . one of the big barrier to growth be the appalling state of Britain ' s crumble infrastructure . today , street be be endlessly dig up and re - dug up by different firm repair gas one year and water the next . at the same time , big infrastructure project have stall and fall silent for year . by offer a complete and accurate picture of the underground infrastructure , the national underground asset register will strengthen Britain ' s build bureaucracy . it will cut the time it take for worker on site to get the datum they need from six day to six second . that mean that they will be able to get on with build the road , railway and home that Britain so desperately need . today , a siloed approach to datum be slow the state down . patient be put through the same test again and again , and prescription error mean that they get the wrong medication . this be simply unacceptable . the NHS have one of the deep , most diverse dataset in the world , but the people who need that datum can not access it . by introduce mandatory information standard for all information technology supplier , this Bill will ensure that information can flow safely , securely and seamlessly through the healthcare system . can the Secretary of State outline the benefit that this Bill will have for my constituent in Harlow ? I be think in particular of resident with multiple prescription who struggle to quickly have the datum at their fingertip . my hon . friend be champion his constituent , and I be pleased to inform he that the Bill will deliver much more streamlined access to the healthcare system , from primary care right the way through to hospital , where information should flow freely , not just because of the incentive be put in place but the actual requirement . of course , when patient travel to their gp or to hospital , they will be able to count on far less disruption on the pavement and in the street , simply because of the underground asset register . those be just two example of how this Bill will benefit his constituent . the Bill will make it easy to introduce transformative new technology such as artificial intelligence . it will reduce duplication and error , and save our doctor and nurse time so that they can focus on the patient who need they the most . the same go for the police officer keep our country safe : the measure propose in this Bill will save they 1 . 5 million hour every single year . engage with the state today take time and effort , but I see no reason why it should . I create the new Government Digital Service to deliver efficient , convenient digital public service that be shape around citizen ' life . this Bill will bolster those effort . open banking benefit 12 million customer every year by allow they access to their datum . it have be a great success . do the Secretary of State see that as a model for how citizen can access their datum hold by the state ? smart datum underpin the service that the hon . Gentleman refer to . we see boundless opportunity for smart datum to be apply in new way , and the Bill before we will unlock some of those opportunity . I be grateful to he for get that on the record . an electronic register of birth and death will make life that little bit easy for a new parent or those who have lose a love one . however — some of my constituent have raise concern about how their information will be keep safely in the online register of birth and death . how will the Secretary of State ensure that the Government keep such information safely ? it be imperative that we reassure people up and down the country that their datum will be use safely and wisely , and that they will always remain in control of how their datum be use . I can give my hon . friend those reassurance . the House will notice that this Government have act with transparency when it come to inform the public how datum and the algorithm that process that datum be be use . just last week I release more algorithm for public scrutiny , so that they can be put into the algorithm playbook that we have release . from Department to Department , more of those algorithm will be make available as our resource allow . that be just one example of how we be use transparency to earn the public ' s trust . in the year before the general election , just one Department release an algorithm for public scrutiny . there be a great deal in this Bill that we can all support , but some difficult concept lurk within it , as I know the Secretary of State will recognise . he be talk about datum transparency . one of the issue of concern be about precisely what we mean by the " scientific research " on which datum may be employ , and precisely what we mean by " the public interest " that must be serve by that scientific research . we will not examine this issue on Second Reading , but may I ask he to commit to a proper examination of those concept as the Bill move forward , so that we can all understand what we mean and the public can get the reassurance that he describe ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for his inform intervention . I can assure he that we take this issue very seriously . I can also assure he that this be one of the issue on which we will go into considerable depth in Committee , and I be sure that his whip be hear of his interest in get on to that Committee . he be clearly volunteer to put in the hard yard to make sure that we get the Bill right . none of the thing that I have outline will succeed without trust . People will not use technology unless they be confident that it be be use safely , but we often lack the rigorous evidence that we need to take decision about the safety of our rapidly change online world . the provision in this Bill will allow researcher to access datum hold by platform , enable they to conduct robust independent research into online safety . I be grateful to peer for their dedication in rigorously scrutinise these measure . we have listen closely , and in response we have make some important change to the Bill . first , we have bring forward measure to strengthen data protection for child . information society service provider likely to be access by child will now have clear legal duty to consider how good to protect and support child when design their data - process activity . secondly , we have add a provision to help charity use email to engage with people who have previously support their charitable purpose . thirdly , we have commit to make it easy for people to navigate datum protection measure in a world transform by technology . in two rapidly grow sector — automate decision making and edtech — we will ask the Information Commissioner ' s Office to publish code of practice to give people the knowledge and confidence they need to use personal datum legally . the Secretary of State will be aware that clause 80 remove the exist right of individual not to be subject to solely automate decision - make process unless it involve a category of special datum . in practice , this might mean that journalist could have their datum process through ADM , which could pose significant risk to their source . what reassurance can he give I that these concern will be explore and assess as the Bill pass through the House ? the Bill improve the automate decision - make process , but individual attribute and sector will be impact and we will of course take that into consideration in Committee , where I be sure that issue will be raise . I be grateful to my hon . friend for put it on record on Second Reading . peer also add several measure during the Bill ' s Report stage . first , Baroness Owen run an admirable campaign to outlaw the creation of intimate image and deepfake . this horrific form of online abuse have a devastating impact on its victim . the Government will work with Baroness Owen to ensure that the drafting of intimate image abuse measure in Committee keep woman and girl safe . secondly , my Ministers will work with Opposition Members to explore the possibility of new security guidance for user of the national underground asset register , as propose by Viscount Camrose . I be confident that we will find a solution that be satisfactory to all . thirdly , Viscount Colville add a public interest test for scientific researcher seek to use clause 67 to process personal datum . however , expect scientist to define the outcome of their work in advance go against the unpredictable nature of research . many groundbreake discovery come from research with no clear public benefit at the start . the mrna - base vaccine that save million of life during the covid - 19 pandemic draw on curiosity - drive research that for year have have no practical application . today ' s AI revolution draw on decade - old neural network research that be long think unimportant . as the Royal Society have say , this additional public interest requirement would be an undue bureaucratic burden on researcher . for these reason , we will seek to overturn the measure . fourthly , many member will have observe Baroness Kidron ' s campaign on AI and copyright with keen interest . one of the extraordinary thing about Britain be our ability to support a cutting - edge AI sector and world - lead creative industry at the same time . both be fundamental to our future prosperity and standing in the world , and I refuse to choose between they . rise — rise — I will finish this section of my speech and then give way to those member who have a considerable interest in this area . let I say what I have to say , and then I will hear what hon . member would like to contribute and engage as fully as I can . the final framework must reward human creativity , incentivise innovation and provide the certainty require for long - term growth in both sector , but the importance and complexity of this issue mean that it should be consider through the live consultation . as I say in that consultation , legislation be ultimately likely to be need . of course the creative industry be excited about the inclusion of clause 135 to 139 , which they see as their guarantee and protection against the ravage of generative artificial intelligence . those clause be in the Bill to protect our creative industry . will the Secretary of State assure the House today that he will respect they and keep they in the Bill , with no attempt to water they down ? I pay tribute to those in the creative art sector who be in the House today . I know that , for people who engage in that kind of activity , it be not just a job ; it be a passion that come straight from the heart . they be emotionally connect in a profound way to the work that they create , which be a credit not just to they as individual but to our entire country . I can assure they that I have no intention at all of stand in the way of respect for their work . as we go through this process , it will be essential that we listen to the voice from both side . the consultation that be currently live be a meaningful one , and I assure the House that I be engage with it . I look forward to hear all the voice in the consultation and , as I have say , it be likely that legislation on this specific issue will come out of it . that would give the House an opportunity to go through this issue in enormous detail at the appropriate time . I be listen carefully and I want to engage with all the voice throughout the Committee stage and ensure that the debate continue . some creative be argue that the current consultation could be undermine because it already promote a preferred option , which be the handing over of creative ' intellectual property to the AI sector . that would include creative such as composer , lyricist and writer — one of whom the Secretary of State be sit next to . some of they be struggle to earn a fair living , although perhaps not our hon . friend the Minister . AI model be be train on those creative ' work without their knowledge or consent . without adequate protection for those creative and without great transparency over when their intellectual property be be scrape , the creative industry as we know they will cease to exist . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that those creative voice , of whom there be 2 . 4 million in Britain , be hear throughout the Committee stage ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her offer of advocacy for the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) . I have never know he to lack a voice for self - advocacy . however , should the time arise , I know that she will be on his speed dial . the issue that she have raise be of profound importance . as I have say , I recognise not just the economic issue but the personal connection that creative have with the art and work that they create . I have absolutely no intention of disempowere they in that relationship , and I certainly have no intention whatsoever of take away any right from those individual without any consultation . we recognise that people in the creative art sector be make representation , as they absolutely should be , and I listen carefully to they , but this country have the third large AI market in the world . there be young people currently study in school , college and university around the country who aspire to work in the technology sector , and they should not have to leave the country and work abroad in order to fulfil their potential . of the people who have contribute so much to our economy , of course those in the creative art be absolutely front and centre . alongside they be the technology sector , which be provide enormous opportunity in job creation , wealth creation and innovation right across the country . part of this country be become a magnet for talent , not only from this country but from around the world , and I do not want anybody to feel that they have to leave the country to seek opportunity to exploit their talent and potential as individual . I believe there be a way forward , and I assure the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) that , whatever people think of the consultation , I be listen very closely . the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms have be engage fully , and we take these issue incredibly seriously . we will continue to do so in Committee and beyond . I be a great admirer of the Secretary of State , and I admire his belief in his cause today . the creative sector will have hear his commitment to listen , and I thank he for ensure the openness and engagement of his Ministers on this issue . in the spirit of listening , will he agree from the Dispatch Box today to meet those creative who be keen to have an audience with he on this significant issue ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s work on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee in scrutinise these area and for be a voice for the sector . it go without say that I would be delighted to meet the people he reference , and the same go for member on both side of the House . whether I can fit every one of the 2 . 5 million people who work in the sector into my office , I do not know . it be a big office than I have seven month ago , but I be not sure I can fit everyone in . however , I will do my absolute well ; I be here to listen and learn , as I have be from the outset , and I be here to find a way through . it be time to reconcile these issue and to give certainty to people in both the creative art sector and the technology sector . I believe the Bill be the moment for this House to provide the certainty that both side need as we move forward . fifthly and finally , let I say a word on Lord Lucas ' s amendment . People will use digital identity to buy a house , to rent a car and to get a job . the intention of clause 45 ( 6 ) be to force public authority to share whether someone ' s information , such as their sex , have change when disclose information under clause 45 as part of a digital verification check . that would mean pass on an excessive amount of personal datum . share such change by default would be an unjustifiable invasion of people ' s privacy , and I be unable to say that clause 45 ( 6 ) be compatible with human right law , which be why we will seek to overturn the amendment . the Secretary of State be very generous in give way . before he finish , may I ask he about the situation we be create with this Bill and the Online Safety Act 2023 of set a framework within which regulator need to operate and cover a good deal of ground ? do he think the advent of these piece of legislation make a strong case for a new Committee of this House , and perhaps a Joint Committee , to maintain scrutiny of ongoing digital regulation ? if so , will he be prepared to advance that case ? that be the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s second audition of the day . I be open - minded on these issue , and I take leadership from the Leader of the House on Committee matter . I congratulate the Secretary of State on this Bill , and on set out the importance and ubiquity of datum ; the current confusion on datum sharing , data format , datum processing and data usage ; and the lack of action by the previous Government to address some of these issue . give the evolution of AI technology , its simply be a method of process datum and its grow importance and application , can this Bill possibly address all future issue ? be this Bill the Government ' s last word on datum , or be it their first word ? of course , we should have have this Bill two year ago . we have see enormous progress on AI technology since then . I have be at the Paris summit for the past few day , and I see where this technology be head . huge advance in the power of AI and the move towards artificial general intelligence be happen fast than anybody imagine . I can not guarantee that this Bill will be sound for time immemorial , but I can say that it be fit for the moment in which we be live . I reassure my hon . friend that all our regulator have be task with assess how non - frontier AI , as apply throughout the economy and society , will impact the sector they regulate . the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology be offer assistance , where need , as we assess the impact across our society . my hon . friend refer to a general - purpose technology , and it will therefore be apply and deploy in different part of the economy and society in very different way . we must make sure that , as a society , we deploy it safely . once we ensure that the technology be safe , we can embrace it and explore all the opportunity that it offer . it be hard to imagine a dataset in which it be more important to maintain confidentiality than patient datum . this Bill make change to the Health and Social Care Act 2012 . can the Secretary of State guarantee that there be no change to patient confidentiality ? I be pleased to give the hon . member that assurance . datum reform could not be more urgent or more necessary . government have spend year wax lyrical about the immense promise of technology . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will carry on , I be afraid . the failure of previous government to deliver datum reform have undermine that promise , stall economic growth and leave our public service wrap up in red tape , and our citizen have pay the price . this Bill will smash the silos stand in the way of reform and remove the brake that be hold Britain back . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Conservatives want Britain to be a science and technology superpower , and that mean fully unlock all the benefit of datum . as a country , we must make the appropriate use of datum more widespread . that would cut red tape , make research easy , create new job , deliver economic growth and enable people to access public service more efficiently . a data - enable economy and society be good for everyone , which be why we introduce the groundbreaking Data Protection and Digital Information Bill before the last election and progress it through all Commons stage , as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) rightly say . we still believe in those reform and call on the Government to build on they , but we also recognise the concern around individual right , privacy , AI and copyright that have be raise in relation to labour ' s Bill . when the previous Government leave office last July , we have turn Britain into one of the world ' s lead tech economy . we be home to more tech unicorn than any other european country , and more than France and Germany combine . Britain have become the world ' s third large AI ecosystem , with pioneer start - up create new job and innovative product . we lead the way on develop safe ai through the world ' s first AI safety summit and AI Safety Institute . our original Bill complement those achievement and would have accelerate Britain ' s progress towards become a highly datum - enable economy and society . in particular , our proposal for a digital verification service framework be replicate in this Bill . it be also clear that this Bill have be inform by consultation carry out under the last Conservative Government on the governance of digital identity . similarly , put the national underground asset register on a statutory footing be a conservative idea , and we welcome its inclusion in this Bill . More than 700 different organisation dig hole to install and maintain underground asset every year . expand and standardise the digital map of pipe and cable will help local council , utility provider and other to well co - ordinate their activity , hopefully reduce the 60 , 000 accidental damage incident that occur every year . however , the security of the register must be of the high possible standard , give that the information be highly sensitive . the amendment table on register security by Viscount Camrose and Lord Markham in the other place should be take seriously by the Government . while the asset register provision will turn our aim of join - up thinking into reality , this Labour Government ' s approach to AI and copyright be a total failure , and no join - up thinking have happen at all . last December , the Government finally launch their consultation , just as the Christmas break start . why do Labour wait six month when this area of policy move so quickly , with AI firm , the creative industry and the public need legal certainty and firm answer ? when the consultation finally arrive , the creative industry sector be unanimous in describe labour ' s proposal as completely unfit for purpose . for the sector , Labour ' s idea of impose a requirement on creative , such as journalist , songwriter and film maker , to proactively opt out of datum mining be not the solution . labour ' s proposal could align the UK ' s approach closely with the EU regime under the digital single market copyright directive , which have produce widespread uncertainty about what constitute a valid reservation of right . labour ' s approach to copyright and AI be the ultimate test of its credibility on tech and creative industry issue , and it have fail — the entire sector know it . rather than solve a problem , Labour be the problem . I know the hon . member fancy himself as a bit of a tech bro , but he should recognise that much of the anxiety in the creative industry sector be cause by the dither and delay of the Conservatives ' time in Government and their failure to grasp the issue . as ever , we on the Government Benches be do the hard work . the last Conservative Government leave Britain with a world - class creative industry sector . it be Labour ' s dither and delay that be cause huge anxiety , as I will go on to say . rather than solve a problem , Labour be the problem . one way to resolve that be to accept the conservative proposal , table in the other place , to develop international technical standard for watermark , which the Secretary of State refer to . we welcome the agreement by the Minister in the other place to take that work forward , and both Houses look forward to the outcome with great interest . as I have say , the creative industry sector be valuable . it be worth £ 124 billion to the UK economy and employ over 2 . 4 million people . they will all be damage by labour ' s approach and they all deserve well , so why have an impact assessment not be publish at the same time as the consultation ? what have Labour get to hide ? I have listen very carefully to the hon . Gentleman , as I do during the debate on the creative industry a few week ago . during that debate , member on the conservative Benches give the impression that they be for the opt - out solution that the Labour party be put forward . be he now tell we that he be against that and that he will support the creative industry in see off the challenge from generative AI ? the creative industry sector be tell we that that solution be not fit for purpose . we will hold the Labour Government to account because the creative industry be extremely important . under the Conservatives , we become the second large exporter of television programming and the fourth large exporter of film , while also be home to world - class theatre , music , broadcasting and journalism . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I make progress , but I will give way shortly . on the conservative Benches , we have many well - respect champion of the creative industry sector . I be especially look forward to the contribution of my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon , who bring his insight as a former Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , creative industry Minister and Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , the current Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , for her work and leadership on the issue . my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , the shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , the shadow DCMS Minister , be both long - stand advocate for the creative industry . they have both engage extensively with the creative industry on AI and copyright issue , and together we will continue to champion those industry in this House and beyond . the hon . Gentleman do not answer the question ask by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . do the hon . Gentleman agree with the opt - out or not ? he seem to disagree with it , but then he describe exactly the same process as we have in the consultation . the Secretary of State need to listen to the creative industry sector . so far he have ignore that sector , issue a consultation late and give it no faith whatsoever . the timing of the consultation and the Bill be fully faulty , reflect labour ' s entirely incoherent approach — [ interruption . ] the Government ' s consultation on AI and copyright be open for another two week and it will take they many month to respond to the view express . on top of that , more time will be need for the Government to come to any sort of conclusion , and that be before the Chancellor and no . 10 panic , take control of the policy , edge out the Secretary of State and cause even more delay . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be not in government , so I will not give way until later — although if the Secretary of State want to come to the Dispatch Box to explain why his consultation and review be late and why he have not give any certainty to the sector , I be happy to give way , but I do not think he want to do that . let we go back to the Bill — [ interruption . ] okay , I be happy to give way . well , we certainly do not take 14 year to do that , but will the hon . Gentleman answer this : do he agree with the opt - out system ? yes or no ? the Secretary of State keep ask I question , but I be not in government . it be for he to answer . it be for he to bring forward a consultation and legislation , and to give certainty to the creative sector . there be no point ask I question — I be not in government . what I can tell the Secretary of State be that it be extremely unfortunate that this legislation be pass through Parliament now , while the consultation be still ongoing . amendment be be table by member from all part of both Houses , lead to legislative position be crystalise even though the consultation have not yet close . if the Government really take seriously the view of the public , the tech sector , the creative industry and other stakeholder , they would not be follow this approach or timetable . therefore , we will table amendment call on the Government to respond to their own consultation more quickly . labour ' s consultation provide the bad of all world : it do not provide any legal certainty or allow the view of those who have respond to be take seriously . however , Labour should take the view of parliamentarian seriously , include those of its own Back - Bench mps , who have voice concern at the Government ' s approach in this very House . labour should also take seriously the view of those in the other place . the Secretary of State acknowledge that the Government have already be heavily defeat on several amendment , include the conservative amendment table by Baroness Owen of Alderley Edge on sexually explicit deepfake image , which secure wide - range support . the Government be also defeat on conservative amendment table by Lord Lucas and Lord Arbuthnot that recognise the importance of accurate datum , particularly when it come to gender and sex . confuse biological sex and elective gender put patient safety at risk . the Bill be lengthy and we will continue to properly scrutinise it as it progress through the House . labour ' s track record to date on science and technology issue be so bad it need all the help it can get . in just eight month in office , the Labour Government have already commit eight act of harm on science and technology issue . they have impose a national insurance job tax , punish tech worker and business ; lose a £ 450 million investment from AstraZeneca , do away hundred of job ; launch an AI plan with no new funding or delivery plan , which create two new quango and more red tape ; cancel the UK ' s new exascale supercomputer , hamper our scientist while our competitor race ahead ; skip the international AI summit of world leader , start by the Conservatives but ignore by this Labour Prime Minister ; scrap £ 500 million of funding for the AI research resource , which fund computer power for AI ; abandon conservative plan for the national maths academy , harm the next generation of datum scientist ; and align Britain with the EU ' s fail approach to AI and copyright . labour ' s approach be analogue government in the digital age : slow , uninspire and not good enough for Britain . Labour promise so much , but it have deliver only failure . order . I can now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the Online Safety Act 2023 ( category 1 , category 2A and Category 2B Threshold Conditions ) Regulations 2025 . the Ayes be 320 and the Noes be 178 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I thank the Secretary of State for set out the reason why the Bill be so important . I welcome the measure that will help to make people ' s live easy and unlock the full power of datum to deliver the Government ' s mission , include the important mission of grow our economy . after two false start with datum Bills in the previous Parliament , it seem that the third time be the charm . that may be a consequence of our particularly charming Front Bench , as point out early , but it be certainly right that we have before we a data Bill that address the way in which datum have increasingly become fundamental to our society and our economy . it really be fantastic to see the Government lead the way on action to make the most of datum ' s potential . some 85 % of business handle digitalise datum and the british datum economy represent around 7 % of GDP . I use those two statistic to emphasise that data be not remote and abstract ; it be part of our everyday life and of our business ' lifeblood , and that be precisely why the Bill promise to be so transformative . I want to emphasise that we be all walk datum generator — we all generate datum , all the time . that do not mean that we have to be wear a Fitbit or some sort of smart device , though we all have two or three , generally ; we all generate datum . when the Select Committee that I have the good fortune to chair be look at the algorithm of social medium company as part of our inquiry into those algorithm and the Southport riot , it be clear that social media advertiser and other be effectively generate digital twin of we all . the thing with a digital twin , which represent we in datum , be that there be not just one and it certainly be not under our control . many company and organisation , and all those who wish to understand their potential customer or user , have datum on we and be track datum , include that which we generate . therefore , to have a Government who lead the way in ensure that that data be manage , generate , store and share in the interest of the general public , and that it be well understand by Government and the public service for which they be responsible , be so important . drive high productivity through the smart use of datum not only will grow the economy but , as the Secretary of State set out , will make all our life easy . in an era when we increasingly interact with public service online , the measure in the Bill will enable a modern digital Government , which will save people time . boost our public sector productivity , which have be stubbornly low in recent year , will help to deliver the efficient , effective public service that our constituent expect and deserve . that include free up to 1 . 5 million police and 140 , 000 nhs staff hour a year to focus on protect we , save life and provide well nhs treatment and all the other service that need to be people drive . an important part of the Bill be that it recognise that free up administrative effort through well join - up data sharing , collection , storage and so on give people great opportunity to deliver service for other . I particularly welcome the national underground asset register . before I become an MP , as I may have mention at some point , I work as a chartered engineer in what my constituent continue to call " a proper job " . as the head of technology for Ofcom , I spend an amazing amount of time try to work out what BT have underground . I think that , in part , it be BT be reluctant to share their knowledge of their underground cable and system — part of that be their duct and so on — because of that open they up to competition . I eventually realise , however — this be some time ago , so I hope they will not mind I say this now — that they do not know what they have underground and their own system do not reflect what be under the ground or what their asset be . when it come to repair a fault or improve or upgrade to a new network , therefore , not only be there the additional cost of try to find out what be there , but system be design slowly or wrongly . the Secretary of State refer to traffic jam be cause by road be dig up in the wrong place . that be a fundamental example of the impact of not have simple , accessible and secure datum on our asset . it seem amazing that I be work on the issue as a regulator 15 or 16 year ago , and that only now under this Labour Government be we address that essential national asset . I will also briefly mention advance in digital identity , which will deliver tangible benefit to the public , make task such as open a bank account , start a new job or rent a flat that much easy . I will not go into the debate on whether digital ID should be mandatory , but I will certainly say that it should be available and accessible to everyone . I have a constituent who be oblige to take a photograph of himself with the the Chronicle , the local newspaper of the day , in an attempt to prove to the Department for Work and Pensions that he exist because he be disabled and could not go into the jobcentre . that be the only way open to he for verification , because he do not have a passport or a drive licence . I hope the measure set out in the Bill will enable digital ID to be accessible to those who need it . the Bill also promise an approach to datum that be , in some quite literal way , cradle to grave , include for patient passport , electronic registration of birth and death , and critical service such as benefit and so on , which I have refer to . it be therefore vital that the public have confidence in our country ' s data protection regime . I have long argue — and it be great to hear the Secretary of State say essentially the same thing — that we can unlock the benefit of datum only if there be public trust . often , my constituent feel that advance in technology be do to they , rather than with they and for their benefit . critically , our constituent need to feel they have agency over the way in which data impact their life . rather than feel empower by digital innovation , too many feel the opposite : disempowere , undermined , dehumanise , track and attack . as an engineer with 20 year ' experience before enter Parliament , I find it deeply disturbing to follow the trajectory of tech from boring but incredibly useful , which be how it be when I start my career , to exciting but exploitative , which be how too many of my constituent view it now . I always say that I come into politic for the same reason I go into engineering , which be to make the world work well for everyone . I think the Bill can significantly contribute to that , with its emphasis on high standard for protect personal datum , include the strengthen role for the Information Commissioner and the new measure to protect the datum of child . deliver the improvement promise by the Bill must therefore go hand in hand with respect the right of citizen to control and manage their datum . so important be datum that already , in the first few month of its existence , the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , which I chair , have extensively discuss many of the issue be address by the Bill . in our session with the Secretary of State , we discuss the problem of legacy system and inconsistent standard for information in the NHS . it be good to see that the Bill look at address that . the Secretary of State make it clear that he understand the scale of the challenge , and I think he have deliver on his pledge to we to deliver a Bill that safeguard datum . we also discuss the considerable unmet demand for digital ID , which the Bill will meet , and the need to focus on outcome , with the chief scientific adviser echo in her session with we the idea that datum gathering must be proportionate , seek to answer specific question and not hoover up datum willy - nilly . this Bill be in that spirit , take a pragmatic approach that seek to use datum to solve problem , not to needlessly extend the role of Government or big tech in our life . we have hear about the exciting way that datum can help solve problem right across Government . in the Committee ' s session yesterday , the Science Minister , Lord Vallance , speak about the importance of datum to the Health Secretary ' s ambition to move from cure to prevention in the NHS , and the role that genomic and the revolution in life science could play in transform healthcare . I hope the Minister will address in his closing comment the single data health record for the NHS . it be important to have a consistent , safe , secure and share understanding of a patient ' s treatment , and I ask he to address how the evolution of the role of genomic and the detailed personal datum in any genomic record will be reflect in the provision of the Bill . in the Committee ' s session on the Budget , we also discuss the data environment , the infrastructure around datum , and how that be critical to our future success in support private sector growth and deliver modern public service . I welcome that the Government have make data centre part of our critical national infrastructure . that recognise a reality that have be there for some year now . last week the Committee launch our inquiry into the " digital centre of government " — a change in the machinery of government that the new Labour Government make , centre digital transformation and digital government in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology in order to enable the revolution in public service delivery that be part of the Labour Government ' s ambition . the effective implementation of this Bill be essential to the rewiring of datum in a digital government . it be also critical that there be the political will to ensure that the effective sharing of datum across Government serve the Bill ' s intention of support public trust , consistency of standard and consistency of datum format . when the Minister respond to the debate , will he say a little more about the role of open standard and open source ? the Secretary of State have already speak about transparency , but will the Minister talk about the role of open standard and open source in ensure that we have a consistent framework for datum share across Government ? I look forward to engage with Ministers in the Department in the month ahead on the Committee ' s inquiry and on the progress of the Bill , which mark an important and overdue step in deliver a digital Government fit for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Data be the new gold . it be by use good datum , and lot of the stuff — heap — that we will cure disease , empower consumer and business , find solution to societal problem and unleash economic growth . behind that datum , however , be the life of everyday people , and the decision make with that datum will impact everyday life . we must ensure that datum and the value from it be use in the service of the british people . that be why the Liberal Democrats welcome this Bill ' s effort to modernise and clarify our data law and to unleash growth and opportunity . the digital landscape be evolve rapidly , and it be right that we seek to keep pace . the Bill mark an improvement on the previous datum Bill introduce under the Conservative Government . however , although this Bill contain some positive step , it also contain significant gap and miss opportunity . we must seize this opportunity to get the legislation right , and to ensure that the data landscape we put in place serve all of we across the UK . maintain public trust in data safeguard be vital . as the Ada Lovelace Institute emphasise , trust about datum and technology be a must . in order for our democratic principle to be uphold , citizen must be able to trust how their data be be use . that be even more important as the data - drive digital interface of government increase . Trust be also two side of the same coin : inclusion and adoption . one be critical for society and the other be crucial for growth . that be why , in the name of constructive opposition and the interest of firm up public trust , we would like to highlight concern and miss opportunity . as the Bill pass through the House , we will be seek to interrogate and strengthen it where necessary . one of our primary concern lie with the power grant to the Secretary of State , particularly on recognise legitimate interest and the framework for digital verification . in essence , the Bill allow ministerial decision that bypass meaningful parliamentary scrutiny . that risk a situation where change to how datum be capture or share be make unilaterally , without the thorough check and balance that Parliament or the public expect . both the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee and the Constitution Committee have highlight these issue . the Open Rights Group highlight concern that a govern party could change the rule on election datum , for example , or have undue influence on the Information Commissioner ' s decision - make process and jeopardise impartiality . although there be a drive in the Bill to formalise digital identity framework , the liberal Democrats believe it be crucial to strike the right balance . we support harness digital verification to make service more efficient , provide there be robust transparency and independent oversight of how personal datum be store and use . we urge Ministers to tighten this area with clear ethical safeguard to genuinely foster trust rather than undermine it . secondly , modernisation should not come at the cost of transparency . several clause appear to dilute individual ’ right to information about how their datum be collect and process , notably in respect of legitimate interest and automated decision making . clause 77 , for example , risk seriously water down the right of datum subject , and in do so seriously hamper public trust in datum processing . the National Data Guardian and the British Medical Association , for example , be worried about the clause erode transparency in how health and social care datum be use for research . if we truly wish to harness the benefit of emerge technology , from AI to digital verification , we must earn and maintain that trust , and that depend on be open about how datum be use and by whom . that bring I on to the Bill ' s proposal on automate decision making . they currently focus on special category datum , which leave our ordinary personal datum less shielded . AI and algorithmic process increasingly determine people ' s credit , insurance , and even job prospect . there be risk in restrict enhanced safeguard to only certain category of information without further amendment to protect individual . the hon . Lady be absolutely right about that tendency , but it do not have to be like that . we can either build a society that be about personal interaction and familiarity , or we can allow a society of the kind she describe to develop , which will destroy the tapestry of those interaction that make up the wellbeing of each of we and all of we . there be definitely a lot of opportunity in automate decision making , but the safeguard must be in place to make sure that human decision and the right to safeguard around the impact of those decision be uphold , because restrict enhanced safeguard to only certain category of information , without further amendment , could exclude a wide range of significant decision from meaningful human review and create a lack of transparency . again , do so undermine public trust and hinder the adoption of AI and emergent technology . we share the concern of organisation include Justice and the Open Rights Group that clause 80 weaken safeguard by broaden the scope for automate decision . although the clause make safeguarding requirement more explicit , there be concern that it also provide the Secretary of State with considerable power via secondary legislation to amend or set aside those safeguard . the Liberal Democrats be firm in our conviction that where a person be the subject of automated decision making , there simply must be a right to explanation , a right to appeal and a meaningful human intervention . I hope the hon . Lady recognise that one of the change we have make to the Bill be to insist on there be meaningful human involvement . that be not in the previous version of the Bill . I think that that help considerably with the issue of automate decision making . I thank the Minister for his intervention . for we , it be a question of make sure that any input from the Secretary of State — whoever that be — do not undermine those safeguard . [ interruption . ] I be sure that the current Secretary of State will be around for a while . what do you know ? I know nothing . I shall continue with data adequacy . we must be mindful of our data adequacy agreement with the EU and other partner , and I know that the Government be all too aware of that . by water down protection , we risk undermine our international credibility and endanger agreement that be essential for british business , academic institution , and cross - border collaboration . it be paramount that our reform do not jeopardise those vital partnership , and it be vital that , as we update UK datum law , we protect our position as a lead , trust partner for international datum sharing . at a time when international water look increasingly choppy , this be more important than ever . there be a real opportunity for the Bill to go far and promote data trust or data community — where group of individual collectively manage their datum for wide societal benefit , such as medical research or tackle climate change . the Bill could champion that approach , thereby boost public interest innovation . instead , it be largely silent on collective or community - drive data governance , and miss a crucial chance to build genuine public trust in how technology can help we all . by go far on data trust or data community , we could far unlock economic growth , as be exemplify by open banking . consumer and small business can use this , and small provider can grow and compete more effectively . furthermore , consideration over access to datum on energy consumption could help improve sustainability and drive down energy bill . the Bill have come to we from the other place , and I commend the work that have take place in the House of Lords in recent week to scrutinise and improve the legislation . there be several area where the change make in the other place will have the support of the Liberal Democrats . on AI and copyright , we have be very clear that the current Government proposal would fail creative . the conservative shadow Minister be not clear on his stance on the question of opt in or opt out , so the creative industry have be leave unsure of whether the Conservatives will support it . I be happy to take an intervention from the shadow Minister if he want to clarify his position . I say to the Minister , and I will say it again for the hon . lady : it be for the Government to bring forward their proposal . once the consultation close , we will respond . that be the proper order in this House . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . as Liberal Democrats , we have be very clear on this , and we have listen to what the creative industry have say so far — will the hon . Lady give way ? let I finish my point and then I would be very happy to give way . we be against the opt - out system , because we want to preserve the right of copyright . it be easy for those creative to opt in , whereas opt out be hard , especially for small business or creative in their own right . I be go to say to the hon . Lady , half in jest and half in reality , that the Liberal Democrats will say whatever they need to say in any part of the country and on any issue . that be the reality . like anyone in this House , we can say whatever we want to say — within the rule of the House , of course , and under the eye of Madam Deputy Speaker . we have be clear on our view and on our value . we have listen to the evidence and we have say what our view be , which be that we do not support the opt out . our creative be one of the UK ' s great export , which be why we support they . our world leader in this area should never be ask to give up their exist right . we also welcome the provision of clause 81 to protect child ' s datum and introduce a legal duty for datum privacy by design for service that be likely to be access by child . across all area of technology and the online world , safety by design for child be a concept to which we be firmly committed , and this be an important step . finally , we welcome the measure in clause 141 on deepfake . sexually explicit deepfake have devastate far too many life in this country , and it be very welcome that the Bill now contain a consent - base offence and that enforcement will have real tooth , with the possibility of custodial sentence . this be a long overdue step that have to be take . overall , we support a modernise data framework that uphold digital right while stimulate innovation . we want a dynamic tech economy that address real - world challenge — from healthcare to public service to climate resilience . indeed , the liberal Democrat vision be of a digital future that spread the benefit of technology across society while protect fundamental liberty . none the less , the Bill need further amendment to safeguard fundamental right and embed proper scrutiny . we will work with colleague across the House , as well as with civil society organisation such as Big Brother Watch , Liberty and the Ada Lovelace Institute , to ensure that those important protection be not overlook . we welcome measure that clarify or simplify how organisation may use datum to develop new product , support research or improve public service . for instance , the concept of datum trust and data community , where individual pool datum for broad societal benefit , have the potential to create public interest innovation while retain trust and control . by improve oversight mechanism , reinforce transparency and embrace idea such as datum trust , we can create a Bill that truly balance public interest with economic growth . we owe it to our constituent and to the future of our digital economy to deliver legislation that foster innovation and secure individual right in equal measure . I look forward to explore these issue in Committee and ensure that we seize the opportunity to shape a robust , right - respect digital landscape for the UK . I would like to draw the attention of the House to my membership of the Writers ' Guild of Great Britain . I rise to contribute to today ' s debate on the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill as a creative who work as a screenwriter before I enter this place . to write a good script take discipline , focus , sweat and tear — I have find that tea and biscuit help , too . we mere mortal can not create something out of nothing . creativity be an act of synthesis : pull together the flotsam and jetsam of our experience and observation and apply they in an original way . we pour our life experience into our work , create the humanity behind the line , which lift character from the page and into the public ' s consciousness . if the public want to hang out by watch the show that we create , we have on our hand the rare of commodity — a hit . many year ago , I work on the hit show " New Tricks " . it be a cold case cop drama that run to 12 series on the BBC , create by Nigel McCrery , who die this week . " New Tricks " be , and remain , a very popular show . twice a year , I receive the royalty collect for I by the Authors ' Licensing and Collecting Society . I be pay fairly for my original work when it be rebroadcast around the world , or on digital platform . this week , I discover that the subtitle from one of my episode for " New Tricks " have be scrape and be be use to create learn material for artificial intelligence . along with thousand of other film and television show , my original work be be use by generative AI to write script , which one day may replace version produce by mere human like I . this be theft and it be happen on an industrial scale . as the law stand , AI company do not have to be transparent about what they be steal . I therefore welcome the principle of the amendment in the Bill before we today , which address this issue . the amendment require generative artificial intelligence firm to be transparent about the content use to train their model , allow creator to know when our work have be use . another amendment expand the exist copyright regime , which be completely clear that the unlicensed use of creative content to train AI model be theft , to cover all GAI model market in the UK . over in the United States , Thomson Reuters have just receive a summary judgment on its infringement claim . it be the first pure AI training case decide in the US , and the judge have say that AI training be not fair use . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and his listen mode , but the creative industry worry that the Government ' s preferred position of creator of original material opt out of have work scrape be not workable because no such model currently exist anywhere in the world . we be worried because creator build our industry . the creative industry be at the heart of our industrial strategy . I fully endorse much of what the hon . Lady have say . we as a House be slow to regulate the internet when it first emerge . the fascination with the new blind people to the damage it could do . we have have the online harm Bill more recently and so on and so forth . the risk in this case be not that we go too far , but that we do not go far enough . it be important , base on what she just say , that we take swift , decisive and firm action to avoid the eventuality of reduce human , as she describe they , to " mere " puppet . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point , and it be crucial that the Government take that into account at the end of the consultation . we have hear lot of voice from the creative art sector . the point of the consultation be to hear from all sector . so far in the debate we have not hear representation or voice from the technology sector — I look forward to the contribution by the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) — but I have be reassure by the technology company that they be engage with the consultation and be try to present the technological solution for which my hon . friend inquire . that be why the live consultation be so important : so that I , and we as a House , can judge whether the submission from technology company be robust and implementable enough and can see where the technology will go . the consultation be still live during this debate , and I hope that by the time we be in Committee , we can have more of an informed discussion , even though , as I say before , there be the likelihood of further parliamentary involvement down the line in a fully inform way . I thank the Secretary of State for his reassurance . I know that creative be worried because the scraping be happen now and will carry on until we have a solution . we must protect the creative industry . they grow by over a third between 2010 and 2023 in term of gross value add , far outpace growth in the UK economy as a whole . they be worth more to the economy than life science , car manufacturing , aerospace and the oil and gas sector combine . they be a glorious british success story . they make we proud . they make we feel good . they shape the nation ' s identity . they make we , well , we . they be represent in every corner of the UK , with 2 . 4 million worker , 70 % of whom live outside London . they be writer , musician , photographer , artist — all manner of wonderful creative folk , power one of our great success story and one of our good engine for growth . in my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby , I have be entreat by individual creative and small and medium - sized enterprise to ask the Government to look after their right and to protect their income . recently , I proudly serve on the Employment Rights Bill Committee — a Bill that will see the big improvement for work people in a generation . creative be work people , too . creative work be work . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have talk about her determination to take the brake off the creative industry and turbocharge growth . if the creative industry be a fast car , the creative be the driver . without we , it be the equivalent of a driverless car — fine , maybe , to get from a to b — but if we be to produce the kind of quality script behind the superb television drama that entertain , comfort , inspire and , as recently show in the case of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , effect meaningful change , we need a human being at the wheel . to have a human there , we need to ensure that they be pay for do what they do good : be original . we should inspire the rest of the world to adopt high standard , lead from the front and amplify our influence on the global stage . Britain ' s creative industry deserve a dynamic licensing market that protect copyright and drive growth and innovation in both the creative and tech sector . I look forward to the outcome of the consultation on AI and copyright and to work with the Secretary of State and the Minister to find a future - proof solution , which protect original work and the ability to earn an income from it . the Labour party be found on the principle of a fair day ' s wage for a fair day ' s work . be in government be our opportunity to fulfil that principle for UK creative . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , whose speech be absolutely spot on — I agree with it completely . it will not surprise the Government Front Benchers that I welcome the Bill . there be very few part of it , if any , with which I disagree — perhaps because it bear an extraordinary similarity to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill introduce by the previous Government , which I spend many happy hour take through Committee and Report . as the Secretary of State point out , unfortunately that Bill fall as a result of the calling of the general election , and I share his regret that it be not possible to get it on to the statute book . that be another reason among many why I regret the calling of the general election at the time choose by the previous Prime Minister . the right hon . Gentleman refer to all the happy day he have , but I do not think that he really enjoy the Report stage of the previous Bill . I think — nobody else will notice if he admit it here now — that he do not really like everything that be in the previous Government ' s version of the Bill , and that he rather prefer our version . although the hon . Gentleman and I have a robust but nevertheless amicable exchange on Report , it be in fact his colleague , the hon . member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who take that Bill through Committee . it be not until Report that the Conservative Government decide to add measure to the Bill — measure that I fully support , of course , but which nevertheless make the task a little more difficult , as they result in a lack of agreement across the Chamber , which have previously pertain throughout the passage of the Bill . it be a pleasure to debate these matter again , and , indeed , to see not just the hon . Gentleman but some of the official who labour to take that Bill through Committee with I , and be now task with do it all over again . one point about the Bill that the Secretary of State do not refer to be that a lot of it seek to improve the working of datum protection law in this country and make datum more accessible while safeguard important privacy right . however , the fact that we be able to make change to improve our data protection law be a consequence of Britain no long be a member of the European Union — otherwise , we be trap by the GDPR requirement . this be an example of where we can draft legislation to benefit people in this country and not have to accept top - down impose legislation from Brussels — another reason why I be an enthusiastic supporter of the previous Bill . one issue that feature a lot during the previous debate , and which I be slightly surprised have not be mention so far , be whether the change make in the Bill would in any way jeopardise datum adequacy recognition by the EU . [ interruption . ] I be sorry ; the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) do mention it , but the Secretary of State do not . data adequacy be an important issue , and concern have be express outside the House that the Bill might put it at risk . we be very keen to ensure that that be not the case , and we work closely — as I be sure the Minister continue to do — with the Information Commissioner , John Edwards , who have a lot of experience in this field , have previously oversee the data protection regime in New Zealand , which enjoy data adequacy but be not identical to GDPR . I be sure , give that this Bill be so similar , that there be no risk to datum adequacy , which be of importance to many large firm . the Bill cover a lot of other area that we regard as important and which have remain largely unchanged , such as the operation of the Information Commissioner ' s Office , digital identification , the national underground asset register , the electronic use of the register of birth and marriage , the extension of smart datum use , automate decision making , and the retention of information where require by coroner after child death . all those area be include in the previous Bill , and I be delighted that they be still there in this one . if I may , I will take this opportunity to explore some of my right hon . friend ' s knowledge and expertise in this area . will he comment on the balance in this Bill between safeguard on the one hand and freedom on the other ? I would be interested in his thought . if my hon . friend be refer to data protection , it be a careful balance . People be rightly concerned that their datum be protect and that they should have privacy right , and there be campaign organisation out there that have examine the Bill and express concern . we be careful to ensure that the standard of datum protection require be maintain , and I be sure this Government take the same view . at the same time — this be where there be small difference between the previous Bill and this Government ' s Bill — we be keen to ensure that datum protection do not impose unnecessary burden , particularly on small business . there be one or two area where we be able to slightly relax the definition and to reduce the burden on business , but this Government have take a different view . they be relatively minor and relatively technical area , but there be thing such as the definition of " vexatious and excessive " , which be an issue that occupy a lot of discussion . the Government have now remove that and revert to the previous definition , which we feel be unnecessarily burdensome . there be also the whole area of subject access request that would occupy a huge amount of firm ' time in try to respond to they . we feel there need to be at least some safeguard to prevent those become , as we define it , vexatious , so I regret the fact that the Government have not proceed with that element . however , those be relatively minor area , and in large part the Bill be one that previously enjoy cross - party consensus when it go through this Chamber in the last Parliament and that I suspect will continue to enjoy cross - party consensus as it move into Committee in this Parliament . the Secretary of State be no long with we , but I hasten to add that I be not volunteer to serve on the Public Bill Committee . have previously endure many hour do so , I do not particularly want to repeat that experience . perhaps in part because the Bill enjoy a lot of support across the House , there be inevitably a particular element about which there be real concern , and that be the area of copyright protection and artificial intelligence . it be worth say that that be not originally in the Bill at all , and I congratulate Baroness Kidron , who manage to persuade the Clerks in the other place to allow she to move the amendment to insert it into the Bill , and it be now part of the Bill . I think those amendment be very important , and I very much welcome they . the hon . member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) refer to the fact that the previous Government have not act in this area , and he be right . the Conservatives do not act because we feel , and continue to feel , that the law on copyright be clear and do not need change . this Government have propose to change the law to bring in the text and datum mining exception . that will create the opportunity for AI to take , scrape and ingest creative content , of the kind the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby mention , use an exception that the Government be bring in . it be propose under the last government , but I can tell the House that the last Government reject it precisely because we feel it would drive a coach and horse through copyright law and do real damage to the creative industry . the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech be very helpful , and he be make some useful point . the shadow Minister would not give we any clarity about his party ' s position on the opt - out mechanism , so could he help : what be the Opposition ' s position on that ? do they support it — yes or no ? I be very happy to address that . I be not on the Front Bench , but I will tell the hon . member my view , which be very clear : I have profound reservation about the opt - out , which reverse the whole principle of copyright law . the owner of right will have to go and say that they do not want to have their right take away from they , otherwise there be a right for other to use their content . I would prefer to see an opt - in or , in actual fact , a licensing method whereby right holder could agree , if they wish to do so , that their content could be use . if only the right hon . Gentleman be on the Conservative Front Bench on these issue , we would have a little bit of clarity , but he be absolutely spot on . there be no issue with copyright at the moment and no confusion about what be require in the law . all the Government be do be try to create some sort of smokescreen so that they can start to dismantle and water down our copyright regime . what do he think about those attempt , and will he join the rest of we in stand up for the copyright regime as it stand , where there be no question about its legality ? I assure the hon . gentleman that I have no wish to replace my hon . friend the Member for Havant ( Alan Mak ) , who be do an excellent job . nevertheless , the hon . Gentleman and I have be involve in discussion on copyright for many year , and I share his view . indeed , I welcome the debate that we have in this place just a couple of week ago on the creative industry , where a lot of these argument be rehearse , and the Minister helpfully agree that there be no workable opt - out technology available . the exist opt - out , which the European Union have suggest , simply do not work . on top of that , it be unenforceable . the Minister and the Secretary of State have suggest that they would not proceed unless a workable opt - out could be develop . it would be a first if it be . in any case , I be opposed to opt - out in principle , but it be at present practically impossible to introduce . I hear the Secretary of State talk about the technology company work to bring a workable solution forward , but I hope that the Minister will again make clear that the Government will not proceed unless there be a viable , workable technological solution that allow right holder to make clear that they do not wish to have their work use by artificial intelligence training model , and have that enforce . I think it might be easy if I respond to that now . yes , I completely and utterly agree with the right hon . Gentleman . that be our settled view . we want to get to a process where there be more licensing of content , and we have say that repeatedly . it be one of the aim of our consultation . he say that copyright do not need change , but the amendment table by Baroness Kidron in the Lords do change copyright law . we will somehow have to square that circle at some point during the Bill ' s progress . the amendment that Baroness Kidron table put in clear term what we believe the law be already . a number of case be go through , and the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby refer to one in America . that important judgment say that AI training do not constitute fair use . that be an american court , but previously we have be tell that America be ahead in encourage and promote the use of this technology . it be reassure that even in America , they recognise the importance of protect creative work . a news publisher bring forward that case . it be important that we recognise that creative industry in their broad definition be affect by this issue , and the newspaper publisher be particularly anxious about the consequence . one of Baroness Kidron ' s amendment , which be now in the Bill , emphasise the importance of transparency , and I know the Minister agree with that , but it also require company to make clear , in meet the transparency requirement , exactly what kind of activity the web crawler be involve in . newspaper publisher depend upon search , and it be important that the search engine can find and flag up their content , because without that they will not get the audience they need . that be a different exercise from training for ingestion and AI - create content . if the Bill be about require transparency , the amendment pass in the Lords seek to achieve that , and I hope they will be preserve , because it be important that we have that transparency , not just as a general principle but in detail in that way . two week ago , the Minister give some welcome assurance , and he have do so again this afternoon . we need to continue the debate . as he say , if the Government proceed , legislation will be require in due course , which we will obviously want to examine carefully . a view have be express on behalf of the creative industry and publisher that while the Minister and other member of the Government have be open to discussion , the Secretary of State have not meet they , so I be pleased to hear he early give the assurance that he would meet they , because this be of such vital importance to they . as my hon . friend the Member for Havant say , there be a lack of any economic impact assessment on the proposal in the consultation paper . I hope that the Government will produce such an economic impact assessment . this be a subject that be not intend to be include in the Bill — I welcome the fact that it be — but it be obviously one that we will debate again many time . in Committee . perhaps outside Committee as well . I will rely on my colleague who serve on the Committee to carry out the work at that point as well . I thank the Minister for his willingness to engage and assure he that we will continue to do so . it fair to say that if we do not work with datum , we do not really think about it too much , but , when we do , we realise how much of it surround we in multiple form . every day in this place I walk past shelf groan under the weight of volume of Hansard : an institutional memory of all that have happen here . new technology offer we an opportunity to take all that knowledge of what have come before and use it to help shape what we do next . Data be a powerful but often underappreciated and undervalue commodity . the Bill be to be welcome . I have no doubt that it will help grow the economy , improve public service and make people ' s live easy . however , when it come to the creative industry , we must recognise that creativity be more than just the sum of its data part . a novel be not just word , a song be not just note and lyric , and a painting be not just pixel or brush stroke . the poem of Robert Burns be not merely letter on a page ; they come alive in our mind in a way that no dataset can fully capture . when we treat creative work as nothing more than datum point , we risk undervalue the talent , the skill and the human expression that make they meaningful . I start my work life as a broadcaster . at 15 year old , I secure a work placement at Central FM , which be still proudly broadcast independently across the Forth valley . I go for a week and I stay for 10 year . I present the breakfast show , drag myself out of bed at 4 . 30 in the morning . my parent be more impressed that their teenage son could get up that early than they be about my career choice . back then , only 17 radio station be available in Stirling . today , my teenage son can stream thousand of station , podcast and song from a device in his pocket . the march of technology be relentless ; it can sweep people up or it can sweep people aside . in radio , I see that march at first hand — first come digitisation , then networking and then automation — and , with each step , job disappear . my last full - time broadcasting job be in 2008 . I leave because I see too many friend chase too few job that pay too little money . now , we be at another turning point . AI be a powerful tool with huge potential , but it need vast amount of datum , and that datum have enormous value . at a recent Public Accounts Committee evidence session , we hear from academic expert who tell we that once we hand over our datum , whatever promise be make and whatever covenant be place on it , we have lose control . if unchecked and unregulated — or regulate improperly — technology and the datum it use do not care whether it make people ' s live well or bad . we be deal today with the good and the bad consequence of decision take by tech company and regulator in relation to social medium and smartphone . let we learn from our mistake , not repeat they . the amendment propose in the other place , particularly on copyright and transparency , resonate greatly with I and much of the creative community . I urge colleague to give they due consideration in the next stage of the Bill ' s passage through the House . I be hearten to hear the Secretary of State ' s positive comment to that end in today ' s debate , and I welcome the Government ' s separate consultation on the issue . there will be other opportunity to consider these point , but the concern of the creative industry must be hear and act upon . copyright protection be not a barrier to AI innovation and competition , but a safeguard for the work of an industry worth £ 125 billion per year and employ more than 2 million people . we can enable a world where much of this value be transfer to a handful of big tech firm , or we can enable a win - win situation for the creative industry and AI developer , where they work together base on license relationship with remuneration and transparency at their heart . technology do not care what or who it replace , but we should . the world need data scientist , and it also need poet . creative worker be right to be nervous about AI far erode their ability to monetise their work . if we do not act carefully , we risk a future where technology exploit creativity rather than support it . datum and technology drive progress , but progress must not come at the expense of those who create , innovate and inspire . AI have immense potential , but without proper safeguard on it and its datum , it risk sweep creative worker aside , or bad , replace they all together . as we embrace the opportunity that AI and data - drive technology present , we must ensure that progress do not come at the cost of our creative industry . human expression can not be reduce to mere datum point . the livelihood of those who enrich our economy and culture must be protect . it be our responsibility to force innovation while safeguard the right of creator . we can build a future where AI enhance human creativity rather than undermine it , and where both well - pay data scientist and well - pay poet thrive in a digital age . it be an absolute pleasure to follow the hon . member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . he be spot on in remind we that datum have always exist in various form throughout the century , whether in volume or in little thing that we can plug into a computer . the only difference now be that all that datum be scrape and ingest into huge machine , which regurgitate it into some form that only they will decide . the hon . Gentleman be also spot on in remind we about his work at Central FM , a very fine radio station . this hon . member be always available for interview at any time that Central FM come a - calling . this be an alright bill . it be good . it be quite fine . it be reasonable in its approach and intent . it be a good shot at try to redefine our data regulation law . it will do a good job of ensure that our public service be more aligned and mainstream , and that access be available to all our constituent . however , it be a much well Bill because of some of the amendment make in the House of Lords . the amendment that be add at the later stage go far on child protection in online datum and look into deepfake , which be particularly helpful , and I congratulate our colleague down the corridor on bring they forward . it be a much well Bill because of the amendment that be deliver by Baroness Kidron on copyright and transparency . they significantly improve the Bill to make it something worth defend and protect . I hope that that will be the main mission as it continue to go through this House . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be unusual for I to congratulate our be - ermine unelected friend down the corridor , but this oiky Nat will doff his cap to their lord , their lady , their baron and their earl , because they have do a good job at shape the Bill . it be certainly a much well Bill than it be on second read down the corridor . I have a few issue with the Bill . there be concern about the security of some of this datum . I be particularly worried about some of the relationship within the EU - UK partnership , and I just hope that whatever be propose in the Bill do not drag we far away from the mainstream when it come to the European Union . the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and I agree about most thing when it come to the creative sector , but we do not agree about the European Union and the benefit of this country leave it . I be a passionate remainer , and I hope that at some point I will be able to take our country back into the European Union , as a proud member of the Scottish National party ; my intention and ambition be that we go back into that fantastic union of nation that have do so much to enrich our culture and our life . the hon . Gentleman be right that we do not agree on this particular issue . of course , be we to rejoin the EU , we would then be bind by its legislation on this very issue , which include the opt - out . this be where the right hon . Gentleman and I do profoundly disagree . I look at this arrangement and the partnership across the European Union as a positive — it be a good thing . we be major contributor to some of the EU directive put forward on copyright and artificial intelligence . they miss we , and we miss they ; we be just so much well when we be in partnership . I think we will just have to respectfully agree to disagree as we go forward on this particular issue . I be keen to emphasise that it be of course possible for we to align ourselves with the european directive that the previous Government construct before leave the European Union in order to be able to maintain good creative copyright protection for our creative , without we necessarily have to rejoin the European Union . absolutely — the hon . Lady be spot on . I know that several member across the House be look just now at some of those who take part in the debate we have on the european copyright directive and what it be do ; again , there be disagreement about its value . the hon . Lady be right ; we can keep ourselves alive . that be my hope . I just hope that the provision of the Bill do not do anything to far alienate we from our european colleague , because it be very important that we keep that alignment . this Bill be also important because it remove a number of the unnecessary and harmful clause in the previous Conservative Government ' s Bill . we will just have to take with a pinch of salt the ambition of this Bill , such as the £ 10 billion in growth anticipate from it . all I will say be that I have hear that all before . I know this be a Government desperate to find growth anywhere — they have make such a mess of the economy since come to power that everywhere they see the green shoot of growth . we will wait and see whether we will get this £ 10 billion of growth . the Government have a first test , which come with clause 135 to 139 . we do not know if we will get growth from the Bill when it come to datum , but we do know that we get growth from the creative industry in this country , which in 2022 contribute £ 125 billion to the economy and provide 2 . 4 million job . that be real growth . we should not mess with that and undermine it in the way the Government might be do with the watering down of the copyright provision and give generative AI access to our nation ' s creative treasure — I will just say that gently to the Government . however , I do very much welcome the inclusion of clause 135 to 139 . the hon . Gentleman have talk quite a bit about clause 135 to 139 . he may end up on the Bill Committee , in which case we will be able to talk through the intricacy of those clause then . several of they actually require Ministers to introduce very significant change via secondary legislation . be that really what he would like ? surely such matter should be properly include in a Bill . yes , at this stage it be definitely what I would like , because we have get they — they be in a Bill that we will decide and vote on and look at in Committee . they be a security and a guarantee for our creative sector , because they be already in a piece of legislation that we will hopefully pass . rise — if the Minister be go to say something positive about ensure that we respect our copyright regime — that it will stay intact and continue to do the job it have be do so effectively for the past few decade — then I will look at this now . I think I hear the Secretary of State say something about another piece of legislation . it might be necessary to bring in another piece of legislation , and I think we would all welcome that . however , it have to be on the basis of defend and protect our intellectual property and our copyright regime . I will give way once again to the Minister . I be very grateful ; the hon . Gentleman be be generous . I completely agree that we need to ensure that the right of right holder be protect , that they be able to be remunerate properly for their work , and that human creativity be at the heart of everything . the amendment table in the House of Lords state that Government Ministers should basically write the law in secondary legislation , so it would not be on the face of the Bill . he normally oppose such power - make power be give to Government Ministers , so I be slightly surprised that he be so passionate about they now . I wonder whether it would not be well for we to legislate properly , with all those thing lay out for proper scrutiny . again , I be grateful to the Minister for intervene in such a helpful manner . I be not particularly averse to secondary legislation — it have its place and purpose , and if it help achieve desire outcome then I have no issue with it . this be what my constituent want . I have be knock out by the number of email I have receive and secure from my constituent ask I to support the creative sector in the consultation on copyright and AI , and to back the amendment as the Bill go through the House . there do not seem to be any doubt that most of our constituent seem to be in partnership with their artist and the creative sector on this matter . I think what they want to see be the Government show the same determination and ambition for our creative sector and our artist . they have that opportunity . I will be patient with the Minister . he have hint occasionally about have some sort of solution that defend and protect our copyright regime , while at the same time supply what he require to ensure ambition in the AI sector . we be all look forward to do all that . I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for give way . I do not include this point in my own contribution , because I do not realise that the AI copyright issue would be such a big part of the debate , but I just want to let he and the House know that the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and the Culture , Media and Sport Committee sit together with creative and technologist to discuss how the technology solution the Minister be look for could address the exact point that he be make : support copyright and provide access to datum . Google and OpenAI refuse to take part , because they say their response to the consultation be ongoing . as an engineer , I think that you should always be able to explain what you be do in the midst of you do it , but that be their position . however , the technologist who be there have a view that technology could — there be not a consensus — support that , although not necessarily immediately . I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee . she be absolutely right . her Committee have a central role in look at these issue and I wish she well in any of the inquiry she launch . it be particularly disappointing that Google and other AI company will not come to her Committee . I hope that she use the power that I know , as a former Select Committee Chair , can be use to oblige reluctant witness to come in front of she . I be pretty certain that somebody who be as determine an individual as she be will be able to secure that . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful case , as ever , and I agree with much of what he be say . do he agree with I that we should be ready to point out where those who contribute to this debate be proxy or fund by tech company not appear in public to make the case , but instead make argument through small organisation that can be a little bit more assertive and nimble - footed , and not quite as accountable ? that be a very interesting contribution from the hon . Gentleman . it would be a useful exercise to find out who be speak on behalf of certain company , if they be reluctant witness . we should not have reluctant witness in this House . People should have an obligation to appear for parliamentary scrutiny . it do not matter whether it be the big tech brother or the small company in our constituency . he be right that that type of transparency would be really useful . we should not be naive about this , because the tech company have form . all of their pedigree suggest that they can not be trust to do the right thing — to manage their affair , or to protect either the public interest or the interest of the creative industry — so I hope that the Government will take exactly the robust approach that the hon . Gentleman have describe . perhaps one way in which they could do so , give that copyright have be introduce into these consideration via the amendment , be to extend exist copyright to the internet , so that people who publish online be subject to the same restriction — they already be . the Minister say that they be , but they should be subject to exactly the same restriction as those who print and broadcast . far be it from I , who be on my foot , to get in the way of a conversation between the right hon . Gentleman and the Minister . I be interested by that little exchange . the right hon . Gentleman be right : we have to be careful when it come to issue such as this . give his experience of the House , he will have observe over the year some of the way in which people who be able to make representation can be abuse . as we go forward in such a critical area , he be right to issue a warning , and I think the House have hear what he have have to say . clause 135 to 139 be the creative industry ' safeguard and guarantee in the face on an almost existential threat to their ability to sustain themselves and continue to bring that uncontaminated joy of human imagination to the people we represent . they would help to tackle the unauthorised use of intellectual property by big tech company scrape datum for AI . they would enforce transparency and lie out a redress procedure . they would explicitly subject AI company to UK copyright law , regardless of where they be base in the world . that mean — and this be a critical point — that those company would have to reveal the name and owner of web crawler that currently operate anonymously . most importantly , they would allow copyright owner to know when , where and how their work be to be use . to develop and thrive , our artist need the good possible condition and political environment , and we have deliver that over the decade . that be why we lead the world when it come to our contribution to the creative industry , and why we make such massive gross value add in every single sector in which we be predominant . our lead artist give we a soft power that be the envy of the world , and we must not do anything that threaten our ability to retain it . we have a gold standard IP right framework enshrine in UK law . we have a copyright regime that protect our artist , and ensure that their wonderful work be properly recognise and that they be remunerate for the product of their imagination . I be interested by the hon . Gentleman ' s remark about the importance of these clause — amendment from the other place — which , in principle , I support . he have also mention the importance of ensure that proper scrutiny take place when it come to , for example , the tech company make representation in this place , but those amendment suggest that that would be deal with only through secondary legislation . if we have an opportunity , as present by those on the Front Bench , to suggest that we could have proper , primary legislation , why should we accept the idea of secondary legislation , which do not allow for sufficient scrutiny to ensure that we be provide the necessary protection , when we should be debate primary legislation in this Chamber ? I have probably not explain exactly what my fear and concern be , and that be probably typical of I . what we currently have in the Bill be a guarantee that we will respect copyright and ensure that there be transparency . until I be present with something that cover all the issue that be cover in clause 135 to 139 , with all the security that they would give our creative industry , I will back those clause to the hilt , and will do everything possible to ensure that they remain within the Bill . if the Minister , as he seem to be suggest , be go to come back to we with a different bill , let we see it . let we see if it do all the thing that we all want when it come to back our creative sector . if it contain all the provision that will ensure that our copyright framework be respect , and if transparency be on the face of it , I will back it in a flash ; but until I see it , this be all that I have get , and all that the House have get , and we should make sure that we defend and protect it . there be an idea that somehow our copyright law be break . they be not break at all ; our copyright law work perfectly well . the only people who have an issue with our copyright law be those run the AI tech giant , who find that such law get in the way of what they want to do and achieve . their intention and ambition be to ingest our creative heritage , and to scrape the world for the last bit of human imagination and creative content . that be what have create difficulty and confusion about our copyright regime . there be nothing wrong with our law . they be really good and the envy of so many , and they have serve we well . I will support the Bill as it go through the House . as I have say to the Minister , it be a good Bill that generally do all the right thing when it come to datum use , which should be support . it be a well bill because of the amendment , and I will continue to support it . but if the Minister have a Bill that he want to present to this House , could he please get on with it ? there be a consultation go on just now , which end , I think , in two week on Wednesday . at that point , we will have the information that we require , and I suspect that we will find an overwhelming desire to see our copyright regime protect and defend . if the Minister have a Bill , bring it on . in the meantime , we must support the provision and clause in this Bill . it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to contribute far on this important Bill . I thank Ministers , particularly the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , for their ongoing attention and for be in listen mode , particularly on the copyright matter that have be so dominant so far . the Bill rightly modernise data regulation , which will spur growth and improve public service , make everyday life well . when put to good use and use fairly and effectively , datum can enhance efficiency across sector , from food supply chain and commercial forecasting to healthcare . it be a powerful prospect with enormous benefit . the challenge be in ensure that those benefit reach everyone . give the demand place on the Bill by the amendment table in the other place , I hope that it proceed into Committee . as it do so , we will gain insight from the Government ' s ongoing and related consultation on copyright and AI . today ' s debate be concern with the use of datum to drive progress ; it speak to how we can live well , and how we can live good , with AI . we do not need to accept the false choice of innovate versus regulate . in consider the country either side of we , it can feel as though there be only two option — one or the other ; zero or one — but the UK must act now . this be a national cause with international consequence . face with demand for innovation while other call for regulation , we should bid for harmonisation . Harmony be the language not of compromise , but of complement — a value great than the sum of its part . we must understand the strength of all contribution to that harmony . no country have get this right yet , and this be our chance to learn from a blend of approach . international example should be observe . AI should be harness to be an honest broker , which be why transparency be key . in silicon valley , exception have be make to the US ' s general approach , and the creative and tech industry be balance accordingly . the UK should embrace transparency and maintain the strength of both sector . Europe understand the role of transparency , though there be little evidence that this have lead to more licensing for copyright holder . we must not assume that one will automatically lead to the other , or that this will alleviate the concern of our creative sector . Singapore have a broad AI training exception , but it have a minimal creative sector . the UK , with its proud creative industry , should not make flawed comparison with a country without the same creative strength , output and export . just as transparency be demand in our supply chain , so too must it apply to our code chain . argument suggest that transparency would be too burdensome feel disingenuous . in Select Committee hearing , the argument for transparency , which represent a giant step forward in resolve the tension between AI and creator , seem to have be deliberately oppose by those seek to excuse themselves , as well as those they represent by proxy , from pay for the work of other . the Government ' s commitment to an industrial strategy include our brilliant creative industry , but discussion with those industry should focus on how we advance and enhance they . we risk make this about how we can protect their very existence if we do not take seriously the deep alarm voice by creator over the threat pose by AI . we also risk lose the very thing that make life rich . I urge the Government to introduce a requirement for transparency . if an AI system be train on the work of thousand of musician , author and film maker , they have a right to know and a right to be pay . this could include a register . we do not tell manufacturer , energy provider or tech firm that their product should be freely use to build billion - dollar business without compensation . the same principle must apply to creative work . copyright be not a barrier to innovation ; it be the foundation that allow creativity to thrive . this threat to creator ’ livelihood be particularly acute for small right holder who lack the mean to navigate complex system or enforce protection against unauthorised AI use . these independent creator be the backbone of our creative ecosystem . More than 70 % of they be base in our town and region , away from the city , where for they , level up mean make up . without they , the UK ' s creative engine will begin to fray and diminish . creativity thrive not just through the marquee name but through the countless independent voice , expression and creation that enrich our experience . the argument that restrict AI ' s access to copyright work will stifle progress and leave we trail behind other territory be incorrect . I ask again : what progress be we pursue if it undermine the position of strength that we start from ? I have see no economic impact assessment that state that exempt music and other creative content from licensing , or introduce AI training exception , will boost the economy . yes , job in data centre will be welcome , but they be minimal in comparison to those sustain by our creative industry . at its heart , AI be about capability and capacity . it should not facilitate the casual but disastrous dismantling of copyright . the job gain must come from skilled input and employment that put AI to work . the harnessing of AI must be human - tethered . we must remember that AI be a great enabler , and for our advantage . it be not a stand - alone sector ; it be a transformative technology for all sector . our focus must therefore be on its use , not on sweeping legal exception that weaken copyright and risk hollow out the very industry we be commit to grow . if there be a technological answer — a digital fingerprinting solution or a pay - as - you - go AI model — we should keep an open mind , but it be a leap to expect these solution to come soon enough for the urgent issue at hand . the anxiety I have outline can not be leave unresolved while we wait . my hon . friend be , like I , a musician . be it any wonder that creative , particularly musician , be concern even by the language that have be refer to across the Chamber ? " Ingestion " speak of consume , and let we not think what else it speak of . " scrape " be also a horrible word . hopefully we can reach a situation , through the consultation that the Minister and other be engage in , where we can use well language in this space that give more reassurance to the creative sector . instead of " ingest " we could use " collaborate , " for example , and instead of " scrape " we could use " reward . " we might then protect our wonderful creative sector . I agree with everything my hon . Friend say , and I suspect he be a well musician than I be . he be , yes . the Minister get the memo . AI be give the creative sector indigestion , frankly , and this be the problem we be face , so aim for a smoother future through collaboration be absolutely right . as with previous technological shift , such as the introduction of the internet or indeed the printing press , law should be base on use , not on the technology itself . the principle of tech neutrality should be reaffirm as a guide principle for our law and culture . in the absence of a clear solution , we must return to first principle and stand for transparency , fairness and the fundamental right to be pay for one ' s work . or will we entertain the risk of an opaque system , build on unnecessary secrecy , freely extract value from copyright work without payment ? we be in a defining moment . innovation should uplift , not exploit . the future of AI must be build on trust , so I urge this House and this government to ensure that AI innovation do not come at the cost of our world - lead creative industry . opposition member be broadly supportive of this Bill and its aim , which build on the work do by the previous Conservative Government and refine by member of the other place . I will focus primarily on deepfake and AI - generate image , specifically in relation to clause 91 and 141 . I commend Baroness Owen for her work on non - consensual image and deepfake , and for press the Government to address this issue with more urgency . her work bring about a u - turn on the intent - base amendment , push the Government to agree on solicitation , and push they to act on the deletion of content . remove the intent - base amendment remove a huge hurdle for victim — a hurdle that would have require victim to prove the intention of their tormentor . this would simply have place more pressure on victim , while abuser would have be more likely to excuse their crime . it be right that solicitation be now include in the Bill , as many case have show that it be not enough just to criminalise creation ; we must also criminalise the people who ask other to create these image and video for they . otherwise , we run the risk of a loophole where image be post on to site and people from other jurisdiction create the content and send it back to the person request it . the Government try to prevent custodial sentence from be an option for these abuser , as they argue that omit " reasonable excuse " may breach the european convention on human right . give the content , I can not see how perpetrator ' right trump the right of victim , but the change be make thank to Baroness Owen and Members from across the party in the other place , who persist in make sure that the Government take all action need to stop this grow criminal scourge . we have see a surge in deepfake , revenge porn and nudifying app . this technology be the wild west and , unchecked , pose a danger to many in society . we must act to protect the most vulnerable from harm . I welcome that clause 91 establishe requirement for the commissioner to report on what action have be take . it be right that we see what be be do to combat these crime . we have hear many report of sexual image of child be generate and spread . this cause so much damage , and once such exploitative image be create and disseminate , they be near impossible to eradicate . as technology advance , we need to keep pace with new threat , lest technological change outstrip the pace of legislation . for too long , the law have be out of touch with fast - change reality . there be app just a few click away that allow user to generate their own AI boyfriend or girlfriend , and some of these app can take real image and change they into sexually explicit figure that be already terrifyingly real . this be just one example of why we need further restriction , with clear penalty for both platform provider and user . one app , undress - ai , process over 600 , 000 image of woman within 21 day of launch . these be ordinary woman , with no knowledge that their image be be doctor in such a way and use , even trade , for the gratification of other . this be simply not right . although consent be at the heart of aspect of the Bill , we need to look closely at provision for withdraw consent . this must be seriously consider , particularly where an image that be consensually exchange be doctor into something that be never consent to . though I welcome aspect of the Bill , we must ensure that we keep up with the rapid pace of change . app that cause great harm be readily accessible . I hope to hear more about what can be do to assist people to withdraw consent , so that we can end this vile abuse . I will focus my remark on the impact of generative AI on musician . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I be a member of the Musicians ' Union . with a background in the music industry , share friendship with many musician and as a fan , I have be inundate with concern from musician about how AI could affect their livelihood . the music industry have long be structure in a way that exploit musician . streaming service have make that far bad , and our musician will once again lose out if AI copyright law be not handle correctly . big tech company should not be able to generate and profit from music without permission or payment . how can we justify take money away from british musician and hand it to tech firm for free ? that do not support growth ; it undermine it . in reality , many household name — artist whose music we all know , who have have top 10 hit and whose poster once adorn our wall — be struggle . new musician can barely get a foot in the door and be often not pay for year . song be play more than ever , yet songwriter see less of the money . someone be get pay , but not the people who create the music . unless they be at the very top , make a good living as a musician in this country be become nearly impossible . even those who can sell out venue of a couple of thousand people across our town and city be barely scrape by . the balance be completely off , but we , in this place , have the power to help to change that . unlike our european counterpart , in this country we have fail to introduce proper protection for creator ' pay over the past decade . as the party of labour , with a commitment to make work pay , this Government should ensure that artist , songwriter and musician be fairly pay for their work and protect from exploitation by faceless tech company . AI can be a powerful tool , transform industry like healthcare and science by reduce admin burden and free up skilled professional . but AI that tokenise the toil of artist and spit out soulless imitation do not support human creativity or make it more productive . no one have ever love a song because of how efficiently it be write . as James Oppenheim write in his 1911 poem : our life shall not be sweat from birth until life close ; heart starve as well as body ; give we bread , but give we rose . if work be our bread , then music be our rose . musician across the country be closely watch today ' s debate . the consultation be ongoing and these matter will be address more in due course . I thank the Minister for his ongoing engagement in the matter , but will he assure I that the Government will strive to get the Bill right for musician and that musician will not be overlook in the introduction of Al technology ? I will attempt not to give a rerun of the speech I make during the general debate on the creative industry the other day . no Paddington ? the Minister will be delighted to hear that there will be no Paddington reference . minister have set out the core objective of the Bill : grow the economy , improve public service and make people ' s live easy . no one be go to disagree with any of that . those aim be laudable , and I support they , as do the Liberal Democrats . however , there be concern . I will focus on an area that other have already touch on , and speak in support of amendment that have come to we from the House of Lords relate to the creative industry and copyright . while the Bill seek to improve life , we worry that the consultation currently be undertake by the Government leave open a risk that incentive for human creativity will be remove entirely , and that we will end up in future with many ten of thousand of shade of pale grey . at the heart of our creative sector be the ability of the human hand to paint or draw , or to write music that move we , and of the human brain to compose verse that persuade people , make the hair stand up on the back of our neck and change the world for the well . protect that must be absolutely central to what we do as we embrace technology , but the risk of AI be that those protection be lose . for the avoidance of doubt , and in the absence of clarity from the official Opposition , we back a system that would protect the IP of creative ; that is , an opt - in system . I would give way to the shadow Minister if he want to clarify the conservative party ' s position — he do not . the default must be that creative content be protect . even AI model , if we ask they , admit the risk to human creativity if IP be not protect by an opt - in model . while the conservative party have criticise we on that , at least we have an opinion . I want to emphasise and build on what my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) point out in relation to music . we need to understand which creative sector be most vulnerable to generative AI . it be those that have be easily replicable through other form of technology in the past : music , writing and the visual art , in particular photography . I say that because it be sometimes misunderstood that some creative sector be more vulnerable than other , and if we do not understand that they have different regime for how they be protect , there be risk of not be able to properly protect they . the hon . Lady ' s contribution be as right as all the other she have make during this debate and the general debate a couple of week ago . I will immediately move on to the point that data be an abstract term and be be use to cover all sort of information in these debate . yet all datum be not equal and our legislation must properly reflect that . for example , there be a clear and obvious role for AI in process health datum in a way that help doctor with diagnosis and benefit patient with fast treatment . the same might apply to the chat we have with our local council about bin , planning or licensing . yet even though no one will disagree that the UK firm innovate in science , medicine , climate change and other key industry must not be stymie , the training datum for other AI system — the datum we be talk about — be literature , poetry , music and art . those be thing that be creative in essence . it be not just datum ; it be creative endeavour and an extremely human form . one of the option in the current consultation would abolish the copyright protection that underpin the livelihood of our creative sector and , as other have say , that would be ruinous for the creative industry . furthermore , the unintended consequence could actually harm the long - term development of AI model that we will all come to rely on . high - quality datum be essential for train good AI model , but publicly available human - create text datum might become the minority online . we have all see the mistake that AI can produce and a model train on bad datum will only produce bad result . the Government be rightly ambitious for AI , and part of that ambition must include produce model with traceable datum that the public can be assure meet a high standard . minister should be embrace our copyright law precisely because that be a means to improve AI , as well as protect our creative . a reliable licensing system will ensure that AI model be be create use high - quality , human - generate datum . oversight of what be use to train those model will only help to build trust in what be a very new technology that the public be sceptical about . to that end , the Liberal Democrats support the amendment that have come from the House of Lords , which seek to strengthen the right of creative . the Government must think carefully about which side of the argument they support , and I have be pleased to hear some of the Secretary of State and the Minister ' s reassurance today . we will be watch closely . we can take more positive from other part of the Bill , and to reflect on that , I will move on to discuss some constituency matter . I be more optimistic about the Bill ' s potential to improve the situation of bereaved parent , which the Minister and I have discuss fairly recently , and I hope Ministers will confirm that that opportunity will be take . many in the House will be familiar with the story of my constituent , Ellen Roome , who tragically lose her 14 - year - old son Jools to suicide . in her search for answer about the circumstance lead up to Jools ' s death , Ellen have come up against outdated law and social medium giant take an intransigent approach to share datum that should naturally be her as a parent . we be talk about the thing that , in the past , she would have be able to find out by look through her child ' s bedroom — thing that might have be in wardrobe , store under the bed or in school note . these day , those bit of datum will be on multiple social medium account . this be the subject of my private Member ' s Bill , the Social Media ( access to Accounts ) Bill , also know as the Jools ' law Bill . this Bill would give parent access right to their deceased child ' s datum automatically , so other grieve parent will never face the challenge and the huge legal cost that Ellen have have to endure . I note the plan announce by minister include establish an information commission with a duty to ensure child ' s datum be protect . this be a welcome step which I hope will strengthen the protection child badly need online , but we must ensure the commission be effectively resource to take on the social medium giant , who have make it clear that they only want profit . first , I offer my deep condolence to the family concern . in my constituency I also have a challenging case where a young boy lose his life . it be entirely appropriate that the Government be take this forward , and I commend Ministers for their work on it and also thank the hon . gentleman for his work on this important matter . I thank the hon . Gentleman . the purpose of my point today be to make sure that , while the datum Bill progress , consensus be build in this House that we all acknowledge that parent should have the right to their child ' s datum in case where a child have die of suicide . that be a simple principle , and I be sure the hon . Gentleman would agree with it , as I know minister do . that consensus must be bear out in the legislation that we pass . I be hopeful these circumstance will be cover in the final Bill , and that the Jools ' law Bill will become law . so I ask Ministers today : will we have clarity on the Government ' s plan in this area , and will they support parent like Ellen ? will the Government accept the principle my constituent Ellen be pursue ? it be a simple ask that parental access to social medium account datum be protect in the event of a child ' s death , that social medium company be oblige to retain that datum for a suitable period of time , and that datum be make available to inquest so coroner can make judgment to prevent such tragedy from happen again . I be grateful to have the opportunity to speak in this debate , and I be pleased to follow the powerful speech of the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . this wide - range Bill cut across many aspect of Government and people ' s life . we must harness the power of datum to drive economic growth , to support a modern digital government and build more efficient , effective public service , and to support people to have improve live more generally . for too long this potential have not be fully realise , hold back business , public service , learning and education , and people up and down the country more generally . this mission - lead Government ' s plan for change — deliver economic growth , well public service and action on the environment — can not be fully realise without some of the opportunity that this Bill create . measure in the Bill be expect to free up 1 . 5 million hour of police time , mean officer will have more time to tackle crime rather than deal with admin . this will be welcome in community blight by antisocial behaviour and among retailer who have be affect by shoplifting or violence against shop worker — the Co - op in Oakwood in my constituency be an example . it will also be welcome in term of the service victim of domestic violence receive from the police , as they will have more time to take preventive work and support victim , include my constituent Hayley who come to I to talk about her experience of domestic violence . it be also estimate that measure in this Bill will free up a huge amount of time within the NHS for clinician , potentially save life as well as make service more accessible and responsive to people ' s need . that be vital as the Government have inherit from their predecessor the long waiting time in NHS history . the Bill will also improve the information that regulator receive , enable a real - time view of how a service be perform . old model of regulation , where inspector would go in on a periodic rolling basis , be often insufficient and not responsive to a service ' s current situation . we have see example in the NHS and education where extremely poor service have not be of a standard that people have a right to expect — there have be abuse in some case — but regulator ' oversight have not be modern enough to capture that and drive regulatory action . I presume that my hon . friend be move on to a range of other benefit of AI . have he consider the importance of AI in support medical and scientific research ? there be a great deal of evidence to show that the power of AI apply to this area could speed up the development of new drug and many other treatment . in addition to diagnostic , that be an important aspect of the benefit of AI to medicine , and be not always report well in the medium . my hon . friend be right . there be tremendous opportunity to anticipate people ' s need throughout their life and also drive scientific innovation , so that we can live long and healthy life . the Health Secretary and other Ministers have be clear that the huge investment that the Government be make in public service must go hand in hand with reform , since change will not be deliver solely by spend more money , and this Bill will help to make that possible . I be also pleased that the Government will strengthen safeguard on personal datum . that be key to ensure that people have trust in the service that they use , and to prevent those who would exploit personal datum from be able to do so . I look forward to follow that aspect of the Bill as it progress through its future stage . I also wish to touch on the national underground asset register — a national map of the UK ' s underground infrastructure . in Derbyshire , people find it so frustrating to find that their street , their road , or the highway that they use have be dig up again by yet another utility company , or another person who need access to the cable or the infrastructure underground . not only be that frustrating for people as they try to get around , but it be , I believe , undermine the integrity of the road that we use and drive our pothole problem . I hope that , combine with our journey to local government devolution , our road will be another area where people will be able to see a tangible difference . during the Bill ' s passage through the House of Lords , effort be make to strengthen copyright protection for creator , include artist , photographer , author , musician , composer and lyricist . I welcome the work that the House of Lords have do to push those issue far up the agenda . strong protection for creator be something that I will always seek to support . artificial intelligence have benefit for sector such as music , yet more transparency from AI firm on the music , art , and literature on which their system draw be absolutely necessary . although the technology be new , some of the argument that we have hear here and today in the wide discourse on this Bill be decidedly not new . I be remind of the 15th century — although I be not there — when Johannes Gutenberg roll out his printing press for the first time . People be worried about the effect that that would have on scribe and the monk who transcribe the religious text . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who be no long in his place , speak about the volume of book that we have here in Parliament . I say gently to my hon . friend that the difference be that then people understand from look at the book whether it be print or scribe , whereas with AI - generate work it be sometimes hard to distinguish , which be why we need labelling and additional consumer protection in this space . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I shall get on to those point when I talk about the consultation that be currently under way . we need to ensure that the benefit of AI be manage and that our creator be properly protect . this be a £ 120 billion industry , which employ more than 2 million people . it be an expression of who we be and contribute to our understanding of ourselves and each other , and it take we on a journey where we can walk in somebody else ' s shoe and build a more tolerant , cohesive and engaged society . if we do not get this right , all that be threaten . that would be bad not just for the global star , the household name and the people whose record , cd and download we have in our home — and cassette . yes , and cassette . it would also be bad for those at the start of their journey . we must cultivate up - and - come talent and support emerge artist across all those sector . we have a moral duty to do so and to find an equitable solution , and I commend the work that UK Music have do to point that out . I know it be not the Bill ' s intend purpose to address copyright and AI . the consultation , which close on 25 February , be under way , and I know the Government do not want to predetermine its outcome because we want to get this right . we need to get it right for the economy and for our culture . give that this issue have be conflate with those in the Bill , I would appreciate an assurance from the Minister that if we can not proceed with progress well protection to ensure the UK ' s legal framework for AI and copyright for the creative industry at this stage , we will consider the matter follow the closure of the consultation . I look forward to work with Ministers and colleague across the House to get the good solution possible for our creative . I be enjoy the debate and feel regretful that I no long have any disclosable interest in the creative industry . I be grateful to member for share their powerful testimony . I do have a couple of disclosable interest in relation to tech , and I want to address my comment to some of aspect of that . over the course of human history , we have find ourselves in possession of resource that can radically change how our society operate and the quality of life that we lead . over thousand of year , we have revolutionise society by harness fire , oil , electricity and even cassette tape . I truly believe that the great opportunity for our generation be to harness the power of datum for the public good . before I come to this place , I work with large company across the world , talk to they about how they should restructure and reform their organisation to make the good use of the power of datum , not only to improve their business but to improve the experience of their user and customer . when they use datum well , they bring prosperity to their organisation and make people want to come back to they time and again . how many of our constituent could honestly say that they want to engage with Departments and public service time and again ? we have to face a hard truth : when citizen engage with Government , they be far from impressed . in so many case , they feel that they be battle with sclerotic bureaucracy and a system build of silo , which feel design for the convenience of the administration and not the user . my big gripe be that everywhere I go in the country , when I need to park my car I have to download a new app because the local authority have decide what app it will use . smart datum might actually allow we to have an interoperable , interchangeable system for park our car . I could not agree more . some of the conclusion that be reach through the procurement of technology service by local council defy sense and be utterly baffle . I be sure that all of we be guilty of that ; I will not go any far than that — so you ' re guilty ? all of we be guilty , I be sure , of be part of decision that sometimes defy sense when it come to usability . I can speak only on behalf of the citizen who contact I about have to go round in circle , share the same story , dig out new and old reference number and wonder why nothing seem to want to work for they . I be sure the Minister would agree that it do not have to be this way . we have already see the transformative impact of the improved usability of gov . uk services , and that be just the very front end of the machine . total transformation of how datum be use in our public service could radically change how we deliver service for citizen . I hope the Government will look to Estonia for inspiration on how to have a truly data - drive Government with the citizen at the centre . it be a place I visit in my past life to talk about data - drive success story . I be sure that it be no coincidence that , for the past 20 year , the estonian digital transformation have be lead by liberal government from our estonian sister party . after the fall of communism , in the late 1990 , Estonia embark on an ambitious programme know as the " Tiger Leap " to expand internet access and computer literacy — the first step in embed the digital environment into all level of the citizen and Government experience . their government proudly say that their e - cabinet , which streamline the decision - make process , bring the average length of an Estonian Cabinet meeting down from five hour to 30 minute — an appealing prospect to those on the Treasury Bench , I be sure . estonian citizen can access 100 % of their public service online at any time . the Estonians have transform their healthcare system with the e - health and e - prescription initiative , which free up GP time by allow prescription refill to be deal with online and ensure fast and simple access to key medical information during emergency . although all - digital service be desirable , we should never freeze out those who be not digital savvy , give that over 1 million people in this country do not own a mobile phone , for example . do the hon . member agree ? the hon . Member make an excellent point , for which I be grateful — I will address it in a moment , if I may . X - Road , describe as the backbone of e - Estonia , be a secure datum - exchange platform that allow smooth and seamless use of datum between organisation . it carry out 2 . 2 billion transaction every year , and be estimate to save Estonians 1 , 345 year - worth of work per annum . the platform have be describe as have a " radical anti - silo " agenda . my experience so far of the structure of Parliament and Government have convince I that we would all benefit from a heavy dose of radical anti - siloism . that data transformation save the Government money , and the public like it . saving worth up to 2 % of estonian gdp have be make thank to that efficient datum environment — a saving that , if replicate in the UK , would easily fill the Chancellor ' s budgetary black hole . for 12 of the 15 e - service survey , 80 % of citizen or more say they have make use public service easy . I call on the Government to be bold , ambitious and , above all , citizen - focus in such design and delivery . I visit Estonia last year and speak to our ambassador there . we be now on our third agreement between the UK and Estonia on Government e - service and digital collaboration . that be underutilise by the previous UK Government . it would be great to see the Minister and his colleague step up the work with Estonia and bring that sort of work here , give that those agreement be in place . this be absolutely not a pitch to be a member of the Bill Committee , but I would certainly be grateful for the opportunity to implement my view in the design and delivery of Britain ' s very own Tiger Leap into the data - drive revolution . Estonia be a crystal - clear example prove that the result of such a transformation be not just the preserve of tech geek — a category into which I place myself — but provide tangible benefit for individual , and not just by make they use digital stuff at the front end , which the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) will be glad to hear . I think about the lady in her 90 whose Openreach engineer understandably refuse her fibre upgrade because the local council have not share with they the fact that she use a telecare device . I also think of the farmer who be baffle by the system use to issue flood recovery payment , because the data be not transparent . do my hon . friend agree that the key to extract value from dataset be datum retrievability ? absolutely . there be so many layer upon which datum governance , data infrastructure and data practice must be establish , and data retrievability be one of the thing that sit between those layer and the application or interface that use they . I understand that one reason why Estonia have a sophisticated tech and AI capability , and a great many protection in how it manage that datum , be that it face a threat from Russia and be keen to ensure that its digital integrity be retain . I be glad that we do not face quite the same threat in this country , but we can learn lesson from Estonia , and I be glad that the hon . Gentleman have raise that . I do not doubt that that be an enable factor , but one reason why be citizen - focus work so well be that it be much easy to build trust and credibility bit by bit by tell people why do something differently will be well for they . in that way , we do not end up in the horrendous situation of face yet another £ 100 billion abortive it project that can not quite establish public trust and collapse . again , I draw attention to the success of some of our european neighbour . to go back to example that be not just about the interface , but about the underlie enable tech , an exasperate constituent contact I to tell I how the Department for Work and Pensions have refuse to email he . he have ask it to send he detail of his conversation with it by email , rather than by letter , to try to save the Government money , and he be tell that it have to post this to he by letter because that be how the system work . harness the power of datum must not , however , come at the cost of our right or civil liberty . I be very concerned about some aspect of the Bill that have be touch on by other hon . member , such as the reduce accountability mechanism for law enforcement when handle datum , a potential watering down of our GDPR right and give more scope for automated decision making without human oversight , although I have be partially reassure by some of the comment from the Minister , for which I be grateful . I be also concerned that , along with the provision in the Bill for create a digital ID system , there be no equal right to a non - digital ID . not only do this create concern about datum freedom , but in area such as North Norfolk , where digital exclusion be high than in many other area , I be worried about how many of my old resident will feel comfortable or confident use any digital system . their right must be preserve , and their experience and fear give equal worth . the Bill seek to tackle a difficult but very important subject . it be right that the Government venture into datum transformation to deliver for all our constituent and make their experience as citizen interact with the Government far well than be currently the case . I guess my reservation be about who it be write and work for , and why . I be try to make sure that this Bill be build not around convenience for the Administration , but around genuinely citizen - centre design principle . the Bill tackle issue such as datum handling , but I would like it to start to set out a vision for a data - drive society — I be a bit disappointed in that , as it stand , it could be more ambitious and innovative in this regard — and seek to carve we out as datum pioneer among our international peer . I hope the Government can see the evidence from successful data - drive society , and I be confident they do . I hope they hear the frustration of citizen at their experience , and I think they currently do . I hope they will make this Bill one that can be laud by future generation as the launchpad that transform our society . it be an honour to follow that great contribution from the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , much of which I will echo . like he , before I be elect to this place I work a lot with datum — understand it , use it , deploy it — in tech company , academia and then politic . I be a huge supporter of the Secretary of State ' s and the Minister ' s agenda , and broadly of the enormous potential for datum and data - drive tool such as AI and machine learning , because they can drive productivity growth , boost earning and , crucially , save constituent ' time and money — whether it be register the birth of child , kid go through school , access a gp or enter the workplace . I would like to underscore a few aspect of the Bill that have not be speak much about , but I would also like to make a wide argument about the importance of this agenda and about go far in some area in the year to come , particularly in the connection between datum and risk . so , Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope you will forgive a slight and quick diversion . the word " datum " have its root in the word for " fact " , but in the world of machine learning and AI it mean something broad — the information we choose to record about our world to analyse and use to make decision . datum begin as demographic information , because a state that want to build an army or fight war want to know what kind of people comprise its populace . now we collect datum about driving , sleep and click online to help we navigate or get fitter , but also to push we mindless advertising . what datum we collect depend on what we want to use datum for , and that require constant judgment about risk : where we be willing to take risk , how much risk and what kind of risk . in many way , we have become a society and a country too averse to risk — to failure . we create new regulator and give they enormous discretion because we want to minimise risk . we create new tsar for this , that and the other , and give they broad power because we want to minimise risk . the effect be that we avoid failure on 1 , 000 small thing , but we also lose the opportunity to maximise our output and our success , because success require risk , and datum often force we to make clear and confident judgment about risk . the topic of this Bill be an opportunity to begin to shift our culture in our economy and , crucially , in our state too , but also for politician like we in this House to be clear about where we welcome and embrace risk and where we do not , and to take responsibility as elect member for failure . I will focus on two area in this Bill where I believe datum be force to the surface different appetite for and judgment about risk : healthcare and social medium . briefly , I will say something about copyright , which have be well cover in powerful contribution by other . I be pleased that the Secretary of State say that he be look at this area in the AI consultation , and I look forward to hear more about the detail of that consultation and what come from it . we should be optimistic . it be possible to do what other have argue for and place our creative industry on a secure and stable footing , while also ensure that AI be unlocked in this country . I hope that the Secretary of State will hear the powerful contribution of my colleague today . the two example I will focus on be those that matter to many of the work people in my constituency of Makerfield . as the Secretary of State say , datum be at the heart of how this Government must break through barrier and inertia to deliver for work people . that be why I be so glad that this Bill be not about killer robot or space - age AI , but be focus on the transformation of Government and service that impact my constituent every day . the first example be healthcare , and this be an area where we should embrace more risk . systematise the collection and recording of datum in healthcare unlock the possibility of use datum to spot pattern , of contact people ahead of time — instead of fine they if they miss their appointment , as they do in my borough of Wigan — and of save people time that they do not have . to unleash the full potential of datum in healthcare , we need to be confident about build population - level dataset control and own by the public , anonymise through tool such as encryption , and then use those dataset not just for academic research , but to improve service and delivery . this Bill take initial step in that direction , which I welcome . in Greater Manchester , my constituent benefit already from a share patient care record between primary and secondary care , and a data science platform that bring in datum across local hospital . patient already feel the benefit of that every day . in healthcare , we can go far and fast . we must be cautious about inadvertently slip into risk aversion , caution and stagnation , particularly in relation to concern about privacy . for much of the past 20 year and the period I have be involve in this debate , debate about datum have be dominate by concern about privacy , but whose interest do the privacy lobby serve ? often , think - tank and NGOs fight in the name of work people to stop datum be use to do thing that work people want do . there be a lot of good evidence that the public be relax about population - level anonymise datum be use to save they time and money and improve the service they use , especially in healthcare . do the elderly woman I see in my constituency surgery last week , who have be struggle to see her gp for week now , care if her datum sit in an anonymised database and be use to unlock more facetime for her gp to see patient and to make it fast for she to get an appointment ? I do not think she do . I therefore welcome the change in this Bill to the EU ' s sprawl GDPR framework . if one of Brexit ' s much - fame opportunity be to lead the way in diffuse the collection and use of datum , we should embrace it wholeheartedly , subject to the data adequacy requirement . more generally in healthcare , we must ensure that we do not inadvertently build barrier that block the collection and use of datum control by those accountable to the public for the public good , where datum can drive well outcome and improve experience . the second case I will consider be social medium . social medium collect datum about our unthinking scroll to build highly optimise engagement algorithm that rake in advertising revenue . that contribute little to growth , national security or , indeed , the welfare of humanity . the digital verification market that this Bill create will be vital . digital age verification be central to protect our child , especially once the Online Safety Act 2023 be in force . I want my young kid to grow up in a country that protect they from harmful content , such as sexualise violence , and from spend hour mindlessly scroll through content , waste their time and corrode their mind . I also welcome the Bill ' s provision to allow researcher to access online safety datum hold by technology company , and I hope that we will continue to deepen those provision . this be one area where I actually think we should be more worried about risk — a rare exception to my general view that we have become too risk - averse — because it be about the mind and character of our citizen and the strength of our democracy . at present , the information environment of our nation be be pollute , sometimes deliberately and often by foreign adversary . government communicate with citizen , and citizen with each other , in space design to drive they apart . as we have see in past month , know what be circulate online , and how , be in the public interest . I hope that the Bill be just the beginning of our Government use every possible lever to rebuild the fabric of trust in government , politic and each other in this new digital environment . historically , state collect datum to wage war and raise taxis . this government should harness datum to put money in the pocket of work people , to make public service more efficient and easy to access , and — crucially — to rebuild our public realm and restore trust in our great democracy . I be grateful to have the opportunity to contribute to the debate , which I have really enjoy listen to . I particularly enjoy the contribution of the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , who talk about writer and story . her discussion remind I of the book I be read with my son , Andy Griffiths and Terry Denton ' s " the 39 - Storey Treehouse " , where they have just build a book make machine and have go off to enjoy themselves while the book be write . I do not quite know how the story will end yet . that remind we of the balance between the benefit that innovation such as AI can bring and the challenge , as the hon . Member say , of ensure that people be fairly remunerated for their effort , whether they be on build the machine or write the story . I will direct my remark to two particular area of the Bill . first , clause 141 deal with what it refer to as " purport intimate " image , otherwise refer to as deepfake pornography image . there be image of all hon . member and a majority of our constituent online , fully clothe — at least , I hope so — but individual can take those innocent image of we or our constituent and use computer software to insert they into another image , generate image that appear to show an individual in an intimate state , undressed or engage in sexual activity . why do they do that ? for their own sexual gratification , to share with other — perhaps for money — or to humiliate , threaten or control the individual in the image or their loved one . that have a devastating effect on people ' s life . no hon . member will be surprised to hear that 99 % of victim of that evil crime be woman . it be important to recognise the work of Baroness Owen of Alderley Edge . she introduce a private member ' s Bill in this area last December . it be unfortunate that the Government choose not to support her legislation at that time , but I be grateful that they have draft this clause of the Bill , which have the same effect . it be Baroness Owen ' s tenacity and explanation that persuade the Government to ensure that the threshold be consent , rather than the victim need to prove intent , in the use of image . she persuade they to increase the penalty to include imprisonment , reflect the severity of the crime . she also persuade they of the need to amend the Sentencing Act 2020 to end the somewhat farcical situation in which an individual will be prosecute for create an image and , at the end of the court case , have that same image hand back to they as part of their property . the Government give the Baroness one further undertaking . sometimes , image be not discover immediately after they be take ; or , if a group of image be find on someone ' s computer , it may take a while to identify the victim . in such case , a six - month timeout loophole can cause individual to get away with these hideous crime . the Government undertake to amend section 127 of the Magistrates ' Courts Act 1980 , which limit jurisdiction to within six month of a crime , to ensure that people catch for a crime after six month have elapse or whose prosecution take place after six month have elapse can still be hold to justice and account . I ask the Minister to explain why I can not find that in the Bill — it may be there and I just can not find it . if he could clarify that point , I would be grateful . the other point I want to raise be accuracy . we have talk a lot about datum , but data be useful only if it be accurate . we will all have hear the story of baby Lilah , a beautiful baby girl bear in Sutton - in - Ashfield who be register as male by accident . it be not very easy to have side note in digital datum . how do we ensure that datum be accurate ? three clause in the Bill may help we with that . clause 45 ( 6 ) say that information must be accurate , clause 28 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) suggest that the Secretary of State must check list organisation for datum reliability , and clause 140 require the Secretary of State to produce a data dictionary to ensure that we know the definition of all the data point . the Secretary State speak about the huge opportunity that datum offer the NHS . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a consultant paediatrician . other have talk about the huge opportunity that AI and datum use and research can present to the NHS , but there be also a risk . how do the Minister intend to define sex ? the Labour Cabinet and the Prime Minister have repeatedly struggle to define what be a woman . leave that to secondary legislation , consider in a small Committee , be not sufficient scrutiny for such an important matter . early in the debate , the Secretary of State refer to the power that the Bill give the Secretary of State under secondary legislation and why thing be not include in the Bill itself . this issue should be give more scrutiny than that of an SI Committee . it be important to protect woman : woman ' s sport , woman ' s privacy and woman ' s single - sex space . it be important for intimate care . many people want to receive intimate care , particularly domiciliary care , by somebody of the same sex . how will they know if the data be not available ? datum be also important to protect those with a trans identity . many blood reference range be different for male and female . Haemoglobin vary from laboratory to laboratory , but be roughly 13 to 18 in male and 11 . 5 to 16 . 5 in female . if data be not complete or accurate , some individual may receive unnecessary investigation . datum for screening and other health message be important . we do not want male people call for cervical screening or man not to receive prostate information . the hon . Lady be make some excellent point on sex and gender and the collection of datum — she know that I share her view on that . it be incumbent on the Minister and the Secretary of State to ensure that datum be collect accord to sex . however , do she agree that the previous Government put we in the situation that we be in ? it be certainly true that across the western world at the moment , there seem to be some confusion on some of the basic of biology and humanity . Data be important for protect child , too . one data provider list in clause 28 be the Disclosure and Barring Service . GB News report that there be 12 , 000 prosecution between January 2019 and June 2022 of people on the sex offender register who do not inform police of datum change . it be crucial that datum be accurate and up to date , so will the Secretary of State commit to the integrity of biological sex datum in the Bill and in the Government ' s dataset ? last September , the UK Health Security Agency release datum on sexually transmit infection by sex and sexual orientation , which be important because of the different epidemiological nature of infection in the different population . however , the footnote say that man be define in the datum as cisgender and transgender man , and woman as cisgender and transgender woman . that somewhat undermine the data integrity and the purpose of split the datum in the first place . datum that be wrong , unhelpful , mislead or misuse by malicious actor can be dangerous . many be concerned . how do the Minister plan to define sex , and what be his plan for incongruous datum ? in the debate in the upper House , it be report that 3 , 000 people have change their sex datum in their passport , and 15 , 000 have change it with the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency on their driving licence . it be say in the House of Lords debate that up to 100 , 000 people may have incongruous official dataset between item such as passport and drive licence . how do the Minister intend to resolve that if we be to have one large dataset for each person ? finally , clause 45 ( 8 ) set out that a person may need to pay fee in respect of disclosure . will we expect people to pay for their own datum , and , if so , how much ? I know Labour be very keen on increase taxis , but can the Minister guarantee that the cost will never outweigh the admin cost of produce the datum ? it be a pleasure to follow my medical colleague , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , in this debate . this be a wide - range Bill , but I would like to talk this afternoon about the role of datum access in healthcare , and what I think be a transformative proposal for the patient passport . NHS it and case record be chaotic . I know about this chaos from my own clinic , where I spend — or waste — too much time look at PDF reader ; we also have dictaphone , and we even still have fax machine . half the consultation can easily be spend open up website and computer program for all sort of different thing . the standard of information keep by different hospital vary quite widely and it interoperability be often very poor , so that if I transfer a patient from one hospital where I work to another hospital where I work , the other people in the hospital can not easily work out what be go on with the patient . sometimes we be unable to treat the patient because we be unable to access their medical record . imagine an elderly lady lie on a trolley in a hospital corridor at 3 o ' clock in the morning , unable to give a full account of her medical history . if we can not access her file , how will we well treat she ? that be not an imaginary situation ; it be an actual situation that be probably happen in our hospital today . I therefore welcome the measure in the Bill that will standardise information and improve the flow of datum between hospital . actually , I be pleased that West Suffolk hospital , in my constituency , have very good it standard , and I hope the Bill will allow more hospital around the country to follow its example . however , I urge the Government to look far when consider reform to medical datum . here be what I think may be a transformative proposal : we should give ownership of the medical record directly to the patient . let we make the clinician ask the patient to see the record , and not the other way around . nine out of 10 Britons want well access to their medical record , and we should simply listen to they . let we create a patient passport that have all the patient ' s medical datum on it . it would be transformative . People organise their life on their phone , so let we put the passport there . we could just expand the NHS app to become a digital front door for the health service . People be happy to bank on their phone , send email on their phone and book flight on their phone — my mother - in - law be not . well , the Minister ' s mother - in - law might not be . I do not think it be such a leap of the imagination to let everybody access their medical information in this way . as we hear from the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , who have go for a cup of tea , other country such as Estonia do this . I urge we to think carefully . one record , one patient — it would simplify so much of our healthcare , and this Bill be the opportunity to do it . I be hearten to hear that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary support such a proposal . it will be the future of healthcare , so let we simply make it happen . I stand in support of the objective and aim of the Bill . have work with datum and technology for more than 30 year , I wholeheartedly support the ethical , responsible and equitable use of technology and datum to benefit and make easy the life of the people of the UK , and to increase the efficiency of service delivery in the public sector . I also pay tribute to campaign group include Big Brother Watch and Justice for their work to protect the vital privacy and datum protection right of people in the UK . I want to share some concern I have on the Bill , focus on two area : clause 70 and clause 80 . I urge the Government to take note and amend the Bill to ensure that the british public ' s privacy right and right to equality and non - discrimination be not compromise . clause 70 will weaken protection around personal datum processing , thereby reduce the scope of the datum that be protect by safeguard in data protection law . I be particularly concerned about the executive power to determine recognise legitimate interest , which will allow for more datum to be process with few safeguard than be currently permit and reduce exist protection that ensure the lawful use of datum . I be also concerned about the increase power of the Secretary of State to amend the definition of " recognise legitimate interest " through secondary legislation without appropriate parliamentary scrutiny . currently , automated decision making be broadly prohibit , with specific exemption . clause 80 will permit it in all but a limited set of circumstance . that will strip the public of the right not to be subject to solely automate decision , which risk exacerbate the likely possibility of unfair , opaque and discriminatory outcome from ADM system ; limit individual ’ right to challenge ADM ; permit ADM use in law enforcement and intelligence , with significant carve - out in relation to the exist safeguard ; and give the Secretary of State executive control over the ADM regulatory framework through secondary legislation . they may not be direct example , but Horizon and the many Department for Work and Pensions scandal show the failing and risk of rely solely on automation and AI . the Bill introduce a new regime for digital verification service . it set out a series of rule govern the future use and oversight of digital identity as part of the Government ' s road map towards digital identity verification . the framework currently lack important safeguard and human right principle that prevent the broad sharing of the public ' s identity datum beyond its original purpose . far , the Bill miss the opportunity to take a positive , inclusive step to codify a right for member of the public to use non - digital ID where reasonably practicable . such a right be vital to protect privacy and equality in the digital age . the right to use a non - digital ID where practicable would protect accessibility , inclusion and people ' s choice in how they choose to verify their identity when access public and private service , legally protect the million of people who can not or do not want to hand over personal identity datum online where an alternative be reasonably practicable . return to automated decision making , it be clearly insufficient to move the burden of safeguard from the data controller , who be currently responsible for prevent harm , to the individual to complain if the ADM be unfair , since people may not complain due to a lack of knowledge or confidence , intimidation and various intersecting vulnerability . I understand the point the hon . Gentleman be make , but do he not accept that the Bill very clearly explain that in case where any automated decision be take , there would have to be the right to a proper explanation of the decision , which would probably address a lot of his concern , and that there must always be a right for an individual to make representation about the decision and obtain human intervention if that be what they want ? I welcome the limited protection in the Bill , but I know from experience that many application for benefit — especially disability benefit and personal independence payment — that be process through automate system be refuse , and the applicant have to go through a complicated and laborious appeal process in order to overturn those automate decision . clause 70 introduce significant change to the lawful basis for process personal datum . while the aim of those change be to streamline data processing for legitimate interest , they also present challenge relate to privacy protection , parliamentary oversight , and the potential for misuse . it be essential to balance the facilitation of legitimate datum processing with the safeguarding of individual right and freedom . although the Bill be intend to modernise datum protection law , the propose change to automate decision - make right in clause 80 raise significant concern . the potential erosion of individual protection , increase power imbalance , reduced transparency and the risk of discrimination highlight the need for a more balanced approach that safeguard individual right while accommodate technological advance . while I welcome the positive element of the Bill , I urge the Government to ensure that it do not deliver the propose benefit along with diminished human right and right to privacy , increase discrimination and other unintended harm to individual , the wide public , minority , artist and creative , public service , or our country as a whole . I welcome the Bill . give its potential to boost the economy by £ 10 billion , it be a huge win for so many sector , and a brilliant example of the difference that this Labour Government can make . technological innovation will improve efficiency and reduce unnecessary administration , allow our key worker to focus more on the thing that matter most . Police officer and NHS worker , for example , protect we and save life , and in free up 1 . 5 million hour of police time and 140 , 000 nhs staff hour every year by cut out excess administration work , the Bill will help they to do that . how many police officer equivalent could we make from 1 . 5 million hour of additional work ? it be incredible . our NHS have be break by the conservative party . that require funding to fix , which be why , in the Budget , this Government rightly pledge an additional £ 22 . 6 billion in resource spending for our health service . however , it also need reform , and I have be pleased to hear that message clearly understand and prioritise by the Government through Bills such as this . at present , each part of the system find it difficult to communicate with the other , partly because of issue relate to datum sharing , which put more strain on patient and more strain on our NHS staff . the Bill would change that . medical record would be share between health professional , which would mean quick diagnosis and treatment , and those record would be subject to strict security protocol : only the most relevant staff would have access to non - anonymise patient datum . these change be hugely important , and can not come soon enough . in North West Cambridgeshire , the improve datum access in the Bill will allow for great connectivity between all the health service that my constituent use . whether they have an appointment at Peterborough city hospital , at Hinchingbrooke hospital or far afield , and whether their GP ' s surgery be at Old Fletton , Lakeside , Botolph Bridge or beyond , the Bill will ensure that their healthcare professional have all the information they need to do their job quickly and effectively . on our street , people be rightly concerned about crime . Police be stretch to the limit and strip to the bone under the last government , and the percentage of people see officer on the beat have drop by two third over the past 14 year . we be give police their time back by reduce the administration burden and allow they to do their actual job , protect the public and make our community safe . as someone from a science background , I be particularly interested in the Bill ' s reform to datum access for researcher . this have huge potential to help scientist to conduct more impactful research and drive critical innovation in everything from pharmaceutical to manufacturing , technology and more , and the benefit that that could bring to our economy be enormous . when work in the research space , I could see significant problem with datum sharing and access , so I know that this Bill will make a real difference . colleague in the university sector have give I their feedback on the Bill , emphasise that provide researcher with secure access to Government datum be crucial for research that drive economic growth , productivity and inclusivity . link academic and Government datum enable well research . take my field of pathology , critical work be go on to understand the genetic cause of disease so that we can develop new treatment . we need huge dataset for that , and it make complete sense for the Government to work with partner to provide they . in response to the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) , a lot of our scientist , particularly those work in genetic , rely on dataset from other country , particularly nordic country , which have know about this issue for quite a long time and have make a lot of datum available to researcher . we need enormous dataset to be able to do the necessary analysis , particularly around drug development . there be a lot of inclusivity problem , because particular ethnic group be lack from the country on which we be dependent for the datum . for example , there be often not enough information about how particular drug affect black people . in order to deal with that , we need the datum to be available so that we can look at the genetic . if we get too catch up in not allow anonymised datum to be share with researcher for that purpose , it will really harm inclusivity ; it will not help at all . it be worth make those point . university colleague have highlight the new national data library , spearhead by the Department . if design effectively , it have the potential to facilitate research from the outset , and to help drive improvement in public service for the benefit of all UK citizen . I hope the Government will make sure that we get university and private sector research partner around the table when we set up the library , to make sure that it will work for they and their need . this Bill will allow researcher to seek broad consent for area of scientific research , while ensure high standard of datum protection . notably , personal datum will be able to be use for research purpose only if it be process in a manner that do not permit the identification of the data subject . that go back to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) . we talk about risk to privacy and personal right , but this be anonymised datum , usually at a very large scale ; no one be look at individual ’ record . in my field , we look at thousand and thousand of genome at the same time to identify association between certain area of genetic and disease . this Bill pose no risk to patient , and we do people a disservice if we engage in scaremongere , so I be glad that member have not do that . the Bill will give scientist more tool for innovation and discovery , and people can be reassure that their data be safe and their privacy respect . the quantity of datum that we need to draw strong conclusion in research be huge , which have historically be a barrier . I be really pleased that the Government have publish a 250 - page impact assessment with this Bill . I welcome the particular emphasis on trust , but we need to make sure that we get the comms right , particularly around protect privacy and ensure that what we have say in this House become more widely know by the public . the Bill make important clarification about the use of AI in decision making . we know that this be the direction in which a lot of organisation be move , and there be a lot of potential , but strong safeguard be essential , so I be pleased to see the Bill place a serious emphasis on put they in place . Wales ' s creative industry be a cornerstone of our culture and economy . it generate £ 3 . 8 billion in the last financial year — 5 . 3 % of our gdp — and much of that success rely on strong copyright protection . creative must be pay when their work be use , include for AI training . too often creative datum be be scrape without permission , undermine livelihood . do the hon . member agree that clause 95 and 135 to 139 of this Bill be a vital step in safeguard our creative industry ? the hon . Lady make her point well , and we have already hear from the Minister about the rationale behind those clause . there be real issue with put such measure through in secondary legislation , because this House should have more ability to scrutinise they . we know there be a consultation at the moment , and we have hear from the Secretary of State that he be very open to have a conversation on this issue and make sure that we address it . I be sure we all agree that we need to do that properly . on safeguard , the Bill make it very clear that where an organisation make automate decision , an individual have the right to a proper explanation of those decision and the right to make representation about the decision take , to obtain human intervention and to contest the automated decision . those be really robust safeguard , but they be key provision that must be show to work in practice . we can not enter a situation in which automate decision be make wrongly , with no recourse . I strongly support the Bill and these safeguard , but I note that the British Medical Association have raise concern around clause 77 and clause 70 . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s response to those concern around dilute protection for health datum hold by non - public body . I be sure that he have a response , and it would be good to hear it . to wrap up , the innovative use of datum , follow strict guideline and datum protection rule , will massively improve the efficiency of public service and grow our economy . it be right that the Government take this route . the UK should be lead the way in innovative technology and fully utilise technological development to improve people ' s life , and I believe that this Bill will do that . I call the shadow Minister . as a self - profess datum geek — [ interruption . ] the Minister look quite surprised at that . well , I be now self - profess myself as a data geek , and it be a real pleasure to wind up this important debate on behalf of the official Opposition . as the original architect of the Bill , the opposition welcome the fact that the Government have recognise the potential of these Conservative - lead policy to make people ' s life easy by be able to prove identity quickly when deal with statutory agency and service provider ; to streamline and enhance public service delivery , such as by harmonise the information available to healthcare professional across NHS setting ; and to boost economic growth through the innovative use of smart datum . in short , this Bill will bring into effect the previous Government ' s ambition to harness and exploit datum as the currency of the digital age . the staggering pace of recent technological advance present not only enormous opportunity , but challenge that demand further scrutiny . early , the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Havant ( Alan Mak ) , rightly point out some of the area where the Government ' s approach to the science and technology sector conflict with the outcome that they want . we have have an extensive debate today with hon . member cover a range of topic , some of which I shall refer to shortly . perhaps it be ironically apt that the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill have have so many iteration and this recursive second reading , but I must pay tribute to those who have be work before we to get it to the state it be in today . much of the Bill be technical and uncontroversial , but some of it still need to be thrash out and debate , and I look forward to take it through in Committee . I would like at this point to pay tribute to Lord Markham and Viscount Camrose . I be particularly pleased to hear the Government ' s response with regard to security around the underground asset register . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who I be sure be glad that he be not do another second read speech and hopefully not take the Bill through Committee for this side , and of course to Baroness Owen for the incredible work that she have do . the tribute pay to she by my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be far well than anything I could put together from this Dispatch Box , and I thank he for his comment . by my count , we have have 15 or 16 Back - Bench speaker , and I would like to draw particular attention to the intervention from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who point out the wrangling that take place in the House of Lords regard datum that be use for scientific purpose . I be sure that the definition of public interest will be discuss in further detail in Committee . I also particularly like the speech from the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) . as I have say , much of this Bill — this big tome — be in some way uncontroversial . many member focus on a few specific area , but I be interested that he look at the whole scope of the Bill , particularly around the civil liberty component and the GDPR issue , which be what much of the core of the Bill be about . there be a few point I would like to focus on , start with data accuracy . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who be not in her place , remark that to empower the public and business to take full advantage of the speed and simplicity offer by digital verification service , there must be a high degree of confidence in the accuracy of the datum provide by public authority . in the other place , the Minister acknowledge this concern , state that , as far as the datum underpin digital identity be concern , " we must have a single version of the truth " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 January 2025 ; Vol . 842 , c . 1620 . ] however , he do not support the amendment seek to guarantee the accuracy of datum hold by public authority for the purpose of digital verification service , and nor do the Secretary of State in his opening remark today . while the reliability of the datum that support digital identity be fundamentally important across the board , an area of particular importance be the accurate recording of biological sex . this be vital for ensure that service such as medical care be deliver properly and to protect female - only space . biased datum be bad than no data , and wrong datum be bad of all . we call on the Government to ensure that datum be robust and accurate as a matter of priority . we must ensure the digital infrastructure be in place to support the Bill ' s aim . we welcome the inclusion of provision for NHS datum sharing , and I should declare an interest as a former doctor whose wife be a doctor . I have speak many time of the importance of datum sharing . we focus on AI , but we need to get the basic right . nhs datum sharing , if implement effectively , will enable the fast and seamless transfer of patient datum between healthcare setting . it will lead to well clinical decision making and improve outcome for patient , and the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) will be able to see his patient more efficiently and more effectively . I pay tribute to the strength of his argument , and I hope he take the mantle I have when my party be in government of push for this to happen as quickly as possible . to harness those benefit , the Government have acknowledge that healthcare setting ' it system will need to meet common standard to facilitate datum sharing across platform . the previous Government set out a bold plan for upgrade the nation ' s digital infrastructure . this government must continue and expedite that work to ensure the NHS have the tool it need to implement the Bill ' s reform . finally , on the important subject of AI and copyright , the powerful debate both in the other place and here highlight the challenge , the complexity and the importance of make sure we get this right , particularly on the Government ' s proposal for a data mining opt - out , as mention in the consultation . many member have raise that point , include my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon and the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) and for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . we can not hold back the tide of change that AI have bring with it , nor can we put the genie back in the bottle , but we must do everything in our power to protect and promote our creative industry so that they can continue to thrive and grow , as they do with the support put in place by the previous Government during the pandemic . the Government ' s consultation on AI and copyright remain under way . my hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State speak about the overwhelming need for the Government to respond to the consultation as soon as possible . the Government must engage constructively with the industry and the official Opposition to identify solution that turbocharge our develop AI industry while protect and boost the growth of our creative sector . all of we , both those who work in the creative sector and those who benefit from it , understand just how important it be for our national identity . live music be one of my passion . it be the thing I miss most during the pandemic . the idea that we could end up cause harm to our creative industry fill I with horror . the Opposition want to make sure we get this right , not only for those whose livelihood depend on the industry but for all of we . this be complicated and difficult . if it be not , there would already be an answer — the Europeans would have an answer . this be a difficult situation that we need to get through . as the hon . Gentleman say , it be vital that we support our creative industry . will he clarify the Conservatives ' stance on opt in versus opt out , which be the current proposal ? our position be pretty much exactly as I have just set out in my speech . a Government consultation be under way that present four option , include the Government ' s preferred opt - out option . there be challenge with that opt - out approach , as well as with a whole range of different approach . as I have previously say from the Opposition Dispatch Box , whatever we do we must think about how that co - ordinate with what can happen in other jurisdiction . it be a complicated issue , and we need to ensure we get the legislation absolutely right . as I say , we need a response to the consultation as soon as possible so that we can chew through this far to find the good solution . in his sum up , I hope the Minister will update the House on that . the creative industry have be very clear about their position . the shadow Minister say that he wish to support the creative industry and that that be the position of his party , but would it be too much to suggest he might go a step far and say that he support the opt - in position , which be the position support by the creative industry ? that would give they reassurance that there be support from all part of the House for the position they be take . the shadow DSIT team , include our shadow Secretary of State , have meet representative of industry in general . I have meet representative of the creative industry , and I be fairly sure the shadow Secretary of State have too . that be what the consultation be there for . it would not be appropriate to make a unilateral declaration from the Dispatch Box when a live consultation be look into that complicated area . that would be not be reasonable opposition or good for anybody . there be no easy answer to some of the challenge , but we should not shy away from they give the clear gain for the public and the economy that many of the reform set out in the Bill will deliver . his Majesty ' s official Opposition and the shadow DSIT team stand ready to work with the Government , wherever possible , to find solution on these press issue . effective engagement between Government and Opposition will promote confidence among tech company and would - be investor that the UK be open for business . the last government ' s vision be to harness the UK ' s competitive advantage in tech industry to boost our economy and revolutionise the way we live for the benefit of our population . we remain committed to that goal in opposition . I call the Minister . I be a DSIT Minister today , but the debate feel remarkably like the creative industry debate a couple of week ago , when I be respond as the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . I will get on to some of the point about AI and copyright later , so if anybody want to intervene on I they can wait for that bit . I will start with some of the point hon . member have make . the measure on the NHS and datum be among the most positive in the Bill , and be welcome by everybody today . it be not in the previous version of the Bill ; it be one of our addition . [ Official Report , 25 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 11wc . ] ( Correction ) the other day , a colleague be tell I about her local hospital , and I be strike by the fact that it employ 42 people simply to carry around physical medical record . we have put our back into change that . that be not a good way to preserve record , or to ensure they be secure and not get lose , let alone anything else . my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) be absolutely right when he talk about patient passport . we need to turn the issue on its head , so that people have access to their datum and can participate in and make well decision about their own healthcare . as I say to my hon . Friend yesterday , that be similar to the change that happen a few year ago . after an appointment , consultant use to write to GP about the patient in doctor gobbledegook , but now many of they write to the patient in plain English , copy in the GP . that be the kind of change we need to see . I be very hopeful about the change that will be introduce by the Bill . as my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) say , they will make dramatic difference . we need to ensure the interoperability of all the IT system use across the whole of the NHS . I would like to extend that beyond England and Wales ; I would not mind if we could manage to do the same for Scotland and Northern Ireland , but I fear that even my friend the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who like I sometimes , would baulk a little at a United Kingdom - wide approach to such matter . I be also excited about the element of the Bill on smart datum , which have barely have a look - in in today ' s debate but which could be transformative in many sector . many of we will know that when we use our banking app , we be enable to go not just to our bank but to our insurance , include our car insurance , and all those thing can be relate to one another in a secure way . that be because of the smart datum system that have be in existence for the last few year . we need to roll that out in many other sector , and that be precisely what the Bill allow . for instance , in the gig economy , it will mean that Uber driver and those deliver for Deliveroo will have a well understanding of whether they be actually earn a living from each delivery . thirdly , nobody have refer to the reform of the Information Commissioner ' s Office . it be an important part of the Bill . there have be brief mention of the register of birth and death , which basically bring the modern world to the register office . as a former vicar , I suppose I be more interested in that than most , as I have hatch and dispatch quite a few in my time . will my hon . friend give way ? on birth and death ? of course . I thank the Minister for his excellent comment . I want to point out that I welcome the strengthening of the Information Commissioner ' s role . Hurrah . incidentally , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) refer to John Edwards , who , in my experience , be a very capable leader of the team there . I be sure my hon . friend and her Select Committee will have he in for evidence soon . a couple of member refer to datum adequacy , include the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) . that be obviously important to we . as the right hon . member for Maldon say , the Secretary of State have be work keenly with the European Commission . unfortunately , the previous Government end up with a data adequacy agreement with the EU that expire later on this year . that mean that our time be tight to make sure we maintain that . that be absolutely vital to our economic success as a country and , for that matter , for the rest of the EU . I know that everybody want to get there . it be not for we to tell the EU what process it should go through , but we have have very constructive conversation so far . they will not want to comment on a Bill that be still in flight , so the soon we can get it on to the statute book the well . my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) refer to music remuneration . for I , the issue of remuneration of musician be not just about the AI copyright debate ; there be many other issue . I do not think we have finish with the issue of streaming , incidentally . I have a successful meeting with the record label , lot of musician and the Musicians ' Union on Monday afternoon . I have give they a clear timetable for come back with a well offer to make sure that musician be properly remunerate . a quite famous tenor , who I will not name , texte I yesterday to say : " musician all feel that they have be sooooooo rip off by streaming . " that be " so " with seven o ' s — I do not know what Hansard will do with that . " I use to get two or three concert fee as advance royalty for a cd . now , it be effectively zero . it be theft , really . " those remark have be repeat in a different context today . we be work on that , and I be determined that we will have a proper look at how we properly remunerate our musician in this country , even if it be only to make sure that the shadow Minister , who declare that live music be one of the most important thing in his life , have people to go and listen to . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , who have just come back into the Chamber , make a very good speech about digital government . all the point that he make be one that we be determined to take up . several Members refer to Estonia — Tallinn , incidentally , be one of the good city in Europe to visit — but we also need to make sure that there be a digital inclusion element to that . if 19 % of poor home in the UK have no access to the internet , they will not have any access to Government digital service either . we need to transform all that , and the Secretary of State and I will probably have something to say about that in the near future . the right hon . member for Maldon note one other labour change , on subject access request . we would argue that one of the problem with the previous Bill be that it would have make it more difficult for people to get subject access request information . that be why we have a system where we think we have strengthen those right , and that we think be well for the average person in the street . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) refer to Baroness Owen ' s amendment . we be not quite sure that these be right . we want to ensure that we have a workable solution that everybody agree with by the time we finish in Committee . I be not sure whether he will be serve on the Committee , but perhaps that be a debate we will have — I look forward to that . we be very open to see how we can make sure that all the I ' s be in the right place and all the t ' s be correctly cross — not dot . the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) make some important point , although I have to say that I disagree with she — she may not be entirely surprise by that . in relation to the amendment bring forward by Lord Lucas , public authority must assess what information be require for a particular purpose . this govern whether and how sex or gender datum be process in a give situation or a give case . they be bind by data protection legislation to ensure that the personal datum be accurate for this purpose . where sex at birth be not an essential part of an identity check — for instance , when rent a property — organisation be not lawfully able to request this information . I think that be absolutely right for protect people ' s privacy . my hon . friend will know that I be one of the first Labour mp to raise in the Chamber the issue of sex - aggregate datum . can he assure I that the Government will ensure that datum on sex be accurate and reliable where necessary and will he expedite the publication of the Sullivan review ? we have to make sure it be accurate to the precise process for which it be be use , just as a passport have to be accurate for the precise purpose for which it be be use . I be not sure whether my hon . friend be intend to be on the Committee as well — indicate assent . oh dear , she be . I be not sure about have world - class rugby player on the Committee , but it be one of the issue I be very happy to debate with my hon . friend . we want to make sure we have get it right and that we manage to embrace everybody as much as we can . rise — oh dear , I have start something off . I be interested in the hon . Gentleman ' s concept of " for the purpose " . can he be clear that when he be write his dictionary of definition , as per clause 140 , he will ensure that the definition be clear so that when people be look at information on sex , they know whether they be deal with biological sex or some other definition that the Minister may have come up with ? I be go to call the 25th amendment — or whatever we have — and say that I will write to the hon . Lady on that . we be get a bit more technical than I be able to answer precisely , but my bottom line be that if somebody be apply to rent a property , the landlord should not have to know both sex at birth and gender . that be an inappropriate invasion of people ' s privacy . I should add that the hon . Lady also refer to people be able to change in change room , and I completely agree with her point about woman be able to change in protect space . it just seem to I we need to use a great deal of common sense in this area . the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) , refer to the national data library and open standard and open source . again , I will have to write to she . as she will know , this area be move fast in relation to legislative and it idea , so we will want to work with people , include her Select Committee , to make sure we reach the right set of decision . turn to the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted , I make a mistake early and have to apologise to she . when refer to automate decision making , I talk about meaningful human involvement . that be indeed in the original Bill introduce by the right hon . member for Maldon , but I think it be a vital addition to the current framework , which be why it be important . I be pleased that our new Government have go far by commit to require the Information Commissioner ' s Office to do a code of practice on automate decision making and AI to make sure this really work in the interest of everybody . that will support the safe adoption and deployment of the technology . the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) quite rightly raise the case of his constituent Ellen Roome , which we have discuss previously . unfortunately , I be unable to speak in the debate he take part in , because I be speak in the main Chamber at the time . I can tell he that coroner will be able to use a data protection process under the Bill and we hope that will be sufficient , but I be quite happy to discuss whether we can go far . I have discuss with several member the question of whether family should have access to their child ' s social media account . there be obvious danger in that because of safeguard issue that might arise , but I think he understand that as well . to clarify , the Jools Law Bill would simply require access to the social media account and datum of deceased child . there be no risk to those child in those circumstance because they would already be dead . that be the original point that I be try to make , and I obviously do not make it as well as the hon . Member do , so I congratulate he on that . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) be a bit critical of article 70 , but I think that he be be a bit unfair . the requirement in subsection 8 and 9 , and then later in 11 and 12 of the article be very clear about the circumstance — and they be the only circumstance — in which the Secretary of State can bring forward change of the kind to which he refer . I hope that we will be able to please he , if not appease he , if that matter appear in Committee or on Report . I just want to finish with some comment on AI and IP , not least because there have be so much focus on this area . all of we on the Front Bench want to have a data Bill , because we think that it be really important for our economy and for so many different aspect of the way that we deliver Government service . we also want a debate about AI and copyright , which be why we launch the consultation , but it feel odd to be do a bit of that in this Bill . let I turn now to what the shadow Secretary of State say early . I ask ChatGPT what the view of the shadow Secretary of State be on AI and copyright . it reply , " regard his view on copyright , there be no publicly available information indicate that he have express specific opinion on this matter . " well , yes , we hear that this afternoon , didn ' t we ? I hope the Opposition manage to find some idea at some point . this be a very serious matter and it be one of the trickiest issue that any country have to face at this point . I think that it be tricky for our country than most other , because we be the third large AI economy in the world , and we be probably the second or , at bad , the third great IP country in the world . we have creator in every single sphere . some country specialise in one particular form of the creative industry , but we manage to do all of they . that be why I be listen very attentively to the contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire and many other as well . I just want to focus on the thing on which there be some agreement . I think there be agreement across the House on the idea that transparency be an important part of what we need to ensure in this legislation , and on the aim of control over intellectual property right , and on possibly end a strong version of right reservation for the creative industry . I can announce that we have set up two work group in the past week , both of which have people from the creative industry and from the AI company in they . one be specifically look at transparency and what that look like to be effective and proportionate , and it will start work on that next week . [ Official Report , 25 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 11wc . ] ( Correction ) secondly , on the question of right reservation , I fully understand that people be sceptical about whether there be a simple technical mean of everybody be about to assert their right — will the Minister give way ? I will in a moment , if the hon . member let I finish this point . I know that people be sceptical because such a means do not exist at the moment . I have say before that the robot . txt system do not work ; it effectively mean that a person be wipe from the internet , and lot of people do not know how to use it — it be far too technical . if , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North say , there be a system of simple digital fingerprinting where people could say , " no , you can ' t use my work " or , " yes , you can use my work for large language model training once you ' ve remunerate I , " that would be a great outcome for everybody , because it would lead to a new system of remuneration . that could be do individually or for an artist , it could be do through dac , and for a musician it could be do through their record label . will the Minister give way ? I will in a moment . that be why I be keen on not sell the pass on that possibility by have undermine it before we get there . the Minister be right — there be not much difference between we now . we be get to a place where we be begin to agree about the way forward , but we be deal with this Bill , which have clause that protect copyright and ensure transparency . what I think he be ask we to do be to set those concern aside for a Bill that might come in the future , which may include the provision that we already have . be that roughly a correct characterisation of where we be go ? no , it be not . what be true be that , as I say , we want to get to a concrete idea of what transparency might look like . not enough work have be do in the EU or in different territory — in the United States of America , for instance , where different state have different arrangement — and we need to do more about what that should look like in the UK . as I say , if the creative industry and the AI company can do that together , that could give we a nugget of useful progress . likewise , if we can get to what I be call fingerprint , for want of a well term — I know there be a system of fingerprinting — that would get we to the licensing of 60 % , 70 % or 80 % , and that would be significant . I do not want to sell the pass on that whole package by take too many step at this point , but we will discuss this in Committee and on Report . I be conscious that I have Margate behind I , so I give way . it be not only Margate ; East Thanet have three cultural driver — Margate , Ramsgate and Broadstairs — all with phenomenal amount of cultural engine throughout the century . many writer such as Wilkie Collins and Jane Austen be well out of copyright . musician , visual artist and writer often earn little money . it be great to hear that we will have those work group . they need to be confident that they will be pay by the machine , as it be , because otherwise they will end up even bad off than they be at the moment . some 40 % of greeting card designer have lose their job because of this issue . I urge the hon . Gentleman to come to Margate to hear what be be say by the creative industry here , and I be glad to hear that the Secretary of State be also keen to meet those in the creative industry . Tracey Emin and Russell Tovey have also invite I to Margate , so I think it be inevitable at some point . we be try to get to a win - win , and we do not believe that be unachievable , which be why I be keen on stick with the process of the consultation . we will respond to the consultation as soon as we can , although a large number of people have respond and we want to take the response seriously . whatever we choose to do in the end , I would have think that it will look like a full , stand - alone Bill . that may include element of what Baroness Kidron have put in , element from elsewhere or , for that matter , bit of the copyright directive , such as article 18 and 20 , which the former Government help draft and then do not incorporate into UK law . it might be a whole series of different thing , but it need to be consider in the round . will my hon . friend give way ? oh Lord ! I be sort of try to get to the end . I share my hon . friend ' s desire to get to the end , and his faith in the ability of technology to deliver solution . as I say in an early intervention , my Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and the Culture , Media and Sport Committee bring together technologist and creative with exactly that ambition . I be pleased to hear about the work group that he have put in place , but I urge he to be transparent about who be in they — not necessary now , but perhaps he will write to my Committee — so that we can see how they be progress in a transparent way . it be important that the technological solution be view as openly as possible . yes , we will be transparent about the transparency work group — it be a good point . for that matter , I be happy — as be any of the Ministers — to give evidence to my hon . friend ' s Committee , or to a joint Committee , on those inquiry . the Minister be be extremely generous with his time . and everybody else ' s . he talk about deepfake pornography — the purport intimate image . one undertaking that the Government give Baroness Owen of Alderley Edge be that they would remove the prosecution limitation of six month from the offence be commit . however , I have not see that in the Bill . do the Government intend to table an amendment in Committee , or would they accept an Opposition amendment at that stage ? I will not accept an amendment that I have not yet see , but that be one issue that we be definitely already work on , and we intend to address it in Committee . government amendment for Committee must be table within a fortnight from yesterday , so that will all be happen fairly soon . if the hon . Lady can bide her patience for a while , I would be grateful . we be work to get to a resolution that everybody will be happy with . I will make a few final point about AI and intellectual property . several Members speak about legislative change in that field . I completely agree that there will have to be legislation change , and I think it would be well if that be do in a single stand - alone Bill . that be why we launch the consultation . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) be absolutely right to say that we must get this right for this country ' s creative people and our economy — it be about both those thing together . my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) be absolutely right : there might be a win - win solution that provide certainty , clarity and remuneration for both AI and creative industry , and that be what we be strive for . my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) be rather shy about her own success in life . in 2008 , she be name Royal Television Society writer of the year for " Summerhill " . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] she be absolutely right about three thing : first , that we should look after the right of creative , and I agree ; secondly , that we should protect their income , and I agree ; and thirdly , the importance of human being — I 100 % agree . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , with whom I look forward to give the Bill the proper scrutiny that the House expect in Committee — alongside our liberal Democrat counterpart , the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) — say that he like live music . I do , too ; the next gig I be go to be Kylie , again — I be not a stereotype at all . last night , I go to the Royal Opera House to see " Festen " , the new opera by Mark - Anthony Turnage , base on the movie and the play . the shadow Minister be right that absolutely nothing beat live music , and we will do absolutely nothing to undermine it . interestingly , the libretto , which be write by Baroness Kidron ' s husband , end with the word of Dame Julian of Norwich : " all shall be well , and all manner of thing shall be well . " I think that also apply to AI and copyright . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 18 March 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of — ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , the Treasury , a government department or another public authority , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee or levy under or by virtue of the Act ; ( 2 ) the requiring of payment in connection with cost incur by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority for the purpose of a tender exercise relate to a smart meter communication licence ; and ( 3 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Energy Bill Relief Scheme and Energy Bills Discount Scheme ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . Petition - Umana Yana restaurant in Herne Hill I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of Dulwich and West Norwood . the petition be in support of a restaurant call Umana Yana in Herne Hill in my constituency . it be a wonderful restaurant run by Deborah Monfries and her family , who be in the Public Gallery today . Deborah ' s restaurant serve delicious guyanese food , and I would commend it to all member in the House . however , it have suffer a detriment in recent year as a consequence of the installation of enormous telecommunications cabinet that obscure the view of the restaurant for pass customer . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons consider this issue and urge the Government to bring forward legislation to ensure small business be not block from view by telecommunication equipment , to ensure the removal of equipment affect small business , like Umana Yana , and that business be duly compensate by the telecom company for disruption . " I would add that petition online and locally have be sign by more than 1 , 700 local resident . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the owner and supporter of Umana Yana , Herne Hill , declare that Umana Yana , an independent restaurant in Herne Hill , have face serious disruption to their trade due to telecommunication box place immediately outside their premise ; note that Umana Yana have be part of the local community for over fifteen year but have face a significant fall in footfall as the shop can no long be see from the street , and that over 1700 people have sign local and online petition in support of the restaurant ; further note that the shop have see a loss of revenue for this value community focus business ; and far declare that small business across the country have face similar challenge due to telecom infrastructure place without due consideration of nearby shop . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons consider this issue and urge the Government to bring forward legislation to ensure small business be not block from view by telecommunication equipment , to ensure the removal of equipment affect small business , like Umana Yana , and that business be duly compensate by the telecom company for disruption . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003043 ] Petition - Safety standard in the scaffolding industry I be present this petition on behalf of my constituent Maria Dennis , who tragically lose her 11 - year - old son , Harry Dennis , two year ago in a tragic accident when an unsecured scaffolding board from a flatbe truck go through the windscreen of the car carry Harry , kill he . I want to pay tribute to Harry ' s mum , Maria , for her determination to channel her grief into campaigning and action to make sure that a tragedy such as this never happen again . Maria be campaign to raise awareness of the danger of unsafe load so that other family do not have to endure this agony . unsafe load kill hundred of people every year , and it be estimate that 62 , 000 item fall off vehicle on the strategic road network in the last year alone . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review the current law and guidance in this area , include safety standard , skill training and awareness of the risk . this petition have be sign by about 2 , 000 people . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of Maria Georgina Dennis , declare that the petitioner ' s 11 - year old son be tragically kill in December 2022 , when an unsecured scaffold board come loose from the back of a flatbe van and travel through the windscreen of the petitioner ' s vehicle ; note that the Health and Safety Executive write in her report that the securing of the load be " grossly inadequate " and " the insecure loading cause an immediate and likely risk of ' harm ' " ; and further note that the defendant protest in court that he have not be train properly . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review current law and guidance follow by scaffold business and ensure that scaffold personnel must , by law , be a member of a govern body who be responsible for control how scaffold business be run include safety standard , strengthen skill training and to improve the level of scaffold competence . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003044 ] SEND provision : derbyshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to bring forward this debate . I know that the Labour Government have inherit a broken system of special educational need and disability provision — break by 14 year of Tory under - investment , mismanagement and chaos . even know this , I be shock by the number of Amber Valley parent and carer who have reach out to I desperate for help . they have be let down by a national SEND system in measured decline and , in Derbyshire , by a county council demonstrate " widespread and / or systemic failing " . SEND provision throughout the country be in a bad state , but in Derbyshire it be at crisis point . this Government be commit to " break down barrier to opportunity " . where previous Conservative Governments fail , we will succeed in rebuild our SEND system and ensure it be properly fund . in Derbyshire , however , we must go far . derbyshire county council be fail our child . that be the story I have hear over and over from parent , carer and educator in Amber Valley . it be therefore no surprise to read of widespread and systemic failing in Ofsted ' s damn report on Derbyshire county council ' s SEND provision . by the time Ofsted publish its finding in November 2024 , I have already hear about those failing at first hand through countless email and surgery appointment . want to get a true picture of the scale of the issue , I conduct a survey on SEND provision in Amber Valley . the result speak for themselves , with 88 % of respondent rate SEND provision in Amber Valley as poor and only 2 % say it be good . some 83 % complain of long waiting time , 81 % say that provision in mainstream school be insufficient , and 70 % say that they have experience problem obtain an education , health and care plan , which be the first step in access support for their child . I commend the hon . Lady on bring this debate forward . I speak to she beforehand . it be heartbreaking to hear what she be say about her constituency , and I understand that , but the situation be replicate across this whole great United Kingdom . the number of member who be here to speak be an indication of how many want to voice their concern . she be right to talk about those who be wait . do she agree that early diagnosis and early intervention be all that really matter ? if we can get that do early , we can save a child . it can give a child a future and an opportunity , and it can take the pressure off the parent as well . I thank the hon . member for his intervention on a matter that I know be close to his heart . he be absolutely right . the delay be a real concern , and diagnosis at an early stage be important , but that be not what we be see in Derbyshire . that be the worry . have read the ofsted report , it be clear that the SEND operation in Derbyshire county council be in complete chaos , with what appear to be a revolving door of senior officer , unfilled post , consultant and temporary position . my constituent Claire tell I that the council be completely unresponsive , and that point about nobody ever get back to people be a recur theme . do my hon . friend agree that it be imperative that Derbyshire county council get its act together and start respond to parent who be in such desperate need ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I think that every Derbyshire MP will testify to the same thing : that phone be not answer and email go un - respond to . it be not sustainable for this to be the status quo . so many people in Amber Valley want to talk to I about their experience . what be plan as a small , intimate roundtable event soon become a large town hall meeting full of concerned parent , each with a story to tell . from this , a clear picture emerge . child and young people be be fail at every step in the process . family be wait far too long for the education and health assessment to allow they to access the specialist help that they need . as a result , many child be miss significant portion of their education , with some fall out of school altogether . that be all while Derbyshire county council fail to communicate , just as my hon . Friend say . as my hon . friend know , I represent the nearby constituency of Rushcliffe in Nottinghamshire , where the average waiting time for neurodevelopmental assessment be 54 week . that be actually an improvement from a year ago , when it be 68 week . do my hon . friend agree that a lot of what she be describe be systemic , as have be mention , and that this Government need to address it urgently ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the Government need to grip this issue across the country . unfortunately , we understand his plight only too well in Derbyshire . parent and carer talk about barrier at every stage of the process and about how they be " ignore " by an " unresponsive " council . a big part of our challenge in fix the foundation of SEND provision be , of course , funding . that make it all the more shocking to learn of the SEND budget leave unspent by Derbyshire county council . in a debate in the Chamber on 23 April 2024 , my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) highlight that of £ 17 . 5 million receive since 2019 , only £ 1 . 5 million have be spend . that be nothing short of a scandal — £ 16 million unspent . that money be specifically allocate to create new school place for child with special educational need and disability . derbyshire county council claim that it could not rush the allocation of the fund , but we be talk about six year — child will have start and end their secondary school education in that time . what it have manage to spend , however , be about half a million pound on two consultant for strategic help on child ' s service . the family I have speak to say that , despite that , they have see no improvement . they say that have the council just engage with parent , carer and educator , they would have receive a wealth of advice for free . our child and their family be pay the price . these child be miss education , be label as " disruptive " and suffer from poor mental health . while Derbyshire county council be fail to create the new , much - need and fund SEND place , my constituent Chris Spencer ' s son be miss school . Chris tell I that his son have be assess as need a place in a SEND special school but that none be available . his son be miss out on vital education , make friend and the support he need . without a school place , Chris be care full time for his son at home , make it impossible for he to go to work . he tell I : " I want a job … I want to work , but I can ' t " . derbyshire county council not only fail to supply Chris ' s son with a promise school place but issue he with two fine for non - attendance . the first be withdraw by the council after I intervene on Chris ' s behalf , but the second go to court , where the judge throw out the case . it should not come to this — for an MP and a judge to have to intervene — before anything be do . I be afraid that that story be just one of dozen . Angie Hardy , another constituent of mine , after year of fighting on behalf of her three son , each with SEND , be still wait on an EHCP , an annual review and the much - need transport that have be promise . as a result , one of her son have not be able to attend school since February 2022 — yet another child miss out on education and the support they need to succeed . many other parent talk about resort to legal challenge . they have find tribunal and judicial review not only extremely stressful , but with legal aid solicitor now so hard to come by — another victim of Tory austerity , I be afraid , and one that the Justice Committee , of which I be a member , fully understand — extremely costly . that be a common experience . one mother tell I that " judge be award place now , not the local authority " . I have be support parent in Derby North who currently face a wait of more than a year for their child ' s SEND tribunal , cause agony as they be leave in limbo . we know that the historical lack of funding for local authority , suitable school place and educational psychologist have contribute to the delay . do my hon . friend agree that the delay be yet another example of a SEND system that , as the Education Secretary say , have be " neglect to the point of crisis " ? I agree . crisis — a word that I have already use in this debate — be what we be face right across the country . I be very concerned about that . in Derbyshire we face that very challenge , as well as all the additional challenge of the systemic problem in the county council . as high as the legal cost for family can be , the emotional cost be still high . all parent and carer want the good for their child and I find it impossible not to feel for family who , time and again , talk about be exhaust from constantly fight : for timely , accurate diagnosis and care plan ; for the little provision that be available ; and even for the transport need to get their child to school . many family be at break point . they say that it should not be so hard , and they be right . the Conservatives at Derbyshire county council have acknowledge the failing and issue an apology . that be a necessary first step , but it be far from sufficient . it have be five month since Ofsted uncover widespread and systemic failing . although the council claim to be make improvement , the pace of change be far too slow . only two week ago , fellow Derbyshire Labour mp and I meet representative of the National Association of Headteachers . the story that they tell mirror the frustration and heartache experience by the hundred of parent and carer who have reach out to we in desperation . they tell we that they , too , face a daily fight to be hear by Derbyshire county council . too often , their email go unanswered , they be make to jump through bureaucratic hoop to access the support that should be in place , and the revolving door of leadership have lead to confusion and uncertainty . while the leader and the plan might change , we be tell say that there have be no tangible improvement . ehcp , which should be process within 20 week — a long time for any parent to wait — can take more than 50 week , as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) say . that be practically a year . not only do educator not feel confident that their concern will be hear ; they fear petty reprisal . more worrying still , they say that the lack of funding be affect not only their most vulnerable pupil but all pupil , as class size increase and teaching capacity can not keep up . I thank my hon . friend for secure this incredibly important debate . my constituency neighbour derbyshire , and I recently hold a roundtable on SEND provision with parent and teacher from school and college . the issue that repeatedly come up be funding , and the disparity in funding not just between school but across local authority area . do my hon . friend agree that we need consistency of SEND provision across county line in order to provide good - quality SEND provision for all our child ? I agree that we need more consistency . one of the concern in the ofsted report just for Derbyshire be that there be no consistency , because of the lack of a clearly define joint strategy . the support be describe by parent as a postcode lottery — we have that problem just within derbyshire itself . teacher be work so hard for the child in their care , but they still feel that they be fail they , through no fault of their own . school be rely on the good will of staff just to function . due to insufficient funding , stress and exhaustion , we be lose amazing teacher who give their all every day . that be the real - life impact of widespread and systemic failing . many family still feel helpless , as their child be label disruptive and parent ' ability to be a good parent and provide adequate care be call into question . bad of all , I hear from parent of child , some as young as 12 , who have become so desperate that they have consider take their own life . these child should be thrive in a stimulating learn environment , enjoy make friend and develop their skill . they should not feel so forgotten and lose that they tell their parent that they want to die . as I have say , we be at crisis point in Derbyshire . we can not allow this situation to continue . the child of Derbyshire deserve well ; their family deserve well ; and we , as Labour MPs , demand well . I be grateful to the Department for issue an improvement notice on 14 January , set out the requirement the Secretary of State have place on Derbyshire county council to ensure improvement . this decisive action appear to have make the council jump to attention , with its priority impact plan publish two week later . however , Madam Deputy Speaker , you can understand the scepticism of educator across Derbyshire , give that they have see it all before , with no few than eight plan put in place since 2018 . this time must be different . if this Conservative county council can not or will not make these improvement with the urgency they demand , the voter can replace it with a Labour council that absolutely will . my fellow Labour derbyshire mp and I have promise that as hard as teacher , parent and carer have be fight , we will fight , too . we be fight for real change , real accountability and a real commitment to provide the education and support that every child with special educational need and disability deserve . that be our promise , and it be one we intend to keep . rise — order . you can all see that a number of Members wish to contribute this evening . I will just issue a point of clarity : the Adjournment motion will have to be move again at 7 pm , so whoever be on their foot at that point should be aware that I will interrupt they . it would be a courtesy to fellow member if you could all restrict your comment to five minute or so . I start by commend my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for secure this important debate and for her impassione plea on behalf of the child and family of Derbyshire . as a dad , I know that parenting be at one and the same time the hard and most amazing experience we can have . as a society , we must support family well . in High Peak , Derbyshire county council have be fail family on an industrial scale . in every canvassing session and advice surgery I conduct , I invariably meet family struggle to secure the right support for their child with special education need , such be the scale of the challenge in Derbyshire . the family I have meet in my constituency be frustrated , exhausted and angry ; they feel they be face a system that seem to be actively work against they , rather than have their back . as my hon . Friend say in her speech , Ofsted find that the Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council be responsible for widespread and systemic failing in support child with special educational need and their family . of all the myriad failing of the derbyshire Conservatives — and there be myriad — the way they have let down child with SEND and their family be the most egregious . it be deeply worrying , but sadly not surprising , as we know that between November 2023 and June 2024 , Derbyshire county council pay nearly £ 350 , 000 in compensation to family it have fail . last week , I visit Whaley Bridge primary school , where more than 40 % of the student have special educational need . I meet with the headteacher , Seren Hathway , and the chair of governor , Ian Bingle , and see for myself the amazing work they do to support child with SEND . if Derbyshire county council have just half the level of commitment and professionalism as Seren , Ian and all the family I have meet , we would not be here have this debate today . my hon . Friend reference a very high percentage — I think 40 % . in Nottinghamshire , each month over the past 12 month we have see a 50 % increase in SEND diagnose in comparison to the year before . do he agree that more research must be do to understand the relative growth in special educational need , so we can get to the heart of the issue ? yes , it be vital that we understand what may be drive some need . at the end of the day , though , this be not a problem of increase need , but the result of absolute systemic failing in Derbyshire county council and the system more widely . I be pleased that the Government be determined to fix this break system and see that our mission to remove the barrier to opportunity for all our child be achieve . this be a fundamental part of that mission . end the year of failure of Derbyshire county council will not be easy . I be determined to work with family in High Peak and with my Derbyshire colleague to put pressure on Derbyshire county council to finally provide the support our child desperately need . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for secure this extremely important debate . put simply , this be an issue I hear about from constituent every single day , as do all my derbyshire colleague . in Erewash , SEND family face an uphill battle . Conservative Derbyshire county council have , as we have be hear about , consistently fail my constituent , as it have fail constituent across the county , cause anxiety and frustration in make any progress on the education and care of our child . we have hear already this evening about the ofsted report , which confirm what many family in Derbyshire already know : that SEND provision be fail at almost every level , if not every level . the issue raise with I repeatedly by my constituent be rightly highlight in the report : communication between family and the local authority . email and phone call be roundly ignore , mean that family be not update . they be leave in limbo for month . we hear about the incredible length of time that some family go through to get their ehcp in place . sometimes it take year , and that leave SEND family feel alone . indeed , many of my colleague will be receive multiple new case every week . I write to Derbyshire county council multiple time every week to raise these issue . at a SEND drop - in I hold in Erewash I be tell of the case of a child who need specialist education , much like we have hear from colleague this evening . he be offer a place in a school that be ready and able to provide support . all Derbyshire county council have to do be approve the placement . however , the council take three month to respond and by the time it do , the offer have be close . the child ' s current school put in an emergency review , which again have no response from Derbyshire county council , so it then have to go to mediation . since the response to mediation , there have be no further progress . the child be still not receive the require education , have only two day of alternative provision a week . the process be complicated , long , unnecessarily draw out , and incredibly painful for the child and family involve . to make matter bad , that child and their family have have no few than nine case officer over the past several year , an incredible lack of consistency that make communication between the local authority and the family even more difficult . derbyshire have a crisis , as we have hear from multiple colleague this evening . SEND family be be let down time and time again . conservative - run Derbyshire county council be fail our most vulnerable child every single day . while Derbyshire now have a labour representative in every constituency , it be incredibly disappointing that not one Conservative Member of Parliament have join we this evening to hear about our plight with Derbyshire county council . I be pleased hear in the Budget that the Government be provide an extra £ 1 billion towards SEND service . I be also very pleased to hear that the Government will be review SEND service . evidently these service all over the country , but especially in Derbyshire , need to be review and must be repair . the Conservatives be responsible for this chaos , but I believe in the power of education to change life and that all child , regardless of their circumstance , have a fundamental right to an excellent education . special educational need provision across Derbyshire be dire . I be thrilled that my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) have secure the debate , but I be horrified that special educational need provision be so awful that it have come to the attention of Parliament . to those who live in Barlborough , Pinxton , Calow , Pleasley or anywhere in between , that be no surprise . a mum from Shirebrook be in tear on the doorstep because her baby have be let down so badly ; a teaching assistant in Creswell tell I how overwhelmed she be because the demand for resource be so high and the resource available so low ; and a little boy in Clowne be self - harm because he just want to go to school like all his friend . all those people know why thing be as bad as this . I do not have to tell they . sixteen million pound underspent by Conservative - control Derbyshire county council : they repeat that to I time and again . this be never about lack of money ; it be always about local conservative choose to fail our young people . Bolsover resident know that the Conservatives at Derbyshire county council have £ 16 million with which to support they and their little one , and choose not to spend it . it be therefore no surprise that Ofsted find widespread and systemic failing , with family wait too long and feel ignore , and child miss large amount of education . conservative failure have hit Bolsover very hard . one in six pupil there receive SEN support , and far more need it . when I meet head from across Bolsover last year , special educational need failure be the first issue that they raise . one school have 200 student on the SEND register , but have to park those who do not qualify for additional provision because it do not have the capacity to give those child what they need . another have five child who need a special need school place but have be unable to obtain one , with one of those child remain in the nursery class for several year as a result . a local family move to Bolsover from Essex , bring their autistic son ' s EHCP with they . Conservative - control Derbyshire County Council lose the paperwork . it do not respond to email and it do not respond to my staff . the six school consult say that they could not accommodate the child because they already have too many SEN child on their register . they do not have enough staff , and they do not have enough resource , so that child have no school place . he have not be at school during the current academic year , and have no tutor allocate . his parent be do what they can to ensure that he do not fall behind . his mother have turn down two job to stay at home and educate he . the parent be angry and frustrate with the council ' s lack of communication or concern for their child ' s education . every one of those story be a personal tragedy for the people involve . childhood be be lose . family finance be put under strain . relationship be break down . in a battle to help special educational need child to reach their potential , parent and teacher be hit a brick wall . a headteacher tell I that they think the Conservative county council see they as the enemy . when those who care for our baby be make to feel like that , how can our child ' s special educational need ever be meet ? be under no illusion : politic do matter . this be the good example of the difference it make to all our life . for Bolsover resident — for Derbyshire resident — this be the negative impact that politic can have . our child be be fail by conservative politician at Derbyshire county council with a £ 16 million underspend , long waiting list , fail ofsted inspection , school drown , kid suffer , family in crisis . the Conservatives have have their chance , and they have fail . the only way to change this be for Labour to win control of the county council in May . a Labour Government back by a Labour county council be our only chance of see real improvement in special educational need provision for Bolsover and beyond . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for secure this crucial Adjournment debate . as she rightly indicate , SEND provision in Derbyshire have reach crisis point . her point about Conservative - run Derbyshire county council ' s unspent SEND funding , and the heartbreaking consequence for family , be sadly all too familiar and echo so many of the story bring to I by my own constituent , who be in desperate need of support . the scale of this issue be staggering . throughout my election campaign , it be no secret that SEND would be a key issue for I if I be elect . a week after I be elect , I hold my first community SEND meeting , which be pack . what I have not expect be that after seven month in office , a third of all my constituency casework would relate to SEND — and the number continue to climb . in my inbox , at my surgery and on the doorstep across South Derbyshire , parent tell I heartbreake story about the decline mental health of their child , who be out of education or strand in inappropriate setting . many parent , include those work in education , describe extreme stress , financial hardship and lose work time as they navigate a broken system . other who be less familiar with the process find it totally overwhelming . meanwhile , their child ' s mental health deteriorate as they be leave without the support they desperately need . a lack of communication from Derbyshire county council leave parent feel unheard and their child forget . in some case , SEND caseworker have leave post without inform family , leave they email outdated contact in desperation and without response . gap in specialist provision mean that many child , particularly those with social , emotional and mental health need , be not receive the support they be entitle to . under section 19 of the Education Act 1996 , if a child be out of school for 15 day or more , the local authority must provide suitable full - time education . my constituent tell I that this be not happen . there be a lack of alternative provision , a lack of tutoring option and a lack of accountability . despite parent , school and professional agree that mainstream setting often can not meet SEND child ' s need , the local authority continue to name unsuitable placement on education , health and care plan . that force many family into lengthy and costly tribunal that can take over a year to conclude . valuable placement in appropriate school be lose due to local authority delay , leave child strand and without education . consider my constituent Theresa and Nathan . their daughter have cerebral palsy , autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . transition into mainstream secondary school severely affect her mental health , lead to self - harm and suicidal thought . delay in her EHCP process mean that she lose a place in a suitable special setting . at 14 year old , she be on antidepressant and have remain out of education since January 2024 — that be over a year . Theresa , Nathan and their daughter deserve well . the ream of family who contact I for support deserve well , and the countless family across Derbyshire who be fight to secure the right provision for their child deserve so much well . this Government have make a very clear and welcome commitment to turn 3 , 000 spare classroom into nursery . do my hon . friend agree that where demand for nursery support be low , we could look at alternative way of use those classroom to enhance SEND provision at a local level ? I agree , but frankly it would be great if Derbyshire county council could get the basic right . although my team and I will always work constructively with the local authority to right the wrong endure by SEND child and family across South Derbyshire , the council ' s chronic mismanagement of this crisis be indefensible . school be struggle , parent be out of work and their child be leave without opportunity to thrive . I stand firmly with my hon . friend and fellow Labour mps across Derbyshire in hold Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council to account and call on it to spend the million of pound in unallocated funding to make this right . the status quo can not continue . I would like to start by thank all the previous speaker for their heartfelt contribution . it be clear that this be an issue that affect we all , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for secure this important debate . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) like all the other member from Derbyshire sit here today , I have receive hundred of email on the terrible state of SEND provision in Derbyshire , and hundred of story of child and their family be let down by Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council . while our wonderful staff member all do their good to help and to deal with these case , we know that behind every number there be a heart - wrench story of a family who want the good for their child yet , despite all the love in the world , feel that they be prevent from give they this . one of these story concern my constituent Lacey , who contact we in despair over her son Spencer , who suffer from a rare genetic condition call mucopolysaccharidosis type 6 , or MPS . the condition , which affect every bone and organ in Spencer ' s body , mean that he have special educational need . he be mean to start secondary school in September — an exciting time for any young person . the family be look forward to buy his first - ever secondary school uniform and take the big photo outside his family home for his first day at big school . devastatingly , this do not happen . in June his family be tell the news that his choose school have no place for he and that , even bad , there be not a single SEND place suitable for he available in derbyshire at all . this be a failure of planning . the issue here be clear : it be Derbyshire county council that have fail . member do not have to take my word for it ; as we have already hear , Ofsted say in its inspection just last year that there be widespread and systemic failure lead to significant concern , make it one of the bad in the country . I want to put on record just how serious the situation have become in Derbyshire . we know that SEND provision all across the country have be struggle in general , but it be clear that there be other factor at play in Derbyshire to result in such a dire finding . the ofsted report make it clear that this be the result of several year of uncertainty at Derbyshire , with senior post unfille or fill by interim and contract staff . shockingly , some senior staff be not present for the inspection itself . clearly there have be a failure of leadership for several year now by the conservative leadership of the council , and the conservative cabinet member for education in not grip the problem or realise what it take to deliver a long - term plan . instead , they have be too content to let consultant provide they with shiny PowerPoints instead of deliver real change for our constituent . we desperately need real change at Derbyshire county council , because for as long as the Conservatives be in control of the council , I fear that the situation will not improve . I will not throw my hand up and say , " oh , it be what it be . SEND be difficult everywhere . " like my colleague , I would like to say to my constituent who be worried about the challenge face their child , " I will never stop fight . " we will never stop fight and stand up for those child , to get the education they need and deserve . I want to thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour , the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , for secure this important debate for we tonight , because whether you be young or old in Derbyshire , it feel like you have a county council that be not on your side . SEND make up a big amount of my postbag , as do the decision to consider close the Ada Belfield care home in my constituency , which be greatly value across the community for its quality and safety , and for its kind , compassionate , person - centre care . that be a concern to many local people as well . we have a widespread selection of issue in Derbyshire for which the county council be responsible . I read with interest , although not surprise , the ofsted report that be publish just before Christmas . as colleague have say , it identify widespread and systemic failing in the SEND provision in Derbyshire , and I have to say that it be not a surprise to read that report . that be what local people have be tell I for quite some time , but I think the report give they a sense of vindication . up to that point , they be almost feel that maybe it be they , maybe they do not understand or appreciate the situation , or maybe they be the only one . but that report give local people a sense that they be not alone . there be many people in Mid Derbyshire and right across the county who be hold back by the situation with our special educational need provision in the county . I spend a little time think about how we get here . colleague have rightly say that the council make strategic choice — political choice — that mean the service it be provide be not effective enough . we have hear that the council do not spend £ 16 million of the money it have to support our child and young people with special educational need , and I find that level of incompetence absolutely staggering . I be conscious that council across the country , not just Derbyshire county council , have face a decade and a half of the most appalling funding cut . derbyshire county council ' s budget be around £ 1 billion a year in 2010 , which be around £ 1 . 5 billion in today ' s money . I understand that today its budget be £ 780 million , so around half of what it be in real term . we know from the SEND report that there probably have not be enough integration between the NHS and the county council on this issue . one good thing the last Government do be to set up the integrate care board , as well as the integrate care partnership that oversee those board . I be proud to sit on the Derby and derbyshire integrate care partnership prior to my election to this place . some good work come through , but understandably , give the state of the NHS , primary and acute care take up most of the body ' s time . I would like the integrate care board and the integrated care partnership to spend more time on the wide determinant of people ' s health , particularly people with disability and long - term condition . as the Government ' s plan for change be implement , I hope we will see acute and primary care restore to where they should be , so that local NHS leader have more time to support SEND provision . the Government be make a significant investment in local authority , and I be pleased to learn early this month that we will be provide more than £ 69 billion of funding to council , which represent a 6 . 8 % cash term increase in core spending power . we also have £ 2 . 3 billion come for school , include £ 1 billion for SEND . aspect of the autumn Budget be truly remarkable and lay the foundation for rebuild public service and give our child and young people opportunity in life . I be sorry to say that some have use our child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to talk about another sinister issue in society , but that Bill will give a real boost to child and young people in Derbyshire ' s school , particularly through the breakfast club . I ask the Minister to make sure that child who benefit from home - to - school transport be able to attend and participate in those breakfast club . I do not want to come to this debate just to outline a situation that our resident know about , and that we all know about from our constituency postbag ; I also want to outline solution for the council . this government be respond to council ' need and invest money in our child and young people , and now we need Derbyshire county council ' s leader to take that forward . if they can not , they will have to step aside at the next election and allow a new leadership to do so . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) on secure an Adjournment debate on this important subject , and on her powerful and heartfelt speech . I know that she , like all Labour Members here today , have a real interest in and passion for support family in her constituency who be navigate the special educational need and disability system , and all the challenge that clearly present . I thank everyone who have contribute to this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) for their intervention , and I thank my hon . friend the Members for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) and for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) for their powerful speech . hon . member have speak incredibly powerfully for their constituent , and they be very much hear . as hon . member recognise , improve the special educational need and disability system across the country be a priority for the Government . we want all child to receive the right support to succeed in their education , and to lead happy , healthy and productive adult life . every child , regardless of their individual need , deserve the opportunity to achieve , thrive and succeed . at the moment , we know far too many child be not be give that chance , and far too many family have be let down , year on year , by a system that be not meet those need . over 1 . 6 million child and young people in England have special educational need , a figure that be increase year on year , with more child require SEND support , and even more child and young people be identify as have a specific need that require an education , health and care plan . as the Education Secretary mention in her keynote speech at the Centre for Social Justice just last week , the recognition of those additional need and the debate around how we support child with SEND be a sign of progress , but clearly there be much more to do . one of the reason the county council have get into this mess be because it be around a decade since Ofsted ' s previous inspection of its SEND provision . when I approach Ofsted , official say the reason be that that be what Ofsted have be contract to do by the Government . we need more agile regulation , as we discuss on the second reading of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill today , but do the Minister have plan to look at Ofsted ' s regulatory model and the frequency with which it inspect ? if the provision in Derbyshire have be inspect early , we might have less of a problem to deal with now . my hon . friend raise an important point . we be look across the system at how to reform it to make it well for family and for child who experience the need for additional support , and to improve outcome . to assess all those issue , we need an inspection and accountability framework that drive improvement . I will come to the specific issue raise in the inspection of Derbyshire county council . it be inspect under a new inspection framework that throw significant light on the current situation , as exemplify by the various heartbreaking story hon . member have share today . improve the SEND system be a vital part of the Government ' s opportunity mission . we be determined to break the unfair link between background and opportunity by give every child with SEND , along with all other child , the good start in life . we be prioritise early intervention and inclusive provision in mainstream setting , as we know that early intervention prevent unmet need from escalate . that will support all child and young people to achieve their goal alongside their peer . we know it take a vast workforce , from teacher to teaching assistant , early year educator to ally health professional , to help all child to achieve and thrive . we be invest in each of those area to improve outcome and experience across the country . we be commit to work with the sector and our partner to ensure that our approach be fully plan and deliver in partnership . we have already begin the work by appoint a strategic adviser on SEND to engage with sector leader , practitioner , child and family . we have establish an expert advisory group for inclusion , to improve the mainstream education outcome and experience for those with SEND , and we have set up a neurodivergence task - and - finish group to provide a shared understanding of what provision and support in mainstream educational setting should look like for neurodivergent child and young people within an inclusive system . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley understandably raise concern about education health and care plan timeline . the plan have significantly increase in number , year on year , since their introduction in 2014 , with nearly 600 , 000 child and young people with an EHCP as of January last year . over time , flaw and a lack of capacity in the system to meet low - level need have add additional strain on specialist service , and that have have a detrimental impact on the experience of those access the EHCP process . there have be late identification of need and intervention , low parental confidence in the ability of mainstream setting to meet that need , inefficient allocation of resource across the system , and inconsistency in practice and provision base on location . hon . member have express the particular challenge in derbyshire that have clearly manifest over many year . those have all contribute to push up cost and have create an increasingly unsustainable system . the late datum show that in 2023 , just 50 . 3 % of ehcp be issue within the 20 - week statutory timeframe . that be leave young people and their family without appropriate and adequate support . the Government want to ensure that EHC need assessment be progress promptly and plan be issue so that child and young people get the support they need to help they achieve positive outcome . we know that local authority have be struggle to meet the increase demand for ehcp , so we be constantly work with they to improve those response time . the Government be acutely aware of the challenge that family face in access the support their child need — and actually , of how adversarial the EHCP process can be . independently commission insight that we publish last year show that if we can get those extensive improvement to the system , if we can use early intervention well and if we can well resource mainstream school , that will have a significant impact . More child will have their need meet without have to even go through an education , health and care plan process , because their need will be meet in a mainstream setting with their peer . we be listen to parent , local authority colleague and partner right across education and , as hon . member have rightly identify , across health and social care , because we need to work out how to address and improve the experience of the EHCP process for family , and reflect on how we can roll out practice that will be more consistent nationally . every child and young person should have access to high - quality service to set they up for life , for work and for the future , and local authority and their partner be key to ensure that child can access the support they need . Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission jointly inspect derbyshire in September 2024 and find widespread and systemic failing . that lead to significant concern about the experience and outcome of child and young people with SEND across the county of Derbyshire . the publish report make it clear that the local area partnership , which consist of the local authority and the integrated care board , must address those concern urgently and identify six area for priority action . as a result of the inspection , his Majesty ' s chief inspector require the local area partnership to prepare and submit a priority action plan to address the identify area . a team have be put in place to track those outcome against the action plan . progress be be monitor and the Department for Education have appoint a SEND adviser to work collaboratively with an NHS England adviser to challenge , support and work with Derbyshire county council and the integrated care board to drive those improvement . I be sure that that be good news for hon . member to hear , but clearly that progress need to be make as quickly as possible , because as hon . member rightly set out , family can not wait any long for the support they need . we absolutely want more child and young people to receive the support they need , and ideally to thrive in their local mainstream setting with their peer , so that they do not need to travel long distance to find specialist place that can accommodate they and they can have their need meet with their friend in their local school . we know that many mainstream setting already go above and beyond to deliver that specialist provision locally through resource provision and SEN unit , and we know as well that there will always be a place for special school and college for child and young people who have the most complex need . it be vital that we see the investment that be need to create the new place in mainstream and special school and in specialist setting . that be why we have announce £ 740 million of high need capital for 2025 - 26 . we will set out those allocation to local authority in due course . hon . member have raise concern about the underspend in Derbyshire county council and we really need to see that money invest in those specialist place , whether in mainstream or special school , to make sure that place be available with the support that child need . the Government be absolutely committed to work with Derbyshire county council , and with school leader and sector partner locally and nationally , to develop and improve the inclusive education within mainstream setting that every child deserve . I thank the Minister for speak so clearly on this important issue . on the intervention I make early about empty classroom , we be see in Nottinghamshire that there be not the demand for nursery place that there desperately be in other part of the country . do the Department have any appetite to think about how those space could be use to try to deal with the issue we be talk about today ? my hon . friend raise a really important point that manifest itself in many part of the country : we have a shift in demographic and , as he identify , early year place be open up more quickly in some part of the country than in other . that be why the Secretary of State announce the funding to create early year place in particular , but it be also why we have this capital funding that will be allocate to local authority so we can utilise all the available space to make sure that we can provide these specialist place . obviously we want local authority to be able to apply the funding in the way that will well meet the need in their local area . that might mean repurpose space to create a specialist unit within a mainstream school , create a more accessible space within a mainstream school or create specialist place in whatever way a school be able to . if a local authority be able to support they , that funding will be available to create those space . my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley for bring this debate forward . member here tonight be clearly very grateful for the opportunity to air their constituent ' concern and for this issue to be highlight , and it be absolutely right that it be , because SEND outcome in Derbyshire and nationally be an issue we all care passionately about . I acknowledge the challenge that far too many family face when seek to secure the right support for their child with special educational need and disability , and that the system absolutely need to improve , and we be determined to make progress and to make the change . I want to conclude , as always , by recognise all those who work in our education , health and care system in the interest of our child and young people with special educational need and disability , in Derbyshire and right across the country . we need to deliver the very good for all of our child and young people , include those with SEND . we need to give they the very good start in life , and prepare they for life , work and the future . I thank all who work to deliver that tirelessly day in , day out . despite the challenge set out tonight , I be confident that together , with determination , we can see that change . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Electronic Communications that the draft Online Safety Act 2023 ( category 1 , category 2A and Category 2B Threshold Conditions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 December 2024 , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin James McMurdock Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 178 . question accordingly agree to . Column 247 , Science , Innovation and Technology Questions there be a deal by WhatsApp that be never follow up by the Treasury or Ministers . there be no meeting between AstraZeneca and the Conservative Government . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 285 . ] ( Correction ) their Government let Britain down every time , which be why the country turn to Labour , and Labour be deliver . Column 285 , Point of Order Further to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . why detain the House ? why don ' t I just apologise now , and correct the record ? I be grateful to the hon . member for alert I to that information . I be happy to correct the record , and I be happy to apologise to he for say what I say early . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 247 . ] I should also correct the thrust of my argument this morning , which be that there be insouciance during the period between the March statement and the general election in July . actually , it be not insouciance ; it be just incompetence that mean they could not get the deal across the line .