business before Questions Committee of selection Ordered , that Stuart Anderson and Wendy Chamberlain be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Joy Morrissey and Tom Morrison be add . — ( Mark Tami . ) speaker ' s Statement before we come to oral question , the House will wish to take a moment to remember our former colleague Alex Salmond , who pass away at the weekend . he serve the people of Scotland for over 30 year as a Member of this House , a Member of the Scottish Parliament and , for two term , First Minister of Scotland . he be a tireless campaigner for scottish independence , secure the UK Government ' s agreement to the 2014 referendum and play a lead role in the yes campaign . his final departure from this House be in 2017 , which mark the first occasion in more than three decade that he be not serve in an elect role either here or in Holyrood . he leave a deep and lasting legacy behind he . his sudden death at the weekend come as a complete shock . the thought of this whole House will be with his family and friend at this difficult time . there will be a short time for tribute follow defence question . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Strategic Defence Review what progress he have make on the strategic defence review . when he plan to announce the outcome of the strategic defence review . the Prime Minister commission the strategic defence review within two week of take office . it will ensure that the UK be secure at home and strong abroad , both now and in year to come . the review be the first of its kind in the UK , and I be very grateful to Lord Robertson , General Sir Richard Barrons and Fiona Hill , our three external lead reviewer . they will make their final report to the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and I in the first half of 2025 . I will report the SCR to Parliament . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that answer . I be tell that all that three branch of the armed force still have a long backlog of new recruit try to get through medical assessment . what assurance can the Secretary of State give we that the strategic defence review will take account of that ? I have say that the strategic defence review will place people at its heart , and we will place people at the heart of our defence plan . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right ; we follow 14 year of the previous Government ' s recruitment target for all force be miss every year . we have a recruitment crisis and a retention crisis . no plan for the future can deal with that without sort out recruitment . may I wholly concur with your tribute to the late Alex Salmond , Mr Speaker ? a critical element of the strategic defence review will be the defence of our overseas territory . the Foreign Secretary tell the House last week that the deal with Mauritius over the Chagos island have be conclude . to save we wait until next year , will the Defence Secretary tell we today how much have we offer to pay Mauritius over 99 year for the privilege of our renting back a military facility that belong to we in first the place ? crucially , which Department will pay that bill : the Ministry of Defence or the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ? the Foreign Secretary say in his statement that full detail will be properly set out when the treaty come before the House . at that point , the House can scrutinise the deal and approve it or not . let I make it clear that we inherit a situation in which the long - stand UK - US military base be put at risk from problem to do with sovereignty and migration . we have make a historic deal that secure the UK - US base for the future , which be why my counterpart the US Defence Secretary so strongly welcome it when we reach it . I call the new Chair of the Defence Committee . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I fully concur with your tribute to the late Alex Salmond . in these particularly volatile time , I fully welcome the Government ' s strategic defence review . I for one hope it will include serious analysis of the Indo - Pacific region , because many of we be very concerned about China ' s recent launch of military drill around Taiwan . will the Secretary of State use this opportunity to condemn those highly aggressive and intimidatory manoeuvre ? what be the Government do to work with international ally to de - escalate tension ? I will indeed . my hon . friend will know that our party go into the election commit to build on commitment the previous Government make on the Indo - Pacific . I want the strategic defence review to be not just the Government ' s defence review , but Britain ' s defence review . we be consult military veteran , industry , academic expert and all party in this House . I trust that , like I , he will welcome that all - party approach , particularly as he now chair the Select Committee , and will work with we . the SDR be welcome and need . the previous Conservative Government leave our armed force personnel , capability and funding deplete . can the Secretary of State — [ interruption . ] hang fire . can the Secretary of State assure I that the expert conduct our review will have an ongoing focus on our sovereign defence industrial base , and ensure that region such as the north - east be pivotal in that ? they will indeed . this be the way we can reinforce the UK ' s security and economy . and yes , we can build , through the SDR , on the work that the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) do when he be Minister for defence procurement . like my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , I be really angry about the state of defence after the last government : there be billion - pound black hole in defence plan ; service morale be at record low ; and Army number be set to fall below 70 , 000 next year . we will work night and day to make our force more fit to fight , and to make Britain more secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . I associate all of we in my party with your comment about the late Alex Salmond . the most important point about the SDR be that it must not be use as an excuse to delay increase the defence budget to 2 . 5 % of gdp . in September , in answer to write question , the Department say that it would set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence " as soon as possible " , but last week , at the Dispatch Box , in his middle east statement , the Prime Minister say that the Government would go to 2 . 5 % " in due course " . we all know that there be a massive difference between the two , so which be it ? the Government be totally committed to spend 2 . 5 % on defence to meet the increase threat the country face . the Prime Minister confirm that in his first week in office , when he and I be together at the NATO summit in Washington . of course , the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % on defence be in 2010 under Labour , and that level be not match in any one of the 14 year in which the hon . Gentleman ' s party be in power . that be a concern . in 2010 , just to remind the House , the black hole in the defence budget be big than the defence budget , and we be leave a note say that there be no money leave . it be significant if the wording be no long " as soon as possible " and be now " in due course " . it be in the national interest to go to 2 . 5 % because of the threat we face as a country . if the Secretary of State tell we now that he be fight hard with the Treasury to go to 2 . 5 % in the Budget at the end of this month , he would have our full support . be that what he be do ? fourteen year , Mr Speaker , yet the Conservatives produce their unfunded plan for 2 . 5 % on defence only four week before they call the election . it be the hon . Gentleman ' s former boss , the Defence Secretary Ben Wallace , who tell the truth about their record in government when he say to the House : " we have hollow out and underfunde " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2023 ; Vol . 727 , c . 18 . ] our armed force since 2010 . Ukraine : Military Support what step he be take to increase military support to Ukraine . what step he be take to increase military support to Ukraine . this be day 963 of Russia ' s brutal , illegal , full - scale invasion of Ukraine . on my second day in this job , I travel to Odesa and meet President Zelensky , because Ukraine be one of my first - order priority , just as it be for the Government . since then , we have step up military aid , speed up the delivery of battlefield supply , and confirm that we will supply £ 3 billion a year in military aid to Ukraine this year , next year , and every year that it take for Ukraine to prevail . medics4ukraine , a UK - base humanitarian organisation , have deliver more than £ 3 million - worth of medical aid and training to Ukraine , and its founder , Professor Mark Hannaford and Lucia Altatti , be recently award medal for their contribution to that . the Government be commit to increase military aid ; do the Secretary of State agree that medical support be a strategic component , and will he meet the founder of medics4ukraine to discuss how the Government can far support its lifesave work ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I too pay tribute to the work of Medics4Ukraine . the UK ' s Defence Medical Services be also at the forefront of Ukraine ' s effort to develop a modern military healthcare system . we have provide training for battlefield surgical team , we have supply medical equipment , and , as a world leader in military rehabilitation , we be support the development of Ukraine ' s rehabilitation hospital . a member of our defence team will be delighted to meet my hon . friend and Medics4Ukraine to take this matter far . it be hugely welcome to see the Prime Minister host President Zelensky and welcome the new NATO Secretary - General to London last week . what step be my right hon . friend take not only to ensure that UK meet our NATO obligation , but to fundamentally strengthen UK leadership in NATO ? my hon . friend be right : that be the first priority . it will be the centrepiece of the Government ' s defence plan , and it be at the heart of the strategic defence review . when President Zelensky be in London last week , he make it clear that for Ukraine , this be a critical period in the war . the Ukrainians be fight with huge courage , but the Russians be put great pressure on their frontline . Putin show contempt for the life of his own soldier : the average russian loss in September be 1 , 271 per day , a record high and two and a half time the level this time last year . as Zelensky promote his victory plan , we in the UK and our ally must do all that we can to strengthen Ukraine during the come week . do the Secretary of State agree that the democratic world can not afford to lose this war , and do he recall that it be often say that the total defence expenditure of all Ukraine ' s democratic ally far exceed anything that Russia could possibly deploy , so Russia will inevitably lose ? when will we deploy this might to gain a decisive victory for Ukraine and secure the international global order ? the hon . Gentleman be right on both count . first , the defence of the UK and the rest of Europe start in Ukraine , and it be essential that we stand with Ukraine and support it for as long as it take . secondly , as he say — this be a matter that the Prime Minister and I discuss with the new Secretary - General of NATO , Mark Rutte , last week when he be in London — the ally together must do more to support Ukraine now , and to produce what it need in the future . the new Secretary - General will make that one of his priority . thank you for your kind comment about our late right hon . friend Alex Salmond , Mr Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for his contribution . he will be aware of the failure of analysis at the start of the full - scale invasion . will he consider the report by Phillips o ' Brien and Eliot Cohen of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies that look at some of those failure , so that he be inform for the next process , in term of support for Ukraine and building support internationally ? I will indeed . if the hon . Gentleman could be so kind as to send I the executive summary , rather than the full report , I will certainly take a look at it . russia : Armed Forces what recent estimate his Department have make of the percentage of Russia ' s gross domestic product spend on its armed force in each year since the invasion of Ukraine . Russia ' s declare total military expenditure be around 4 . 7 % of gdp in 2022 . in 2023 it be 5 . 9 % of gdp , and the forecast spending this year be up to around 7 % of gdp . as the right hon . Gentleman know very well , the public figure almost certainly do not tell the full story about russian expenditure . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for put that on the record . do that frightening set of figure not show the scale of the problem and the weight of attack that Russia can bring to bear against Ukraine ? how be we do with the double demand on our resource — the need to both supply Ukraine with hardware and ammunition , and replenish our stock of hardware and ammunition in order to fulfil our NATO security requirement ? the right hon . Gentleman describe the double challenge of continue to support Ukraine and replenish our stockpile , particularly of the weapon , ammunition and system that we have gift to Ukraine . the Government already have £ 1 billion - worth of contract for replenish UK stockpile across a range of system , and I can tell he that around 60 % of the contract production will be in the UK . that be the way we strengthen Britain ' s security for the future , but also strengthen Britain ' s economic growth and prosperity . I thank the Secretary of State for the work he be do to support Ukraine . it be very important that we have a united front , and that we be there for the long term to support Ukraine , as we have already hear this morning . what be his view about the determination of our ally to see this conflict through right to the end ? I feel more confident in this job than I do when I be in my previous job . I recently attend the US - lead gathering of almost 50 country in Ramstein , where they make a long - term commitment to support Ukraine now and into the future . that give I confidence that , with work , we can play a lead role in help that coalition to hold together , and in get NATO to do more to co - ordinate action and ensure that we get support behind Ukraine , so that it prevail and Putin lose . AUKUS Strategic Partnership what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of progress on the AUKUS strategic partnership . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of progress on the AUKUS strategic partnership . the UK be fully commit to the AUKUS partnership . on 26 September , the Secretary of State host the first AUKUS Defence Ministers ' meeting outside the US . during that discussion , he provide direction and guidance to accelerate our taking advantage of the opportunity that this landmark partnership present to we . I refer member to the Defence Ministers ' meet joint communication for more detail on progress . the Secretary of State already know how proud we be in Barrow and Furness to be build our Astute and dreadnought submarine , and to be part of the AUKUS programme . I know from our discussion that this Government understand that we need a cross - departmental approach to support the delivery of the AUKUS deal in Barrow and Furness . will he comment on the importance of that broad approach , which aim to make Barrow an even well place in which to live , work and raise a family , and will he meet I to discuss that far ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . both the Secretary of State and I have visit Barrow to see not only the incredible innovation in the shipyard there , but the amazing workforce who be put together the nuclear submarine . as my hon . friend know , the Government be indeed work across Departments , and with the local council and BAE Systems , to invest heavily not only in the development of the shipyard and the submarine facility , but in the community that they need . I would be very happy to meet she and colleague to discuss this issue far . the most recent AUKUS Defence Ministers communiqu é outline an investment in industrial capacity , include £ 7 billion from this Government , and the Royal United Services Institute have say that the winner in any prolonged war will be the country with the most secure industrial base . will the Minister expand on his answer to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and describe how this investment in our defence capability will strengthen supply chain in place such as Billingham in my constituency ? it be certainly true that army march on their stomach , and in the event of a large conflict , it will be the strength of our industrial base that determine the victor . that be why we be work together with industry to deliver a new defence industrial strategy , in particular to strengthen our resilience and innovation and to harness expertise , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I would be happy to meet he to discuss how we can make the most of those opportunity . the Minister will know that our AUKUS partner , the United States and Australia , have recently hold bilateral discussion with South Korea , Japan , New Zealand and Canada about become part of the so - call pillar 2 of AUKUS , and I wonder what bilateral discussion the UK have have on this . there be an opportunity to work with many of our partner internationally on pillar 2 opportunity . those conversation have be take place at official level within the Ministry of Defence and at political level , and we be continue to work to bring those forward because if we want to buy the high - end war - win kit that we need , the good way of do that be to work with our partner to ensure not only that we have it but that our ally be able to make the most of it as well . in the light of the increase geopolitical threat that we face , can the Minister give an update on the adequacy and resilience of the computer chip supply chain that back up the UK military ? the hon . member be right to highlight the fragility of the international supply chain in that area . it be very important that government in the west , and in the NATO alliance in particular , be able to onshore production and to " friendly - shore " production — no matter how awkward that term be — to ensure that we be less expose to threat . colleague in the Department for Business and Trade , as well as MOD colleague , be look into that . More work be need in this area , but we be act on it . LGBT veteran what progress he have make on implement the recommendation of the LGBT veteran independent review . if you will allow I to say so , Mr Speaker , it be with great pride that I stand behind this Dispatch Box for the first time , after 24 year of service , to represent veteran , serve personnel and their family and dependant . be under no illusion : it be now my duty to serve they here in Government and to fight for the deal that they deserve . I be serve when the ban be lift in 2000 by a Labour Government . the treatment of LGBT veteran be completely and utterly unacceptable . the treatment of LGBT veteran have be deal with by the Etherton review , which we will see out at the end of the year . we have meet 32 of the 49 recommendation and we will meet those on the financial redress scheme by the end of this year , with a launch in January next year . LGBT veteran have suffer appal injustice and ingratitude , include many in my Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven constituency . I welcome the update from the Minister , but he will know that it be recommendation 28 on financial redress and compensation that be cause concern among veteran . because the report cap compensation at £ 50 million , the average payment per veteran might be as low as £ 12 , 500 . the then Prime Minister , now the Leader of the Opposition , rightly tell the House that the ban be " an appalling failure of the british state " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 897 . ] will the Minister meet I and fight with Pride to discuss how we can take this forward to get fair and swift compensation ? I know that a significant number of my hon . friend ' s constituent be affect by this completely unacceptable and highly regrettable policy . I meet fight with Pride and Lord Etherton just last week . I will meet they again and I will meet my hon . friend to talk through the detail . I can confirm that Defence be work with expert across Government to establish an appropriate financial redress scheme . that scheme will launch this year and I will update the House in due course . UK Defences what step he be take to help secure the future of the UK ' s defence . what step he be take to help secure the future of the UK ' s defence . the strategic defence review will consider all aspect of defence so that the United Kingdom be both secure at home and strong abroad . it will ensure that defence be central to both the security and the economic growth and prosperity of our homeland . the SDR will set out a deliverable and affordable plan within the trajectory of spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . the Department ' s future capability innovation programme accelerate innovation in operational capability . give its success in deliver rapidly prototype drone to Ukraine , and in grow the UK drone sector as part of the process , how will the Minister make sure that the lesson learn from the programme be adopt across defence procurement , especially in area such as cyber - security and artificial intelligence , to ensure that innovation be rapidly operationalise and that a high proportion of the work go to british small and medium - sized enterprise ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question and for champion the country ' s tech sector . she be absolutely right that the experience we be see in Ukraine mean that we need to innovate fast , have more spiral development and bring more talent into these sector . we have a good record of do so , not just on drone but on AI and direct energy system , where we have our own capability . we be now work with NATO , five Eyes and AUKUS partner to ensure that we learn from that and to make sure that it be not just our big defence prime but the entire supply chain , include small business and start - up , that benefit . it be a huge pleasure to welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to the nepalese community centre in Burnt Oak this summer to talk to Gurkha veteran about the issue they face . do the Minister agree that the Gurkha Regiment have an important role to play in the future of the UK ' s defence ? will he outline what step the Ministry of Defence be take to address the failure of the previous Government in support Gurkha veteran , and will he meet I to discuss these issue ? the Government greatly value the contribution that the Gurkhas continue to make in support the UK ' s security and defence , and we take our responsibility to Gurkha veteran very seriously . the Government remain committed to support they and their family during and after their service with the British Army . the Minister for Veterans and People be shortly to meet the ambassador of Nepal and Gurkha veteran representative to continue that work . as the Minister will know , the Royal Fleet Auxiliary industrial dispute be put our national security at risk . do he think it be a betrayal of our defence that Labour put generous settlement for their rail paymaster over the small number of seafarer who keep we safe ? I think the hon . Gentleman can do well than that , to be honest . it be important that we support not only those who serve in all our force , but those in the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . discussion be ongoing to try to resolve the industrial action that start under the last government , and I want to thank all those who serve in the Royal Navy , in the Royal Fleet Auxiliary and in civilian role . it be the whole team that matter , and they all matter to this Government . many of my constituent work in the defence sector , with RNAS Yeovilton base in Glastonbury and Somerton , Thales operate from Templecombe , and Leonardo base nearby . however , the " deliver the Defence Workforce of the Future " report reveal that 77 % of key decision maker and influencer in the sector believe that a shortage of science , technology , engineering and math skill will deteriorate the UK ' s defence capability . what step will the Minister take to address this shortage and to secure the UK ' s defence ? I be grateful for the contribution of south - west defence company to our national defence . as a south - west MP , I know it be important . if we be to have sustainable defence , we need not only our armed force but our supply chain to invest in skill on a sustainable , long - term basis . short - term contract do not contribute to that , which be one of the reason why , as part of our defence industrial strategy and the strategic defence review , we be look long term at how to make sure we have the skill we need for both those who serve and those who support those who serve . there be a lot of work to do in this area . I call the shadow Minister . as a rifleman , I know the importance of training for military operation ; it ensure readiness , lethality and survivability . in addition to the recent announcement that there be no firm timeline for spending 2 . 5 % of gdp , possible cut to the training budget have be mention . will the Minister confirm that there will be no cut to the training budget in either this financial year or the next ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place ; it be a great job be shadow Minister for the Armed Forces , as I know . if I may say so politely , the reason there be severe financial pressure on we be that this Government be leave with a £ 22 billion financial black hole by his party . let I be clear : support our armed force to train to be the good , to deter aggression and to defeat it if necessary be a priority for this Government . despite the economic circumstance his party pass on to mine , we be take step to ensure that our armed force have what they need . veteran : support what step he be take to support veteran . this be a Government of service that will always stand up for those who serve our country . that be why the Prime Minister focus on the debt we owe our veteran in his first conference speech as Prime Minister . as a veteran myself , I stand steadfast in my commitment to deliver improved service for veteran , work closely across Government and with the devolved government . the Lord Kitchener Memorial Holiday Centre be an extraordinary charity in my constituency , set up more than 100 year ago after the great war to provide convalescence for return soldier . today it provide much - need short stay for veteran and their family across the country , as well as a drop - in and information centre for veteran locally , but sadly its funding situation be precarious . do the Minister agree that invest in our locally value veteran ’ charity be essential if we be to provide the good support for our brave service personnel ? I thank my hon . friend for an important statement and question , and I thank the Lord Kitchener Memorial Holiday Centre for all the work it have do in support veteran for over a century now — it be truly deserving of applause . I would be happy to visit the centre with she to see the brilliant work that it do . the Government be look at the good way to deliver collaboratively across the charitable sector , which include more than 1 , 000 charity , to deliver the good support for veteran and deliver the deal they deserve . during his Labour conference speech , the Prime Minister make one of his key announcement : " we will repay those who serve we and house all veteran in housing need . home will be there for hero . " hear , hear ! wait for it . last week , the Government confirm that that would actually be do by exempt veteran from local connection and residency test , rather than by make dedicated housing available . give that it be a key conference pledge , what guarantee be the Government able to offer veteran that home really will be there for they ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , Op Fortitude be run and we have have more than 2 , 000 referral so far , with 700 veteran put into housing . we will continue to extend the programme to ensure that every veteran have a home in due course . I call the shadow Minister . this weekend mark 40 year since one of the most appalling and audacious terrorist attack on british soil , the attack on the Conservative party conference in Brighton in 1984 . five people die in the bombing . if you will forgive I , Mr Speaker , they be the Member of Parliament for Enfield , Southgate , Anthony Berry ; Lady Jeanne Shattock ; Muriel Maclean of the scottish Conservatives ; Eric Taylor ; and Roberta Wakeham . all be remember . thirty - one people be also injure and some never recover . the peace that we enjoy today in Northern Ireland and across these island be hard - win over many decade , but hard - win also be the protection afford to our veteran , who serve our country through the trouble and have since be plague by ambulance - chase lawyer with vexatious claim . that protection be achieve through the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , but there be concern within the veteran community that the new Government ' s propose repealing and replacement of that Act will put those man and woman , many of whom be now well into retirement , at risk . can the hon . and gallant Gentleman assure I , and they , that they will be protect and that those who serve our country with distinction and valour over so many year will never be at the mercy of those seek to distort their service or to damage their life and reputation ? I thank the hon . and gallant Gentleman for his comment . our Government recognise the important service of veteran and serve personnel and the sacrifice they make to keep we all safe in Northern Ireland during the trouble . I do not serve during the trouble , but I do serve in Northern Ireland and I understand they . he have my absolute commitment that any individual who need to go through legal proceeding will get the correct welfare and legal support . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with his international counterpart on support for Ukraine . what recent discussion he have have with his international counterpart on support for Ukraine . what recent discussion he have have with his international counterpart on support for Ukraine . I regularly discuss how good to support Ukraine with international partner . last week , I meet my ukrainian counterpart and the new Secretary - General of NATO in London . last month at the Ukraine defence contact group in Ramstein , I meet nearly 50 other Defence Ministers who come together to commit to continued support of Ukraine , both in the immediate fight and for the long term . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . our military support need to be part of wide diplomatic and economic support . there be grow concern about loophole that allow russian oil export to a third - party country to be develop into other petroleum product and then to be import into the UK and other country that have impose sanction on Russia . can the Secretary of State tell I what work he and his counterpart be do to crack down on that loophole and to stop inadvertently fund the russian war effort ? my hon . friend be right : alongside military aid , economic support and diplomatic help be require to support Ukraine and put pressure on Russia . the UK have ban the import of russian oil and oil product , in line with the step take by the US and the European Union . importer must now include proof of origin and country of last dispatch as a way of tighten up on the loophole , and we will not hesitate to take further action if russian revenue , which fuel the war machine , be not close off by the sanction . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . on a recent visit to Ukraine , I visit the Chernihiv oblast , which be a former russian red line . there , we see a large military effort by community and local government . give that large segment of the military in Ukraine be make up differently from our own Ministry of Defence , what discussion be the Secretary of State have to ensure fund be go into community and local government effort ? like my hon . friend , I have be privileged to see some of those community effort and local mayor - lead initiative when I have visit Ukraine . part of the work that the Government have put in place since 2022 — I be proud of the UK ' s leadership on Ukraine over that period — have be to commit £ 38 million to the Ukraine good governance fund . that have allow community to draw down some of that funding and the Ukrainian Government to take step to deal with some of the corruption that have be endemic since the soviet period . that be an extraordinary feat , give that they be fight a war and deal with corruption in their system at the same time . with winter loom , defend the home front in Ukraine be paramount . however , Russia have intensify its attack on energy infrastructure in Ukraine , include substation , where it have deploy cluster munition . that be particularly alarming . give those development , what additional support can the UK give through de - mining equipment to get rid of those munition from the ground ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be vital to remember that these be not military target ; they be civilian target . these be russian action that breach international humanitarian law and we must never lose sight of the moral outrage about what the Russians be do . clearly , with the onset of winter , there be a vital imperative for Britain and other country to step up support as we can . since the election , we have be offer specialist advice on how to protect energy generation and transmission site , and the Foreign Secretary , when he be in Ukraine last month , commit another £ 20 million to support emergency energy need . in the shell crisis of 1915 , the Government of the day and industry come together to support our troop on the western front . we be hear much about new contract be place for thing such as ordnance , which be critical to the defence of Ukraine and to replenish our own stock . do the Secretary of State share my concern that senior figure in the Scottish Government seem reluctant to put money into those defence company , except for civilian use ? can he explain how Scotland can play its full part since it provide so much of the ordnance , with everything from storm Shadow to type 26 destroyer build in Scotland ? the hon . Member and I share common cause in recognise the role that scottish worker and scottish industry play not just in the security of our own United Kingdom , but through the contribution we make to support Ukraine in its fight . I have be proud to visit worker in some of the scottish site . our defence industrial strategy , as we develop it in the month ahead , will reinforce the essential role that Scotland play in our security , and in the UK economy . last week , President Zelensky of Ukraine meet with german Chancellor Scholz . Zelensky say : " for we , it be very important that aid do not decrease next year . " it be welcome that the Foreign Secretary will meet with EU27 Ministers later to discuss the war in Ukraine , but will the EU27 plus the UK be in a position to assure Zelensky that military aid to Ukraine will not decrease next year , regardless of what happen in the presidential election next month ? yes , they will . I thank the Defence Secretary for that response . when I look at Israel ' s capacity to defend its citizen and its property with its dome system , it be clear to I that Ukraine need something similar . have he have an opportunity to talk to his NATO compatriot , and with the USA in particular , to see whether it be possible to offer Ukraine some of the protection that Israel have ? the hon . Gentleman be right that one of the priority that the ukrainian President and Defence Minister have constantly stress to we and other ally be the need for strong air defence . it be one of the reason we have now let a contract for short - range air defence missile : the lightweight multirole missile . we will produce 650 of those — some of they deliver into Ukraine before the end of the year — and we look to go far in 2025 . Global Combat Air Programme what progress he have make on deliver the global combat air programme . I think you be mean to stand up when you ask a question formally . he ' s new ! he ' s far too grand for it ! let I be absolutely clear that GCAP be an important programme , as the Prime Minister have state . that be why the Defence Secretary host his japanese and italian counterpart within week of take office . progress continue , alongside the strategic defence review , with more than 3 , 500 people employ on future combat air . I apologise if I be hypnotise by your gaze , Mr Speaker . I worry about the Government ' s grip on strategy all together . first , they have give away the Chagos island before the strategic defence review . now they be put at risk the global combat air programme by include it within the SDR . be the Minister aware of the extreme effort that our partner in Italy and Japan , visit by the Defence Committee in the last Parliament , have make to discharge their side of the bargain — in Japan ' s case for the first time since the second world war in international procurement outside the USA ? what measure be he take to reassure they about the centrality and importance of the programme ? the Defence Secretary have clear instruction from the manifesto that Britain be to be well defend with a Labour Government . that be why within two week of take office the Prime Minister have commission Lord Robertson to conduct the strategic defence review . the Prime Minister , the Defence Secretary and I have all make it clear that GCAP be an important programme . not only do we have an amazing workforce work on it but I be pleased to tell the House that last month the UK ratify the GCAP convention , the international treaty that set up the GCAP International Government Organisation . we will continue to make progress . GCAP will contribute £ 37 billion to the economy , but the Minister will know that the SDR be under review have lead to a number of story appear in the press that the programme be about to cancel . as someone who once represent General Dynamics , which build Ajax , I know that a belief that something will not happen tend to cause problem within the local and national economy . as the SDR go ahead , will the Minister ensure that this House and the press will be keep up to date on how GCAP be develop ? GCAP be an important programme , and there will be far update in relation to it as the SDR report in the first half of next year . in the meantime , we continue to progress the project ; indeed , work be continue across a range of necessary and important defence project , because we do not want the SDR to be an excuse to slow down progress . at a time when our troop and ally be operate in difficult and contested environment , we need to ensure that we invest in the kit that we need . that be what the SDR will set out : the future shape of the UK armed force . Defence Research and Development : fund what plan he have for future level of spending on defence research and development . Defence R & D be critical to maximise the operational advantage of our armed force . in an increasingly volatile and technology - drive world , the Department remain committed to invest in cut - edge science , technology and innovation . just after my appointment to the Department , I be delighted to visit the commando training centre in the hon . member ' s constituency to see the innovative training and capability of the future commando force . frontier technology such as artificial intelligence be already shape every domain across the modern battlefield . to stay ahead of our adversary and keep our service personnel and ally safe , it be imperative that we have the domestic ability to develop these technology . as supercompute be essential for the development of advanced AI system , it be disappointing to see the Labour Government pull the plug on the University of Edinburgh ' s £ 800 million exascale supercomputing project . from listen to the Secretary of State and his team , I know that they understand the need to invest in AI for defence , so will the Minister please inform the House how the Department intend to create these technology when his party ' s demand signal to academia and industry appear to be waver ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman to the House . as a fellow Devon MP , I believe it be important that we have a strong voice on defence , so I be grateful for his question . the new Government have be very clear that we see AI play a really important role not just in defence , but across a whole range of technology . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be lead on much of that work in his Department . AI and relate technology be be look at in relation to the strategic defence review , where we need not only to upscale the innovative work that be already be do by UK technology , but to provide the skill and the supply chain to ensure that we can continue to deliver , learn the lesson from what we be see in Ukraine , in particular . minister repeatedly state their commitment to reach a spending level of 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but they simply will not tell the House when they will do so . it be no surprise that we be already hear report of potential cut to programme in defence R & D . will the Minister simply rule out cut to defence R & D and science spending in this financial year and the next ? as a government , we be committed to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we have set out clearly that that will be announce at a future fiscal event . I must say that I be a wee bit disappointed , because I would have expect the Opposition Front Benchers to stand up and apologise for the mess that they have leave not just the armed force , but the wide economy . the Government be commit to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we be commit to invest in our armed force , and we will continue to do so . may I concur with your comment about the late Alex Salmond , Mr Speaker ? the exchange of research and development between Ukraine and the UK be vital to improve the security of both country . what step be the Department take to learn from the innovative technology from the battlefield to develop share collaborative capability ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on her appointment as a shadow spokesperson . I be in Ukraine a few week ago lead a trade delegation of british company look at precisely the issue of how we can learn from the battlefield experience of Ukraine , make sure that for the new technology need there , we can invest in the supply chain — not only in the UK , but in Ukraine — to make it more resilient . a lot of work be ongoing in this area , but we will need to do more . if we be to defeat Putin ' s illegal invasion , we will need not only to restock our own supply chain , but to accelerate the provision of innovative tech to Ukraine . that be what this Government be commit to do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the middle east continue to be a major focus for the Government . last week , we pass one year since the horrify Hamas terror attack on Israel . we mark the memory of those who be murder , we grieve with the family of the hostage who be still hold , and we share the agony of so many Palestinians over the civilian who have be kill since . we be work on an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . in Lebanon we be work to reduce the risk of further escalation , and a ceasefire and the UN plan for a buffer zone be vital to that . in addition , last week I visit british troop in Cyprus , where contingency plan be in place to deal with further development . on behalf of the House , I thank they for their professionalism and their dedication . can my right hon . friend outline what step the Government be take to ensure that every veteran who have bravely serve this country have access to safe and secure housing , so that they never face the injustice of homelessness ? as I mention before , Op FORTITUDE be up and run . it be do exceptionally well , with over 2 , 000 referral and 700 veteran find housing , and we will work to continue that programme for the foreseeable future . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thousand of child of armed force personnel face unaffordable increase to their school fee because of this Government ' s ideological decision to charge vat on education . that could have the perverse effect of force experienced personnel to quit the service of their country just when we should be seek to maximise retention . will the Minister therefore confirm that child of armed force family will be exempt from the new vat rise , and furthermore that that exemption will apply from January when the new tax kick in ? we recognise the extraordinary strain that be sometimes place on the family of armed force personnel , include their child . that be why the continuity of education allowance — an important part of the package that reflect and respect the service — be in place , and it be why we be look very closely at option to ensure we continue with that . early this month , a Royal Navy investigation find intolerable misogyny in the submarine service , follow complaint of bullying and sexual harassment . Forward Assist , a charity base in my constituency that support survivor , have do research and a number of report into the prevalence and impact of military sexual trauma . will the Secretary of State meet I and that charity to discuss its finding , and how we can support serve personnel and veteran ? I would love to visit that charity with my hon . friend in due course . any report of misogyny or wrongdoing in any way be utterly unacceptable . that be why since enter government we have start a programme of raise our standard with a plan to enact cultural change across defence , with the aim of make defence the good place to work across Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this year , british military jet have be involve in several operation in the middle east without consult Parliament . allow the Commons to debate military action wherever feasible be essential to ensure public accountability . will the Secretary of State set out the Government ' s stance on the use of a parliamentary vote to approve military action ? it be a convention that if military action be authorise by the Prime Minister , that be report as soon as possible to this House . it be important to any Prime Minister and any Government that if they commit UK force to military action , they will want the support of all side of this House . under an agreement inherit from the last government , a system remain in place allow for the licensing of trail hunting on land own by the Defence Infrastructure Organisation . it be welcome news that that licence issue have be pause while the agreement be under ministerial review , but in the light of the widespread recognition that trail hunting be often a smokescreen for illegal hunting , will the Minister meet I and other concerned mp to discuss the permanent revocation of that agreement , in line with the Government ' s manifesto ban on trail hunting ? I be grateful to my hon . friend — she and I have campaign on many similar issue for quite some time . I would like to make it clear that no licence to trail hunt on Ministry of Defence land have be grant for the 2024 - 25 hunting season . the Department be consider its position alongside other Government Departments , and we hope to have an update soon , but I be very happy to meet my hon . friend in the meantime . many member of the armed force in my constituency be live in sub - par MOD housing that be cold , damp and mould - ridden . how be the Minister ensure that all MOD property be fit to live in ? I have be utterly shock by the state of part of the housing estate that we have inherit . over the last 14 year , the Government of the time fail to decisively close with this issue , instead kick the can down the road or continually top up the leak bucket . we have example of family live in accommodation with no run water , with mould and with p infestation ; there be 53 , 000 complaint between 2018 and 2023 . have live in some of that accommodation , I can tell the House that it be unacceptable . our armed force protect the freedom we enjoy , and this Government will take action — include a medium to long - term review — to get after the housing and create a new armed force commissioner to improve service life . I be immensely proud of the armed force , both those serve and veteran , who live in my constituency , but I do worry for the future give the recruitment crisis that we inherit from the previous Government . what step be this Government take to tackle the recruitment crisis , in particular to attract diverse skill such as in cyber ? I be grateful for the question , because we know that there be a recruitment and retention crisis in the UK armed force . it be precisely for that reason that the Defence Secretary set out at the Labour party conference a series of change , include scrap 100 outdated recruitment policy and create a new direct entry route for cyber . there be a lot more work to be do in this area , and the Department will be make further announcement in due course . the 2 , 000 lb bomb drop on innocent civilian in Gaza and Lebanon lead to the heinous and unimaginable scene we see over the weekend of newborn baby be kill and young child be burn alive . these bomb be be drop by F - 35 fighter jet , and we supply part for F - 35 fighter jet . when will we stop do that and adhere to international convention ? we have make decision on the suspension of arm sale to Israel , and we have set out the detail of those to the House . we be work , as well as call , for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza so that all hostage can get out , all the aid need by the Palestinians can be flood in , and the first step can be take towards the political solution that be ultimately the good guarantor of two state and a permanent peace in the area . our first duty as a Government be to keep the nation safe and to protect our citizen , particularly when we be go through a period of global strife and instability , with war in Europe and conflict in the middle east . although I be aware of our unshakeable commitment to NATO , will my right hon . friend please reassure the House that , when it come to defence , our relationship with our european ally have not be adversely affect by Brexit ? it be the previous Government who have to answer for the impact of Brexit . as a new government , we have set out to rebuild relation with key european ally , especially on defence and security . although NATO remain the cornerstone of our european security , there be an important role for the European Union . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have start discussion with the European Union , as indeed have the Prime Minister , on how we can achieve a great level of co - operation between the EU and the UK . I commend the new Veterans Minister for the contact he have already have with the chairman of the War Widows Association , who be with we today in the Special Gallery . may I request a meeting with he , she and I to try to resolve the situation for the last 49 war widow who have so far be exclude from the payment scheme that we manage to work out for those who unfairly lose their pension on remarriage ? I thank the right hon . member for bring that up . give the amount of his experience , I would love to sit down with he and the chair of the War Widows Association to talk this through in more detail . in May , I be privileged to join a group call Help99 in drive some pick - up truck and other military vehicle to Kyiv for the use of ukrainian soldier on the frontline . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can make it easy for such group to deliver vehicle , which be so desperately need ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend and parliamentary colleague in all party for the work they be do in their constituency to support our friend in Ukraine . I would be very happy to meet he to see what we can do to support their work far , because we will support Ukraine for as long as it take . I call the Father of the House . in the run - up to the second world war , during an era of increase international tension , the Government open up many new RAF airfield , in what be call the expansion programme . one of those airfield be RAF Scampton . now that we be no long to have illegal migrant there , this matter be sit in the Home Office ' s in - tray : will the MOD work with the Home Office to ensure that we keep the runway open for future use ? it be one of the good , long runway in Europe . who know — RAF Scampton might be not just part of the history of the RAF , with the Dambusters and the Red Arrows , but part of the future of the RAF and save we once again . we will indeed work with the Home Office on the future of RAF Scampton . I concur with the comment regard the late Alex Salmond . my constituent Hannah be refuse entry into the RAF due to a prior anterior cruciate ligament injury , which be now fully repair , recover and rehabilitate . will my hon . friend review his Department ' s policy on the rehabilitation both of armed force personnel and applicant grade as medically unfit ? in August , medical standard include on ACL injury be change . decision will be make on a case - by - case basis , but I would like to discuss it in more detail in person in due course . do the Secretary of State share my incredulity that he have not be tell the cost of lease the facility in the Chagos ? I do not think the right hon . Gentleman hear I ; I say early that the Foreign Secretary have say the other day that the detail of the cost and the agreement will be set out properly before this House when it come to consider and debate the treaty . devonport dockyard in Plymouth be where the UK repair and maintain our submarine fleet . in future , there will be even more submarine , and we will need even more infrastructure for that upkeep , so what conversation be the Secretary of State have with the Secretaries of State responsible for housing and transport to deliver that infrastructure to support our increase submarine programme ? I pay tribute to the previous Government when they put in place Team Barrow , in recognition of the fact that the future of its shipyard and submarine building programme be not just a matter for the Ministry of Defence . I would say the same thing to my hon . friend , and I would be pleased to meet he to discuss it far . in light of the late Hezbollah attack on Israel , will the Secretary of State assure the House that we will continue to supply defensive equipment to Israel to help it defend itself against iranian proxy ? we have an unshakeable commitment to the right of Israel to defend itself and we have demonstrate in the past a willingness to stand with Israel , particularly when it have be under direct under attack from Iran . we now come to point of order before the urgent question . I will deal with they in a slightly different way from normal . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . point of Order 3 . 38 pm on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in the wee hour of 9 June 2017 , I watch on as the most talented , formidable and consequential politician of his generation — a man who have represent the people of Banff and Buchan , Aberdeenshire East and Gordon ; a man who have serve for two term as the First Minister of Scotland — lose his parliamentary seat for the first time in 30 year . it be a moment I will never forget , not because of the nature of his defeat but for what happen next , because within just a few moment , Alex Salmond take to the podium and give a speech that , despite all the despair that those of we in the SNP feel in the room that night , make we feel 10 foot tall . he give we back the hope that thing would get well , and would get well quickly . Rabbie Burns once write : " the heart ay ' s the part ay that make we right or wrang . " Alex give all of we in the SNP the belief that what we feel in our heart be worth fight for — the belief that we could one day become an independent nation . Alex Salmond take we so very close to make that belief a reality . at this time of profound shock and sorrow , I send my heartfelt personal condolence to Alex ' s wife Moira , his wide family , his friend and his legion of fan across the nationalist movement and within the Alba party itself . it be of great personal sorrow to I that Alex Salmond will not live to see Scotland become an independent nation . the challenge for all of we now in the nationalist movement be to make sure that we put good his legacy and deliver the future he so badly fight for throughout his distinguished parliamentary career . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I know that colleague from across the House will join I today in express our shock and sadness at the sudden passing of the right honourable Alex Salmond . he be a Member of this House for 25 year and of the Scottish Parliament for 11 year , and he be of course First Minister of Scotland for seven year . his impact wherever he serve be profound . my thought and sympathy be first and foremost with his family and friend , and especially his wife Moira , who have already be mention . member might not be aware that the Scotland Office bring Moira and Alex together ; they meet first as colleague in that Department before marry in 1981 . my thought be also with those whose relationship with he have break down in recent year and those who be find this time difficult as they deal with a range of emotion . it be no secret that some of his happy period as a politician be spend in this place , where he make alliance that may to some have seem surprising . my thought today be particularly with the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( Sir David Davis ) , who I know have lose a close friend , and with Alex ' s SNP colleague . in the short period during which our career in this place overlap , I be always impressed with Alex ' s formidable oratory and debate style . no member from any part of this House be give an easy ride . he sit on the third Bench — where the leader of the SNP , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , be today — during the passage of the Scotland Act 2016 , chuntere and banter in my ear every time I stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box . his love of lively discussion extend beyond this Chamber , and I be always keen to keep the topic on our share passion for Heart of midlothian football club , rather than constitutional matter . it be impossible to overstate the impact that Alex have on Scotland and our politic . after half a century of involvement , from student activist to First Minister , whether you agree or disagree with his political objective , there be no deny the rigour and commitment with which he pursue his goal . that commitment see Alex lead the Scottish National party for a total of 20 year , take it from a small political movement to the party of government in Scotland . in do so , he secure a referendum on scottish independence in 2014 , an achievement that would surely have be scarcely believable for a student activist who join the SNP in the early 1970 , and perhaps even for the Alex Salmond who first lead the party in the early 1990 . as someone firmly on the opposite side of that debate , I know that the result of the referendum be a source of huge disappointment to Alex . it be testament to his conviction in the cause that he continue to campaign for scottish independence with the same passion in Parliament , in the SNP , in the Alba party and in community across Scotland throughout the past decade . he have leave an indelible mark on scottish politic and public life . I know that many in the independence movement and beyond will miss he . I once again send the deep sympathy on behalf of the UK Government to all his family and friend at this difficult time . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Opposition , I would also like to pay my tribute to the right honourable Alex Salmond . as other have say , despite political difference , we be all shock and sadden to hear the news on Saturday of Alex Salmond ' s sudden passing . he and I be both elect to the Scottish Parliament in 2007 , and although we disagree on many of the big issue of the day , not least the question of independence for Scotland , we all respect his dedication to public service as a Member of the Scottish Parliament , as a Member of Parliament and as First Minister of Scotland . he be passionate , formidable , impressive and hugely charismatic . Alex Salmond be undoubtedly a giant in Scottish and United Kingdom politic . my sincere sympathy go to his wife Moira and to his wide family , in particular his sister Gail , who live in Hawick in my constituency in the Scottish Borders . my thought and prayer be with they all . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . Alex Salmond be not just a parliamentary colleague of mine ; for a number of year , when we live in Aberdeenshire , he be also my own Member of Parliament . I confess that I never actually vote for he , but that do allow I to see , and hear from all those who deal with he in the north - east of Scotland , that he be genuinely a byword for energy and commitment in represent the interest of his Banff and Buchan constituent . it be not until I be elect here in 2001 that I get to know Alex personally . he and I both represent constituency heavily dependent on the fishing industry , which be then face an existential crisis , as cod stock in the North sea collapse . at that time , we all have to be expert in the spawn stock biomass of North sea cod , and Alex , with his natural head for figure , could sometimes leave everyone in the room breathless as he interrogate the so - call expert about the statistical basis of what they be propose to do . the survival of a scottish whitefish industry today be in no small part a result of his effort then . it be also in that first Parliament that I meet and get to know Alex ' s wife Moira . I do not think it be speak ill to say that Alex could divide a room ; Moira , on the other hand , be someone about whom I have never hear anyone say a bad word . she have always be unfailingly warm and friendly . her devotion to Alex be total and obvious to I from the first moment I meet she . so it be to Moira Salmond today that my thought turn . I can hardly imagine the sense of loss that she must be feel . to Moira and the rest of Alex ' s family I send my condolence and those of my party as we mourn the passing of Alex Salmond — a man whose like we may never see again . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . very , very few people in this House change history ; most of we be move by it rather than move it ourselves . Alex Salmond be an exception to that , as we have hear from all the people — mostly his opponent — who have speak well of he today . he be a brilliant speaker , passionate about social justice and particularly passionate about his own country and his wish for independence and the scottish nationalist agenda . he be fiercely brave — something that we often miss in this place . he be willing to challenge every establish power structure . he be incredibly energetic , erudite , intelligent and a brilliant leader . as a result , he achieve the thing we have hear about . the scottish nationalist cause go from what be frankly a minority interest to be a central part of scottish politic , and indeed of United Kingdom politic . he change they all — something that very few of we will be able to do . it be a tragedy that at the end of Alex ' s career his own party and Government turn on he . I be not go to elaborate on that today ; this be not the right place for that . but I will put on the record the comment make today by his lawyer , David McKie , who represent he through those really difficult time of his life . Mr McKie say : " Alex ' s courage and strength of character over the three - year period , from the Scottish Government launch an unlawful process against he , throughout his criminal trial in which he be clear of all charge by a jury of his peer , to his unimpeachable evidence to the parliamentary inquiry , be absolutely incredible . what he endure — the apparatus of the state turn against he — would have break many people , but not Alex … I will always remember a truly incredible human being , with remarkable insight , strength of personality and a stoic restraint which many other could not contemplate . " Alex be a very proud son of Scotland , but he be also a son of this House , of whom we ourselves should be proud . I finish by offer my condolence and heartfelt wish to Moira , the rest of his family and all his wide circle of friend . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . it be with a sense of disbelief that we hear the news on Saturday afternoon ; we all have to double - check that people be refer to the Alec Salmond whom we have all get to know so well . in 50 year , he have become a colossus — a huge political figure in Scotland . it be almost impossible to think of scottish politic without Alec Salmond . Alec recruit I to the Scottish National party in the 1990 ; he be a fan of a band I play with . I be able to return the favour some time later when I record he ; another passion Alec have be singe . let we just say that it be not exactly a huge hit and that it do not bother the chart . Alec be a man of many talent — there be many facet that make up Alec Salmond . watch Alec conduct political debate and work a room be to watch a political masterclass in engagement and communication . he could do that with a charm that be so effective and beguile that people naturally feel that they want to contribute and be with Alec Salmond . Scotland will miss Alec . we will all miss Alec in the Scottish National party . we must always remember that he come close to deliver what many people think be almost impossible — Scotland become an independent nation ; a nation of our own . he take the Scottish National party from a fringe interest — when I be first elect it have five mp and we have 18 % of the vote in Scotland — and we come so close to secure an independent nation of our own , which would never have be possible without the energy , charisma and dynamism of Alec Salmond . we be all hurt in the Scottish National party today . we have lose one of the giant of our political movement . I hope that everyone extend their sympathy to Moira and the rest of the family , to his colleague in the Alba party , and to everyone who work with he throughout all these year in a mission that Alec help to shape and design . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . it be difficult to overstate the influence that Alex Salmond have have on the national movement , not just in Scotland but in Wales . he have always be a true friend of my party , Plaid Cymru . he be respect , and will be respect in future , for his extraordinary resilience and optimism . he make the campaign for Scotland ' s independence a political reality , and he change the course of his nation — that be undeniable . as I say , Alex be a friend to Wales , and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have already mention his many facet . our former leader , Dafydd Wigley , be go to invite Alex Salmond to speak at a conference on the Welsh poet , r . s . Thomas — I do not know how many people would expect that — as r . s . Thomas and Welsh poetry be one of Alex ' s enthusiasm . I extend every sympathy from my party , Plaid Cymru , to Moira , to Alex ' s friend and family , and to our colleague in our sister party , the SNP . I be sure that everyone here send they our deep commiseration . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . the phrase " end of an era " be often bandy about , but Alex ' s parting really do feel like the end of an era . we be not friend ; we have a professional relationship , I would say . sometimes it be cordial , sometimes it be less so , because we disagree on some pretty fundamental issue . I always respect Alex as one of the most formidable and , indeed , ruthless political operator of our generation — I think he would welcome that epitaph . Alex ' s great political triumph be to be both establishment and anti - establishment at the same time , which be a pretty difficult trick to pull off . while he be at one moment First Minister of Scotland , he be also agitate to break up the United Kingdom . while at one minute he be highly critical of the Conservatives , he be also rely on conservative msp in the Scottish Parliament to sustain his minority Administration . one of my job when I be first elect in 2005 be to keep an eye on Alex in the Lobby , because he have a habit of encourage chat with new conservative mp . his line be that if Scotland be independent , that would be great for they because there would be a perpetual Conservative Government in England . we have recently see that that argument be slightly flawed , but I have to ensure that colleague be not tempt by it . Alex be a skilled debater , and that be very often demonstrate in this Chamber , despite his express wish to leave it . he have an authenticity and a common touch that be so often absent from modern politic . that be always very evident when one see he with his constituent . I absolutely share the view of the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on Moira Salmond . in my dealing with she , she be always a very charming and supportive spouse , and my heart go out to she and to Alex ' s friend and family at this very difficult time . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . like my colleague the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , I serve with Alec Salmond in the Scottish Parliament from 1999 . Alec do not always stay when we do ; sometimes he come back here , but he inevitably come back to Scotland , and he become Scotland ' s First Minister . of course , even before that , as a Scot interested in politic , I be aware of Alec and of his great strength and courage . I seem to remember that at one point he be not a member of the SNP , and it be always difficult to rebel against your own party , so all credit to he for do so then over a point of principle . I be interested in the point make by the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale about the Lobby . I have hear story from new Labour mp who be encourage to think about the way Scotland would be after independence — but for a different reason . it be suggest to they that Scotland would always vote in a Labour Government if we be to be independent , which just go to show how astute — and , I suppose , pragmatic — Alec be as a politician . he be a great performer in whichever Chamber he be in , and he be always worth listen to . obviously , my politic and his be very different , but I share platform with he on a number of occasion , and it be always interesting and an education to listen to what he have to say . my thought and prayer go to Moira , of course , and to Gail and the wide family , as well as to all those who know and love he . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . I share on behalf of all those at Reform our deep condolence to Moira and to Alex ' s wide family . I meet Alex Salmond just over two year ago in the world of medium . I have a radio show every Sunday for about two year . it be all go fine until I take a holiday and Alex Salmond kindly step in . in over 100 show , I survive the challenge of investigation and thing , but Alex ' s enthusiasm , energy and determination in that three - hour show mean that it be the only show of mine that trigger an Ofcom investigation . although we differ politically , Alex sort of seek I out in the medium , and I think he take pity on I , in a strange way , because he understand the challenge — the mad challenge of try to set up , run and fund a small political party . he be so generous with his word of advice , wisdom and encouragement , and I will never , ever forget that . none of we like lose , but I be with the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( Sir David Davis ) last year at the Edinburgh fringe , and we have a hearty , inspire debate — I will not tell the House the topic — host by Alex Salmond , and I have to say , it be like the right hon . Gentleman and I be in the lion ' s den . it be one of those rare moment when we enjoy lose , because we lose to a truly great man . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . it may come as a surprise to member to learn that I have a photograph of Alex Salmond in my back hall . that be because a long time ago , he , the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) and I be all member of the Students ' Representative Council of St Andrews University . it be a sleepy organisation in which we debate this and that . then , with a flash and a bang , like mephistophele appear in " Doctor Faustus " , he be there from nowhere — a fully equip , fully armed , formidable young politician , still in his late teen . that come as a shock to we all . have debate with he in student debate , I can tell the House that if he turn that laser eye on you and fire a verbal sally , it go straight through you , and then straight through the wall behind . he be a superb debater — I have never see his like . what be fascinating about he be that he be a fully develop politician so early in life . he know exactly what he be about and be determined to achieve his end . I be also briefly in the Scottish Parliament , as the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) allude to . in 2007 , at a reception at the Signet library in Edinburgh , he say , " Jamie , I want a word with you . " he corner I in one of those half - moon - shape alcove and tell I very forcibly how support the SNP Government in 2007 would lead to a revival of the Liberal party in the Scottish Parliament . Mention have rightly be make of his widow , Moira , whom I find to be a very nice person indeed . she once stop I on the Royal Mile , shortly after Alex have become First Minister , to say that she have get that dreadful upright piano out of the drawing room at Bute House . she just want I to know that . my thought be not only with Alex ' s family but with his circle of friend , to whom he mean a very great deal . our condolence should go to his family and to his friend as well . Charles Stewart Parnell make his name in history , and I believe that Alex Salmond will do so in exactly the same way , for many year to come . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . I associate myself with so many of the comment from member across the House . I first encounter Alex Salmond as a star - strike teenager , and a member of the 79 group attend a particularly fractious SNP conference in Ayr in 1982 . so fractious be the conference that Alex be subsequently expel from the party , albeit briefly . at the meeting that follow , even though he be less than 10 year old than I , I listen to the spellbind oratory of this young man . he be destine for greatness then . alec and I become close ally in the late 1980 . I be part of the campaign team that see he elect as SNP leader in 1990 . our path take wildly different trajectory , clearly , but we keep in touch on and off over the decade . I would not be here today be it not for Alec have arrange for I to go through to Edinburgh so that he could persuade I to put my hat in the ring for the SNP in Argyll and Bute in the 2015 election . I be far from alone in be an SNP politician who owe a huge debt to Alec Salmond . he be a titan of our movement , an irreplaceable force without whom our independence , when it do come — which it surely will — would never have be achieve . my thought be with Moira , as be those of so many in this House . my experience of Moira be that she be a very quiet but absolutely formidable force . I learn very quickly that if we want to get Alec to change his mind , we should go not to he but to Moira . she be an incredible force in herself . my deep condolence and sympathy be with Moira and Alec ' s immediate family . I do wonder when we will see his like again . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . I be grateful to you for allow this time to pay tribute to Alex Salmond ; he absolutely deserve it and it be great that we be do it . the leader of the SNP , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , speak very well and very movingly about Alex ' s contribution to life , which I think be very generous . the SNP clearly treat its former leader with great respect , and I think that be a good idea . [ laughter . ] I also thank the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( Sir David Davis ) for what he say . Alex do go through the most appalling stress and personal pressure , and no doubt he have moment of self - doubt and real concern about the whole thing . the fact that the right hon . Member speak so well about that really be a testament to what Alex be make of . during his time here , Alex be a good friend to lot of we . he always oppose war , and he always stand up for civil liberty and justice . his strength of character , in Scotland and in the wide world , make the SNP the party it be and the formidable force it become . he make the argument for scottish independence cogent , realistic and understandable . we should remember that Alex Salmond live life to the full and speak to the full . he be totally involve in absolutely everything he do , and be an amazing and very friendly force around this place . I , for one , will miss he . I send my condolence to Moira , his wide family , and all his colleague in both Alba and the SNP in Scotland . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . " Consequential " and " impactful " be word that we have hear about Alec over the past few day , from across the political spectrum and beyond . which of we would not want such an epitaph , regardless of our politic ? Alec be also impactful on so many of we on an individual basis . I get drag back into politic on more than one occasion , have unwisely try to pursue a career elsewhere . obviously , his desire for independence and to remove , as he would see it , this unnecessary layer of government be at the heart of his politic , but he be a profoundly impactful mp in this place . he know the Standing Orders inside out , which could make it tricky for Ministers , opponent and speaker from time to time . that hard work mean that he be — frustratingly , from my experience — always one step ahead . it be impossible to spend time with Alec and not learn something — absolutely impossible . my hon . friend the Member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) be right to talk about Moira Salmond as be formidable . she be also wonderful . I can remember on more than one occasion be pass to Moira for a chat after a very robust exchange with Alec . she be always there so we could figure thing out and smooth thing over . finally , the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) mention Parnell . Alec mention Parnell as well . Parnell be somebody who lay the groundwork for independence and for whom — to paraphrase Alec , when it come to independence — " the dream shall never die . " far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . Alex Salmond be a great friend at university and also in this House . despite political difference , I speak from personal experience when I say that he be a man capable of very great kindness . I shall certainly miss he , and Moira certainly have my condolence . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , I would like to join right hon . and hon . member in express our sincere condolence on the death of Alex Salmond . I would like to begin by assure Alex ' s family , his wife Moira and all those who love he that our thought and prayer be with they all at this time , after the sudden shock of lose Alex . we be all the poor for his passing . over the year , I do a number of interview with he in the job that he have for a certain station . interview with he be always enjoyable . he always have a chat beforehand about the question he be go to ask , so that I be able to prepare the answer . he always do it with humour and it be always a delight . I sit behind he on these Benches during the time that he and I be in this place at the same time . I have see he only on tv and be not quite sure what sort of a person he be , so it be a pleasure to get to know he — he be most disarm . he be a colossus of nationalism , but he always ask I about the colossus of Unionism , Dr Ian Paisley — they be diametrically oppose in their politic , but in many way they be similar . Alex ' s question be always about those he have serve with and those he have the pleasure to be with . that make he much more human , perhaps , and bring the person to life more than the tv do . as have be say , Alex be a man of great passion and a wonderful speaker . we be diametrically oppose in term of our unionist and nationalist view , but Alex ' s passion be the stuff of scottish folklore , and reminiscent of the rich culture of scot in the past who give their all for their ideal . this be a quality that I could admire , although I could never agree — but that be ok , because Alex be enough of a politician to give respect to my firmly hold view on Unionism . Alex be a man of sincere belief and a consummate politician , and he be also a man of great pride : he be proud of his culture , proud of his root , and proud of what he believe Scotland have the potential to be . today in the House , with his passing , we recognise and respect the memory of a proud , passionate politician who oppose , who lead , and who inspire we all in turn . far to those point of order , Mr Speaker . may I pass on my condolence to Alex Salmond ' s family , friend and former colleague , and may I also do so on behalf of many of my constituent who would have know he and support his cause ? as a journalist , I land very few blow — very few journalist land any blow — on Alex Salmond . as the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) mention , there be one quarrel about fish in 1992 , which be forgive eventually in , I think , 2006 , by which time Alex Salmond have transform himself and his movement ; he have stop be throw out of his party and throw out of this place , and have replace that complaint with a message of optimism , hope and self - confidence , often base on his own hope , self - confidence and optimism , and nothing more . but that great communication skill , and that ability to forgive , if not forget , and to have political opponent but not political enemy , be one of his great legacy to his party , to all of we in this Chamber and to Scotland . report Ministerial Gifts and Hospitality ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister to make a statement on the reporting and acceptance of ministerial gift and hospitality . I wish to update the House on the action that the Government will take to enhance transparency in relation to ministerial gift and hospitality . transparency be a critical part of restore public faith in politic , and the Government recognise that change be need . under the last government , the rule for Ministers declare hospitality be less transparent than those for other member of Parliament . list of hospitality receive by Ministers be publish by Whitehall Departments only once a quarter and do not include the value . in contrast , mp ' and shadow Ministers ' interest must be declare within 28 day , and must include the cost of the hospitality . Tory Ministers use this loophole even when event appear to have have little connection with their government role . both the House of Commons Committee on Standards and the Committee on Standards in Public Life have call for that disparity to be remove . under the last government , Labour Front Benchers who attend event could end up sit next to their Tory counterpart . Labour mp have to declare detail in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — importantly , include value — while Tory Ministers do not , under the equivalent ministerial process . the Government will correct this imbalance : the Tory freebie loophole will be close . in the future , the Government will publish a register of Ministers ' gift and hospitality on a basis broadly equivalent to that which be publish in the register of Members ' and Lords ' interest . this will bring the publication of ministerial transparency datum more closely into line with the parliamentary regime for gift and hospitality . the Government intend that these arrangement should be in place as soon as possible and will set out further detail in due course . the Prime Minister intend shortly to issue and publish an update version of the ministerial code , in which he will set out his expectation for the conduct of all who serve in Government as Ministers . as well as confirm these new reporting arrangement , this will include additional guidance for Ministers on the principle that they should apply when consider whether to accept gift of offer of hospitality , as part of the Government ' s work to restore public faith in politic as a force for good . I thank the hon . Lady for her response . on the step of Downing Street on 5 July , the Prime Minister pledge to put " country first and party second " . Labour Ministers have be beset by a series of scandal involve freebie . the Prime Minister have claim that this be all a " perfectly sensible arrangement " . do the right hon . Lady still believe that ? what gift and hospitality can Ministers now accept ? can Cabinet Ministers continue to party in dj booth in Ibiza ? will Ministers be ban from Oasis 2025 tour junket , or be it just Taylor Swift that be a handout too far ? what role do Downing Street play in the VIP escort for Taylor Swift , far to the free Taylor Swift ticket from Universal Music ? have all the political staff in the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary office correctly declare their financial interest and hospitality receive ? the new chief of staff ' s entry seem very empty . have all ministerial donation in kind be declare at their full market value ? why do Ministers refuse to say , in answer to parliamentary question , when the new ministerial transparency platform will go live ? be the sheer scale on which the Prime Minister benefit from other ' largesse now a conflict of interest ? will the hon . Lady confirm that the Prime Minister be take a donation in kind of £ 100 , 000 a year from Arsenal football club , and will he now recuse himself from involvement in the football governance Bill ? amid scandal such as " cash for croissant " , " free - gear Keir " and " pass for glass " , where be Labour ' s new ethic and integrity commission , and what have labour donor get in return for their generosity ? what discussion do the Prime Minister ' s former chief of staff and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have with Lord Alli on ministerial and public appointment ? will Ministers place in the Library all the document relate to Lord Alli ' s " Operation Integrity " ? finally , can the Minister explain to this House why the millionaire Prime Minister can not clothe himself without gift from other ? as I say to the right hon . gentleman in my first response , this Government be commit to rebuild trust in politic . the Prime Minister have commission a new set of principle on gift and hospitality , which will be publish shortly . that will outlaw the Tory freebie loophole , because this Government be commit to be more up front and open than our predecessor . we will take no lecture from the conservative party on gift and hospitality , standard in public life or trust in politic . let I tell the right hon . Gentleman what shatter trust in politic : the behaviour of the Conservatives in their 14 year in power . they partie in Downing Street while the whole country sacrifice its freedom . they hand lucrative covid contract to friend and donor , and fail to expel mps who be catch break the rule . that be the difference between this Government and the last one . we be strengthen the rule . when Owen Paterson be find to have break the rule , the Conservatives try to rip they up , and now they want we to believe that they care about trust in politic . this be utterly shameless . of course , it be not just Tory sleaze and scandal that erode trust ; just as corrosive have be the complete and utter failure of conservative politician to keep the promise they make to the british people . now the work of change begin . as I have already set out , it start with rebuild trust in our politic , which we be commit to do . the cynical and confected outrage that we have hear from the right hon . Gentleman today be fool no one . if Conservative Members really want to help repair the damage they cause to trust in politic , they would do well to back the change we be make , and to say sorry for the sleaze and scandal that plague their 14 year in power . the Conservatives have some brass neck criticise the Government on this subject when it be the Conservatives who set up the vip lane for contract during covid , and who accept many gift that they do not have to declare . my hon . friend be absolutely right to close the loophole . I point out to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) that he refuse to vote for the Committee of Privileges report on Boris Johnson , who lie to this House . how be that improve standard in political life ? what a performance ! my hon . friend be right to point out the vip lane for covid contract . the fact be that Conservative Members have the opportunity to take a stand when Owen Paterson break the rule , and they vote instead to rip up those very rule . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Sarah Olney . I must say that I be startled to see conservative mp act as though they be defender of standard in public life . under the last government , Ministers be subject to less transparency than Back - Bench mps . we will never know the interest of some of the Ministers who serve under Liz Truss , because their ministerial interest be never publish . however , I say to the new Government that if minister do not treat the need to restore standard with the urgency that it deserve , there will be no sympathy for they from the public , either . the independent adviser on ministerial interest have make it clear that the current system produce a list of interest , not a full register . will the Minister guarantee that we will now see a full register publish , just as there be for mps , and set out the timescale ? will the Government rectify the fact that we go month under the previous Government without a list of interest be publish by retrospectively publish those interest ? will the Government enshrine the ministerial code in law , and include in that law timescale for regularly publish a register of interest , so that we can have confidence that it will be publish ? finally , will the Government make the role of the ethic adviser truly independent by empower the adviser to begin their investigation and publish their own report ? the hon . Member make a number of important point . in relation to value , yes , this be about a close alignment of the two scheme . mp need to declare value at the moment , but value do not need to be declare under the ministerial scheme . that be the loophole that we be look to close , and we will do so as soon as possible . will this Government ' s ethic and integrity commission end the grotesque situation that arise under the endemic corruption of the Conservative Government , which see a relative of someone who extend lavish hospitality to disgrace former Prime Minister Boris Johnson put in the House of Lords against the advice of our security service ? my hon . friend will know that , as well as deal with these issue , we be seek to reform the House of Lords and improve the transparency of the appointment process . on the ticket that be give away for free , there be a lot of concern among constituent about the way that the Government seem to have be involve in compromise the operational independence of the police . I appreciate that the Minister can not set out the Attorney General ' s advice , but can she explain to the House why the Attorney General be ask to give advice , and what question the Attorney General be ask to answer ? policing be an operational matter for the police , and so not something that I can comment on directly . do the Minister agree that if the opposition really want to make progress with standard in public life , they would reflect on their own record , include the vip lane , partygate and their determination to lose by - election as a result of the conduct of member of Parliament from their party ? do she also agree that we be make progress on this issue through our plan ? I thank my hon . friend for those important point . the action of the conservative party have lead to the erosion of trust in politic , and that be the issue that Labour member now seek to clear up . thank you to Opposition Members for their support for those on the Government Front Bench today . [ hon . member : " we ' re the Government now . " ] the Government have be totally tone deaf in their response to the situation , which be reveal not as a result of the Government ' s transparency — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need any help from Labour Members . hand signal do not impress I in the slight . the situation be reveal not because of the Government ' s transparency but through our popular press . the amount of money declare in the register seem to be at odd with true market value , particularly for the short - term lease of flat . will the Minister provide clarity on how we can ensure that the true figure be represent in the register ? I be not sure about the right hon . Gentleman ' s specific point , but at the heart of this be our aim to increase transparency in the reporting process . there be a disparity between what mps declare and what Ministers declare . the Tories do nothing to fix that in 14 year in government , and that be what we now seek to change . I must have miss a trick , because it seem like just a couple of year ago , there be this sort of behaviour from Conservative Members on an industrial scale . Prime Minister Johnson receive a £ 58 , 000 donation to turn his flat into some sort of crack den or party central , and then he be offer £ 150 , 000 by the same person to build a treehouse for his son . I welcome what the Minister say . do she agree that the approach and the principle that she be set out be totally different from what go before ? I repeat that we want to make the rule more transparent . we have clearly set out how we intend to get transparency on gift and hospitality , which have be lack for too long . government guideline for the self - employ be very clear : " you can not claim for everyday clothing ( even if you wear it for work ) . " yet we have hear that Cabinet Ministers declare clothing donation as donation in kind for undertake parliamentary duty and , far , " to support the Shadow Chancellor ' s office " . do the Minister think that these be transparent donation , or be they design to deceive ? no Member set out to deceive the House , and donation have be make in the right way . there be no suggestion that donation have not be declare properly or transparently . we be seek to align the rule for Ministers with the rule for mps , but I do not think there have be any suggestion that declaration have not be properly make . if the newspaper be to be believe , several member on the sparsely populate conservative Benches be consider stand down if the Government ' s reform to clamp down on second job be deliver . will the Minister confirm her commitment to deliver these reform to restore standard in public life , despite the sad possible loss of Conservative Members ? of course the Modernisation Committee will look incredibly closely at the issue of second job . in June 2022 , the now Deputy Prime Minister say : " Honesty matter , integrity matter and decency matter . we should be ambitious for high standard , and we should all be accountable " . — [ Official Report , 7 June 2022 ; Vol . 715 , c . 680 . ] labour promise change , but the truth be that this be not that different from the sleaze that go before . what the public see be the Labour party say , " it be our turn now . " the party be act like pea in a pod . can the Minister tell we why , have shower an assortment of gift on the Prime Minister and other Cabinet colleague , Lord Alli be give a triple - a pass to Downing Street ? who request that the pass be give , and exactly what be the pass use for ? I agree with those word from the Deputy Prime Minister . what I do not accept be the suggestion of equivalence with those on the Conservative Benches , when the former Prime Minister be fine for break lockdown rule . while people up and down the country be stick to the rule , often at great personal sacrifice , those in no . 10 be party and break the rule , and at the same time their friend and donor be give fast - track route for their covid contract , so I do not accept that there be equivalence . everything have be properly declare and we want to make the rule around transparency even great . will the Minister remind member of this House which Prime Minister be reward with a holiday to Mustique ? as hon . member may remember , there be a lot of mystique about Mustique at the time . I will give the Conservatives a hint : it be not a member on the labour side of the House . as I recall , it be former Prime Minister Boris Johnson who benefit from that holiday to Mustique . the Prime Minister have say he have be transparent , break no rule and follow all ordinance , yet he have pay back £ 6 , 000 out of that £ 100 , 000 . can the Minister tell we why he have choose to do that , which rule he be follow , which guidance he mean and which other member of the Cabinet will also be pay back money for ticket ? that be a personal matter for the Prime Minister , but we have make it clear , and the Prime Minister have make it clear , that we be go to make the rule around transparency more align with those for mps and reform the code , with a clear set of guidance in relation to the receipt of gift and hospitality . in the meantime , the Prime Minister have pay back a number of item while the new code be be finalise . if brass neck be an olympic sport , the Conservatives would all be gold medallist . they preside over a carnival of corruption . do the Minister agree that it be their partying in Downing Street , their contract for their mate and their constant failure to deliver that undermined trust in government , and will she join I in call on they to apologise for their year of mismanagement ? of course , the Conservatives create and preside over this loophole in the rule . they break the rule during covid lockdown and give fast - track pass to their friend and donor for covid contract , so we will not take lecture from they on this . do the Minister agree that the use of police outrider , whistle and siren to facilitate the ferrying of the favour few around capital city characterise the capital city of less enlightened realm and not — until this point — our own ? do she also agree that the special escort group need to be use sparingly , and not to ferry entertainer around , regardless of the number of free ticket dispense to senior member of the Government ? as I say in a previous answer , that be an operational matter for the police and not something I can comment on far . on the Prime Minister ' s first day in office , he prioritise meet the independent adviser on ministerial standard . do the Minister agree that that stand in stark contrast to the approach of the previous Government , which see two independent adviser on ministerial standard resign and the post sit vacant for six month ? the Prime Minister have it make clear , both in those meeting and in what he have say , that clean up and restore trust in politic be incredibly important . I know that the Modernisation Committee be look at a number of measure . we have also set out how we intend the ministerial code of conduct to strengthen thing . I think that be incredibly important , particularly in restore the trust that have be erode so much over these past 14 year . after year of conservative sleaze and scandal , we need to reset mps ' and minister ' relationship with standard in public life . therefore , will the Minister commit to enshrine the ministerial code in law ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . there be no plan to do that at this stage . I be sure that many member will share my disbelief and that of my constituent at report in the Times today that as many as one in 10 Conservative Members be consider stand down early because of the closing down of loophole on second job . regardless of political affiliation , one of our most important responsibility be make sure we build and maintain our constituent ' trust in politic . whether it be by tighten up the rule on second job or make sure we clamp down on some of the loophole on Ministers ' declaration that we have under the last government , will the Government remain resolute in ensure that when we come to this House , we do so to serve our constituent and not ourselves ? as I say in answer to a previous question , the Modernisation Committee be look at the matter very closely . be a Member of Parliament be a huge privilege and an honour . it be a full - time job , and then some . it be important , and it be also important that we look closely at the appropriateness of second job for member of Parliament . why have the Prime Minister pay back some gift that he have receive since he become Prime Minister but not those he receive as Leader of the opposition ? be there a different standard for Government Ministers and for the Opposition ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer . be this not another example of this Labour Government have to clear up the Conservatives ' mess ? they vote against suspend Owen Paterson from this House when wrongdoing be demonstrate . do the Minister agree that both candidate for the leadership of the conservative party should declare their full hospitality over the past 12 month or more ? I thank my hon . friend for that interesting suggestion . it be right that we look at all those thing . he refer to Owen Paterson . after that , it feel like lesson have not be learn , because soon afterwards Scott Benton have to stand down from Parliament for breach lobbying rule as well . it seem like there be something of a pattern . do the Minister not agree that this be about not just transparency but hypocrisy ? when my constituent , because of labour ' s scrapping of the winter fuel payment , have to choose between heat their home and clothing themselves , they can see the hypocrisy of the Prime Minister in get ten of thousand of pound for clothing and glass . when they have to decide whether to send their child to an independent school for special educational need and disability because the Labour party be go to add vat to school fee , while the Prime Minister can rent out a flat cost ten of thousand of pound for his child , they smell hypocrisy . when will the Prime Minister come and apologise for that and when will he return all of that money ? let I say something about hypocrisy . Hypocrisy be when people in Downing Street , include the former Prime Minister , be party during lockdown as my constituent and people up and down the country be make the great sacrifice , with father not be at the birth of their child and people not be able to say goodbye to their love one . I will not take lecture on hypocrisy from the Conservatives . do the Minister agree that it be shameful that the Conservatives leave the role of the Prime Minister ' s UK anti - corruption champion vacant for two year ? be it any wonder , give the sort of thing that go on over the past 14 year ? the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson have to apologise to the Commons for fail to declare more than £ 50 , 000 in outside income . there be also that £ 15 , 000 trip to a luxury villa on Mustique . no wonder they could not keep their ethic adviser in place when that sort of behaviour be go on at the heart of Government . there be a duty on all member and Ministers to ensure transparency regard gift receive . do the Minister agree that more work need to be do to clarify the rule around the declaration of hospitality and gift to ensure that the rule be equal and fair for all , regardless of parliamentary status ? I thank the hon . member for his helpful contribution . that be exactly what we seek to do through these change . I welcome the conversion of the conservative party to transparency and ethic . whether it be wallpaper or wedding , or Pincher , Paterson or Benton , Conservative Members be sadly silent when they think that one of their own should get away with thing . may I suggest that my hon . friend retrospectively apply the new rule to the last 12 month of every serve member who be a Minister ? they should have to declare every piece of hospitality and gift that they receive as Ministers , so that we can see exactly what their own record be compare with our cleanliness . I thank my hon . friend for his observation . that be certainly something that I can take back to be look at . I listen with interest to the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , talk about integrity in politic . my mind go back to a defining image from the last Parliament : her late Majesty say goodbye to the Duke of Edinburgh in April 2021 , abide by every single rule , as she always do . we find out later that the previous night there have be party in Downing Street . do my hon . friend agree that there be absolutely no comparison between this Government , who be clear up the mess , and the one that go before we ? I thank my hon . friend for his important comment . I do not think that the public will forget that image of the Queen sit on her own . the idea that there be any equivalence between the rule break during covid , and the fast track for vip , and we now try to sort thing out by make the process more transparent be frankly indefensible from Conservative Members . the shadow Minister may remember that he fail personally to support the suspension of Owen Paterson after he be find guilty of lobby and be pay thousand of pound to raise question in Parliament . do the Minister agree that today ' s conversion to standard and integrity ring completely hollow ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . I have a look recently at the record of conservative mp in that vote to rip up the rule on standard , in effect , to get Owen Paterson off the hook . overwhelmingly , those on the Opposition Front Bench vote to rip up the rule on standard . later today , we will debate a Bill to protect entertainment event from terrorism . it come in the aftermath of the terrible terrorist attack on an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester . in more recent month , Taylor Swift have have to cancel a concert , owe to the risk to her life and the life of concert - goer . do the Minister agree that when we debate the Bill , it be important that we take the politic out of the debate , recognise the real risk to life , proceed with due caution , properly talk about the loss of life in Manchester , and aim to avoid any future loss of life at entertainment event ? I thank my hon . friend for that incredibly important point . the Bill will put Martyn ' s law on the statute book , for which victim of the awful Manchester Arena terror attack have campaign long and hard , and I hope that it will be debate in the tone and spirit that my hon . friend set out . Gibraltar - Spain Border Checks ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the decision by the spanish authority to implement border and passport check at the frontier with Gibraltar on 10 October . before I begin , I would like to associate myself with the remark make across the House a few moment ago , after the passing of Alex Salmond . my thought and sympathy be with his family . I thank the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) for his question . I be respond because my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) — the Minister for Europe , North America and Overseas Territories — be in Germany on Government business . the Government be aware that late on Thursday 10 October , spanish border officer increase check on permanent resident of Gibraltar cross into Spain from Gibraltar . the change in process involve stamp the passport of all non - EU national cross the border . it go against the informal bridge measure in place since EU exit and be make without warn . the increase check be briefly reciprocate the follow morning by his Majesty ' s Government of Gibraltar , who have full responsibility for immigration matter . that lead to some disruption on the spanish side of the border . my hon . friend the Minister contact his spanish counterpart , Fernando Sampedro , State Secretary for the EU , in relation to this change in process . in parallel , the UK ' s ambassador to Spain engage with the Spanish Ministry of the Interior . we understand that the change in process be instigate locally by a spanish border official . the matter be deal with swiftly by Spain and usual border arrangement resume . we be grateful to the Government of Spain for the continued implementation of the informal bridge measure . we be in close touch with the Government of Gibraltar , include Chief Minister Fabian Picardo , and we will continue to monitor the situation . it be in all our interest that the border between Gibraltar and Spain operate smoothly . the Government , work with the Government of Gibraltar , be commit to finalise a UK - EU agreement in respect of Gibraltar as soon as possible . that would bring certainty for the people of the region and secure future prosperity . we remain steadfast in our support for Gibraltar , and we will only agree to term that the Government of Gibraltar be content with . schengen border check at the start of the EU entry - exit system be always expect , and that be one reason why we be work so hard to achieve a deal . the Government continue to work with the Government of Gibraltar on how good to mitigate the impact of border disruption should an agreement with the EU not be possible . finally , I understand that today be Gibraltar Day , when the Government of Gibraltar celebrate the link between Gibraltar and the UK . I wish they every success with their various event . I thank the Minister for her response , but the people of Gibraltar have long memory . when Labour be last in power , the Blair Government attempt to agree a joint sovereignty deal with Spain behind the back of the Gibraltarians and without their consent . it be all about appease Spain and the European Union , and some of we fear that the same thing could happen this time . even if Spain ' s decision to effectively impose a hard border on the frontier on 10 October be not make centrally , the fact that this extreme measure be take at all be incredibly concerning , and it be a warning of what be to come if a solid bilateral agreement be not reach in the come week . if a hard border be implement , there be no winner : the people of Spain and Gibraltar both suffer . the fact that , despite this , Spain continue to weaponise the frontier with the aim of exercise authority over sovereign british territory be morally and constitutionally reprehensible . there can be no spanish boot on the Rock — that must be non - negotiable . the people of Gibraltar have be bully by the spanish authority over many decade , and this late infraction come at a critical time in the negotiation over the future of the frontier , with the new Schengen area entry - exit control system on the horizon . as such , do the Minister agree that any agreement must fully acknowledge that Gibraltar be 100 % british ? the people of Gibraltar have make it abundantly clear that they reject any suggestion of spanish sovereignty by vote to remain british . his Majesty ' s Government have a duty to stand by the loyal people of Gibraltar , whatever it take : there can be no weakening of british sovereignty , and the Gibraltarians ' right to self - determination must be uphold . with that in mind , and follow the Government ' s betrayal of the british chagossian people only last week , will the Minister raise this incident with her counterpart in Madrid as a matter of urgency ; confirm that she will never capitulate in any negotiation to Spain ' s demand to allow spanish boot on gibraltarian soil ; and guarantee the Government ' s steadfast loyalty to the sovereign british overseas territory of Gibraltar and its people ? I have to say that I regret the tone adopt by the hon . Gentleman . many of we in this House be friend of our overseas territory and very much respect their right to sovereignty . in that context , it be critical that we always focus on the fact of the matter and do not seek to obtain party political advantage from they . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will have see the comment of the Chief Minister of Gibraltar , which could not have be clear on this matter . it be inappropriate to politicise such matter . the UK Government could not have be clear that we be confident of british sovereignty over the whole of Gibraltar , include British Gibraltar territorial water . we be steadfast in our support for Gibraltar , and the UK Government will never enter into arrangement under which the people of Gibraltar would pass under the sovereignty of another state against their freely and democratically express wish . we will never enter into a process of sovereignty negotiation with which Gibraltar be not content ; that double lock be safe with this Government , and we be fully committed to it . will my right hon . friend confirm that we will always support the people of Gibraltar and , indeed , the interest of the Government of Gibraltar ? absolutely , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for be so clear about this matter . it be very important for the UK Government to underline that commitment to sovereignty ; indeed , it be my understanding that the Foreign Secretary be discuss this matter with his spanish counterpart this very morning . we will continue to focus on ensure sovereignty and , above all , the interest of everyone in the region who need to see , for example , the deal that we have be work so hard towards . I call the shadow Minister . may I join the right hon . Lady in her remark about Alex Salmond , who be a personal friend and a long - stand colleague . I mourn his loss . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) for bring this important urgent question before the House today , and I thank the right hon . Lady for her response . let I be crystal clear : there should be no need for check at the border between Spain and Gibraltar . last Friday ' s report that spanish police be insist on check be alarming , and we need to get to the bottom of what happen . those check cause misery in people ' s daily life , undermine Gibraltar ' s trade and economy , and inconvenience spanish people who depend on their work in Gibraltar for their income . the House need to understand what support the Government have provide to Gibraltar and , crucially , what discussion the Foreign Secretary have have with his spanish counterpart about why check by spanish police be carry out with no warning . I hope the right hon . Lady can reassure the House that she have make plain to her spanish counterpart that this simply must not happen again . we must reject any attempt to ratchet up the pressure on the important negotiation that be take place to secure Gibraltar ' s future . it be allege that Spain have take note of the british Government ' s ill - advise decision to give away the British Indian Ocean Territory . the Government have claim that their commitment to our other overseas territory be unchanged despite the agreement with Mauritius , so now be an opportunity for they to show that they mean what they say . on the negotiation with Spain and the EU , we want to see a deal as swiftly as possible , but it need to be the right deal , and one that both the Government and the people of Gibraltar can get behind — in other word , the deal that we be negotiate before we leave government . the last Conservative Government be unequivocally clear , in public and in private , that Gibraltar ' s sovereignty be never up for negotiation . Gibraltar be british . have myself visit Gibraltar to take part in a literary festival , I know , as many other in this House know , that Gibraltar be as british as bacon and egg . the people of Gibraltar emphatically affirm this in a referendum when 99 % vote to remain british , and we be count on the Government to stand squarely behind that commitment . that commitment be one that we share within this House . we can not be clear on that . the right hon . Gentleman specifically ask about the detail of recent event . just to provide a little more information on that for the House , on the evening of 10 October the UK Government be notify that spanish official have increase check on UK national cross into Spain , include permanent resident of Gibraltar . we understand , as I mention at the beginning , that this change process be instigate by a local border officer , not by the spanish authority centrally . the Chief Minister of his Majesty ' s Government of Gibraltar release a press release with further information on the situation at the time . the UK Government raise the issue with the spanish authority , include at ministerial level . we be in close touch with the Government of Gibraltar and continue to monitor the situation . it be in all our interest that the border between Gibraltar and Spain operate smoothly . that have be make crystal clear by the UK Government . although I appreciate many of the comment make by the right hon . Gentleman , I do regret the tone of the claim he make in relation to BIOT . the situation of BIOT be not comparable . that be a unique agreement that have absolutely no bearing on wide UK Government policy regard our overseas territory . it be a very different issue with a very different history . the UK remain committed to our overseas territory family . if there be any question about that , I would again refer the right hon . gentleman to the comment from the Chief Minister of Gibraltar himself , who could not be clear about his disappointment at those who seek to party - politicise these matter . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the work towards the treaty . the UK Government be work with the Government of Gibraltar to progress a treaty that protect sovereignty and UK military autonomy , and that secure future prosperity for Gibraltar and the region . we remain steadfast in that process and in our support for Gibraltar , and we will only agree to term with which the Government of Gibraltar be content . it seem that we be to be treat to another bout of recklessness on foreign policy by the conservative party this week . can the Minister confirm that british sovereignty over Gibraltar be not up for negotiation , and that to suggest otherwise be both wrong and irresponsible ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . I absolutely can make that confirmation . the UK Government be commit to the double lock . we will never enter into arrangement under which the people of Gibraltar pass under the sovereignty of another state against their freely and democratically express wish , and we will never enter into a process of sovereignty negotiation with which Gibraltar be not content . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . first , I associate myself with the comment in the Chamber about the untimely passing of Alex Salmond . my thought be with his family at this terrible time . the Liberal Democrats believe in the right of self - determination for the people of Gibraltar . nothing should happen to diminish that . it be over 20 year ago , as previously mention , that Gibraltarians overwhelmingly reject the idea that Spain should have joint sovereignty . another idea that Gibraltarians overwhelmingly reject be , of course , leave the European Union . they have have to live with the consequence of the decision that be impose upon they and the botched Brexit deal negotiate by the previous Government . I commend the Government of Gibraltar for their principled and pragmatic approach to the future border arrangement with Spain . do the Minister agree that nothing should be decide for the people of Gibraltar without the consent of the people of Gibraltar ? give the extension of the talk , it be important that they conclude in a spirit of co - operation , so have he receive any assurance from Spain that while the Gibraltar treaty negotiation continue , there will be no repeat of the action last week ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for those point , and I absolutely agree with his characterisation of the position of the people of Gibraltar and the UK Government ' s commitment to they . he ask about the deal that be currently be negotiate . I think all side agree on the importance of conclude an EU - UK treaty as soon as possible . that will bring certainty for the people of the region and will secure future prosperity . we be absolutely determined to make progress on this issue , but above all , that double lock will always stay in place . I be very sorry to hear the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) use such militaristic undertone about what be a very unfortunate incident for the Gibraltarians . I be also disappointed to hear once again the confected outrage over the future sovereignty of Gibraltar . today , Gibraltarians want to know that they can go about their daily life , and I would like the Minister to reassure the House that she be do everything she can to calm the tension that have arise from this incident . what be really important be that the daily life of Gibraltarians be as smooth as possible and that their interest and sovereignty be always at the forefront of these issue , not party politic . history show again and again that appeasement do not work . it be inevitable after the abject surrender of the Chagos island , for that be what it be , that the Spanish would try to exert pressure on Gibraltar . [ interruption . ] hon . member shake their head , but the Government be so embarrassed by the Chagos deal that they will not even tell the House of Commons what we will have to pay to rent our own base . come back to Gibraltar , my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) be right that under Blair , Labour try to sell out the Gibraltarians for joint sovereignty and a referendum kill it . we could not trust labour on Gibraltar before , so why on earth , after what it have do to Chagos and the Chagossians , should we trust Labour now ? I really regret this playground - style characterisation of issue that be so fundamental , particularly for those who live in Gibraltar . I mention the comment of the Chief Minister of the Falklands , and the right hon . Member have now force I to quote they , give the nature of what he have just say . the Chief Minister say some of these claim be " more about party politic , blame - gaming and Tory Party leadership issue … than " they be actually about the sovereignty of people who live in the overseas territory . he could not have be clear . [ Official Report , 31 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 12wc . ] ( Correction ) do the Minister agree that the action we have see over the last few day risk damage the regional economy in Spain as much as they do in Gibraltar , and therefore all side must work together to avoid a recurrence of that ? I strongly agree . there be of course substantial and regular traffic of good and people across the border . that be fundamental not only for the economy of Gibraltar , but of course for Andalusia , Spain and the entire region more broadly , so it be really important that that be bear in mind as well as the sovereignty issue . the Minister will agree that the people of Scotland do not come second on much , but they do come second to the people of Gibraltar in their overwhelming rejection of Brexit when they see through that disastrous Tory deal , which have lead to many of the problem we see today . do she think the people of Gibraltar be well off with this Tory Brexit deal , or do they see some value in our EU membership in way that the Tories do not ? I would not seek to speak for the people of Gibraltar ; that would not be appropriate . what be most important be that we ensure progress on the UK - EU deal on these matter . the Foreign Secretary , my hon . friend the Minister of State and the Chief Minister of Gibraltar meet Executive Vice - President Š ef č ovi č of the European Commission and spanish Foreign Minister Albares in Brussels in September to have discussion . those discussion be focus on the issue that many people in Gibraltar be concern about — in particular , the movement of people and good — and this Government be determined to make progress . my constituent be proud to be british , just as the people of Gibraltar be , and I join the Minister in acknowledge Gibraltar Day . I be afraid , though , that some in this House have not listen to her response . will she be as clear as possible , in answer my point , that this Government will only ever stand with the people of Gibraltar for as long as they want we to stand with they ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and the clear answer that I can give be yes , yes and yes . last week , my mother be desperately try to get out of Gibraltar and back to the UK to be with my grandmother , who have suddenly turn very ill and be receive end - of - life care . the plane she be due to get on divert to Malaga due to adverse weather condition , but the border be close to the passenger , strand british citizen in Gibraltar , with no rescheduled flight and no offer of accommodation . I put on record my sincere thank to the Minister of State responsible for Europe , North America and the overseas territory , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , and the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) for their advice and guidance during that very distressing period last week . will the right hon . Lady advise , take into account the challenge that Gibraltar airport face , what step she be take to ensure that british passport holder face emergency can cross the border into Spain and return home swiftly ? I know the whole House would want to send our very good wish to the hon . member ' s grandmother and that it regret the really difficult situation that her family be place in . the Government absolutely recognise the challenge , and have be work hard on they , and I be grateful for her kind recognition of that . there have be two challenge : the disruption cause by bad weather , for example , to Malaga , as otherwise there would have be plane land on Gibraltar ; and the issue she mention with the airport , which be cause by the ingress of water . I pay tribute to the RAF staff who have be work around the clock to try to set that right . we recognise the disruption and will continue to make many representation to ensure that those who should be able to smoothly exit and enter Gibraltar can do so in the future . there be no doubt about it : last week , the spanish authority seek to hold the british people of Gibraltar hostage by put in border control and disrupt their travel . one should not be surprise by that . I know that Government member try to deny it , but there be a connection between what happen with the Chagos island last week and the aggressiveness of the spanish authority and the EU this week . the EU have learn a lesson , not just from this government , but from the last government — when it come to want to put its footprint on british territory , successive british government have show , whether with Northern Ireland or now with Gibraltar , that they be willing to concede . can the Minister give we an assurance that she will not be give in to the bullying , bribery or attempt by the Spanish Government and the EU to once again put their imprint on british territory ? I be afraid I have to wholly reject the claim make by the right hon . member . the agreement on the British Indian Ocean Territory be unique , and base on the unique history and circumstance of BIOT . it have absolutely no bearing on the wide UK Government policy regard our other overseas territory . it be not just the Government who be state that , but the people live in those overseas territory ; they be clear about the party politick around this issue . the United Kingdom will never enter arrangement under which the people of Gibraltar would pass under the sovereignty of another state against their freely and democratically express wish . we could not be clear about that . the unforced surrender of the Chagos island cast a long shadow , do it not ? be we seriously to believe that the timing of the Government of Spain ' s action in respect of Gibraltar have nothing to do with the unforced error that the Government have commit in recent day ? be it not the case that this Government will always put ideology , virtue signal and post - colonial guilt ahead of the defence and security of this country ? I be disappoint by the tone of the right hon . Gentleman ' s claim , particularly give his interest in historical and particularly military matter . I hope that he be aware , although perhaps he be not , that Gibraltar be cede by the Crown of Spain to the Crown of Great Britain under article 10 of the treaty of Utrecht in 1713 . that be in contrast to the history of BIOT , which be completely different . BIOT be establish by the UK ' s initiative as a colonial power , and the modality of that establishment have long be contest . the United Kingdom be steadfast in its commitment to Gibraltar , its people and its economy . the right hon . Gentleman should surely be aware of that . negotiation on Gibraltar ' s post - Brexit status be well advanced but be not without their hurdle . one such hurdle relate to the stationing of armed and uniformed spanish border officer at Gibraltar ' s air and seaport — a proposal that Gibraltarians understandably can not tolerate . can the Minister assure the House on Gibraltar Day that the wish of Gibraltarians will always be paramount in the ongoing negotiation ; that the Government have take the opportunity to remind all party that the life and livelihood of Gibraltarians and other should never be use as leverage in the negotiation , however inadvertently or locally apply they may be ; and that , for the sake of the people and community of Gibraltar and La L í nea , this will never be allow to happen again ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . first , he ask about whether the interest and concern of Gibraltarians will be paramount . they absolutely will be . we remain steadfast in our support for Gibraltar and will agree only to term that the Government of Gibraltar be content with in a deal . furthermore , the kind of leverage that he discuss would never be accept by the UK Government . one of the objective of have a treaty be precisely to remove border check between Spain and Gibraltar . the right hon . Lady talk about the negotiation , but the problem be that the Government do not have a great track record on negotiation . what do they get from the train driver negotiation but a lot of very cold pensioner ? what do they get from the negotiation on the Chagos island ? they appear to have give away sovereign territory and pay for the privilege . how can we trust this Government with the safety of Gibraltar ? the peculiar and unfounded analogy that those on the Conservative Benches appear to be attempt to draw have be reject by those live in those overseas territory , who can see this for what it be — party politicking , when we should instead be focus on the interest of those live in the overseas territory and our obligation to they . the Minister say that the spanish authority have assure the Government that the aggressive action take at the border be not centrally approve . do the Government accept that ? never mind the Chagos island : when the spanish authority attempt to insert themselves into Gibraltar , might they not be draw more succour from the fact that the British Government allow the EU to insert itself into the United Kingdom , put a border in the Irish sea and pass the law that govern much of the economy of part of the United Kingdom ? might the spanish authority not be conclude in consequence that the UK Government be a soft touch when it come to sovereignty ? I believe that the UK Government could not have be clear in our representation on this matter , include to the Spanish Government . on 11 October , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , contact , as I have mention , Minister Fernando Sampedro , his spanish counterpart . the UK ambassador to Spain call on the Spanish Ministry of the Interior as well to inquire about this change in approach . we have make it clear that his Majesty ' s Government will continue to work closely with HM Government of Gibraltar , include on border disruption planning , and we will do all that we can to ensure that , above all , the interest of Gibraltarians be front and centre . that be what be drive the Government response . do the Minister not agree that the reality be that a low - level border guard at the Gibraltarian - spanish border would not implement this without at least knowledge and tacit consent from Madrid . give that , how can she continue to negotiate with Spain if it continue this low - level aggression at the border ? it be important that we ensure that we negotiate to obtain the treaty that be need . it be that treaty — the EU - UK treaty — that will ultimately ensure that the interest of the people of Gibraltar be front and centre . the Government have make progress on those negotiation , and we will continue they in earnest , because it be only through they that , as I have say , ultimately the interest of Gibraltarians can be put first . surely , that be what the House should be support . the Minister have tell we that a local border official unilaterally impose the restriction . if that be the case , can the Minister outline exactly what guarantee the Government have receive from the spanish Government that such power will not be localise and that local official can not impose powerful restriction on Gibraltarians and spanish people seek to work in Gibraltar ? ensure the fluid movement of people across the Gibraltar - Spain land border be a top priority for the UK Government . border fluidity be important for share prosperity and for the security of citizen and business in the region . the UK Government and the Government of Gibraltar be commit to ensure that this continue , and it will continue to be critical for the representation that we will continue to make to the Government of Span . Afghan Special Forces Relocation Review I would like to update the House on the ongoing review of afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme application from former member of afghan specialist unit , include former member of Commando Force 333 and Afghan Task Force 444 , commonly know as the Triples . these Afghans work alongside UK armed force in Afghanistan , fight valiantly , with some die alongside our troop . it be for this reason I know that former Triples have the support of veteran of the conflict and the british public , as well as member on both side of the House . when we be in opposition , the Defence Secretary and I , along with my hon . friend the Minister for Security , as well as many sit and former member of the House — again , on a cross - party basis — advocate a review of decision make on ARAP application from the Triples . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , and those former and sit member of Parliament . I be keenly aware that an update on the Triples review be long overdue , so I thank colleague for their patience . although the review , which should not have be necessary in the first place , have take long than initially intend , I can confirm today that key issue have be identify and resolve , and the Government be now make important progress , with eligible former Triples and their family now be invite to relocate to the UK . the Triples review be announce by the previous Government on 1 February in response to my urgent question , after they accept that inconsistency exist in how decision on ARAP application from member of the Triples be be make . for clarity , official be currently review a cohort of ineligible decision take on application that contain credible evidence of link to former afghan specialist unit and in which Ministry of Defence caseworker previously refer case to officer in other part of the MOD , to other Departments and to governmental body under category 4 of the ARAP scheme , and which may have be affect by that inconsistent approach . the review be be carry out by staff who have not previously work on those application , include independent caseworker . approximately 2 , 000 such application be within scope of the review , and I can report that more than three quarter have so far be reassess . the previous Government commit to conclude the review within 12 week of launch , which be at the end of March . the review should have report before the general election , but clearly it do not . give the perilous situation in which many former Triples still find themselves , that be a source of deep regret and concern for I that I know many member will share . I have investigate the reason for the delay , which include the emergence in Government archive of additional information that official undertake the review discover and which require careful consideration . the nature of the relationship between the UK Government and the Triples evolve over the almost 20 year of UK military involvement in Afghanistan . that have lead to a complex set of historical record hold by different Departments . it have take time to piece that information together to give a fuller and more accurate picture . I be now able to provide a provisional update on what we have learn from the review . official have now confirm that there be evidence of payment from the UK Government to member of afghan specialist unit , include cf333 and atf444 , and that , for some individual , that demonstrate a direct employment relationship . that evidence go beyond previously identify top - up payment and reimbursement for operational expense , which do not in themselves demonstrate such an employment relationship . that , of course , run contrary to the position report to Parliament by the previous Government that no evidence of direct employment exist . my official have advise that some record analysis , which be to be carry out , should give we a more confident picture of the task at hand . I be satisfied , however , that what have come to light be sufficient to move forward with decision - making without delay under ARAP category 1 and 2 , as well as under category 4 where appropriate for the Triples . the review be still progress , and each application be consider on its own merit , but give the information that be available at the moment , we be expect an overturn rate of approximately 25 % . for the benefit of the House , those category permit ARAP eligibility to person include those who be directly employ in Afghanistan by a UK Government Department , or those who work in Afghanistan alongside a UK Government Department — in partnership with or closely support and assist that Department — and who be at risk because of that work . like I , member will be understandably anxious about the impact that the delay have have on the pace at which we can move to safety as many as possible of those who be eligible for relocation . many member will have concern for the welfare of former Triples who might be ARAP eligible and remain at risk . I share their deep frustration , but I hope that it be of some comfort to colleague across this House that if a decision be overturn as part of the review , applicant be inform immediately and the relocation process can then start . I have already begin sign eligible decision to relocate eligible former Triples to the UK , which be why this statement be necessary . furthermore , once they arrive in Pakistan and be confirm as ARAP eligible , we can offer they protection from deportation back to Afghanistan thank to the UK Government ' s ongoing and constructive dialogue with the Government of Pakistan . confirm that we have find evidence of direct employment for some of the Triples cohort be the opposite of the previous Government ' s position that no such direct employment exist . I would like to state that I have see no evidence suggest a conscious effort by the previous Administration or by any Minister to cause delay or indeed to mislead the House or the public on this matter . when Ministers in the previous Government provide statement to the House on the Triples , I believe that they do so in good faith , base upon the know information under consideration at that time . record keeping in the context of a long multinational operation be notoriously challenging , but that be no excuse . it be of course critical that we understand how and why that error occur . a failure to access and share the right digital record and challenge with information flow across departmental line have all lead to this significant body of information be overlook , with huge real - world implication . where corporate memory fail , so do process . as be all too often the case , it be those who need help the most who suffer . I be clear that this sort of system failure be not good enough . under my direction , official will now review and renew effort to improve information flow and process to ensure that this never happen again . I do not consider there to be malicious intent in this case , but it be an example of the problem that dog the afghan resettlement scheme under the previous Government . the Triples review should not have be need in the first place . it should not have take this long , and the system in place at the time that the initial decision be make should have be lead with more competence and grip , to ensure that these mistake be catch and manage more quickly . it be with some relief that I , as part of this new Government and as someone who champion the case for the Triples when in Opposition , can assure Members that we have unblocked progress and that eligible former Triples and their family will now rightfully receive the sanctuary that their work in support of our troop in Afghanistan deserve . I be confident that we will be able to relocate those eligible to safety and so that they can start a new life here in the UK . I will keep push this work forward at pace so that we can close this chapter in our history , know that we do right by those who stand shoulder to shoulder with the UK armed force in Afghanistan . I recognise the strong sense of feeling and support across the House on this matter and on afghan resettlement in general . the Defence Secretary and I will keep the House update on our approach to afghan resettlement . give the seriousness with which we take the Triples review in the MOD , I aim to report to the House when the review be complete . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement and for its tone . the debt of gratitude that we owe all those who bravely serve for , with or alongside our armed force in support of our mission in Afghanistan be so great that word can not do it justice . they work at great personal risk to make Afghanistan a well place , and it be right that we support they and continue to support they now . I be proud that , in addition to Operation Pitting , where we evacuate 15 , 000 people from Afghanistan in 2021 , the previous Government establish the afghan citizen resettlement scheme and the afghan relocation and assistance policy . I welcome that , as of 30 June , indefinite leave to remain have be grant to 12 , 874 individual across both scheme . the House will be aware that many former afghan specialist unit member have safely relocate to the UK , along with their family , through the ARAP scheme . however , I acknowledge the issue relate to application from a cohort of member of the Triples . as the House be aware , a review be announce in February by the then Minister for the Armed Forces , the former Member for Wells , my right hon . friend James Heappey . rightly , the Ministry of Defence have be review ineligible decision make against application from the Triples and other specialist unit , with an eye to any inconsistency . it be important that this work be do thoroughly and with great care . I welcome the Minister ' s update to the House today on the work of that review process . I also commend he for his courtesy in come to the House in person to make his statement . I listen very carefully to what the Minister say about the new information , include evidence that build a picture of direct employment by the UK Government of some Triples , and the overturning of decision , include the rate of overturning . we on the conservative Benches support this review process , which be initiate by James Heappey , be complete successfully . we want the correct decision make on these very important and highly sensitive application as speedily and fairly as possible . we hope to receive further update from his Majesty ' s Government . what course of action will the Minister take for the application of Triples where no evidence of employment be find ? more broadly , the House would welcome an update on the flow of those potentially eligible for ARAP from Afghanistan to Pakistan , and from Pakistan to the United Kingdom . could the hon . Gentleman outline what conversation he have have with the pakistani authority to ensure that ARAP - eligible afghan special force personnel be not evict from their country ? as ever , we also want the Government to ensure that those who arrive through the scheme receive the support they need , so that they can begin successfully rebuild their life in the United Kingdom . what will the impact be of the decision announce today on housing stock for ARAP applicant ? finally , we reiterate our call for the human right of all Afghans to be protect , and for the monitoring and documenting of discrimination and abuse commit by the Taliban . we again strongly condemn the Taliban ' s attack on the right of woman and girl . the international community must continue to press the Taliban to reverse course . I thank the shadow Minister for his support for the review and for the Triples in general . those who serve alongside our force be owe a debt of gratitude by all those in the UK . it be good that there be cross - party support for the Triples and for the contribution they make in support of our mission to Afghanistan . on the shadow Minister ' s question , there be an ongoing application process for ARAP , where people can apply and their eligibility be check . it be entirely possible that someone can qualify while still not have direct employment , but that be subject to the case - by - case process for the individual applicant . the review and the update I be present today do not mean that all triple be eligible , nor do it mean that no triple be eligible . it mean that where a direct employment relationship have be establish we will now take forward their application , whereas previously those application be refuse . we will continue to work with the Government of Pakistan . we be grateful for their work and support in facilitate the flow of eligible person from Afghanistan to Pakistan and then onwards to the United Kingdom . it be important that we continue that flow , so people who be currently at risk from the Taliban — it be important that we stress that they be at risk because of the Taliban ' s action — have the ability to get to sanctuary . we be do so at a reasonable pace to ensure that the entire flow can be deliver properly and sensibly . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for say what he do on rebuild life . there be , I think , enormous support from all party here for the Afghans who put their life at risk to support our troop to be settle in the UK and to start a new life . I be grateful to member from both side of the House who have support effort in their own constituency to do so . the new Government be work across government , with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and the Home Office . we will make further announcement when we can on transitional accommodation , to make sure the flow be appropriate through the United Kingdom . there will be some Members of Parliament who will have transitional accommodation in their constituency . I be very happy to speak to they to ensure that the integration and flow be as smooth as possible . I echo the word of the shadow Minister in relation to the appalling atrocity of the Taliban , not just in their attack on the right of woman and girl in Afghanistan , but in the way that they be pursue , and in many case deliberately attack , those people who serve alongside coalition force in Afghanistan . it be the action of the Taliban that put at risk those people who try to rebuild their own country and work for a well Afghanistan alongside our troop . that be why the ARAP scheme be so important , and why it enjoy cross - party support and will continue to do so . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome the statement by my hon . friend the Minister , who be a staunch advocate for the Triples when in opposition . we should never have need the review , because those individual bravely support we when we need their assistance for the betterment of Afghanistan . can he advise whether a member of the Triples whose case be previously reject under the ARAP scheme will be aware that their case be under review ? how will the Department and the Government go about make contact with those individual ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his support for ARAP and the Afghans involve . as part of the Afghan Triples review , 2 , 000 or so case be under consideration . where we discover that there have be a negative decision that should be overturn , we be contact individual immediately , but that do not mean that all triple be eligible . nor do it mean that everyone who serve as part of the afghan national army in support of its mission be eligible for relocation to the UK . additional route be available via the Home Office , but in the very particular case of the Triples , we aim to conclude the review at pace , contact all those who we now deem to be eligible base on the new evidence we have find . there be still some work to be do and a number of the most complex case be still to be deliver , so he will understand that I can not put a timetable on when that review will complete . however , we have make sort out the ARAP scheme one of our early priority as a Department and we will continue to deliver the change we need to make to ensure we can have confidence that all the decision make in relation to the Triples be the right decision . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the late Paddy Ashdown be one of the first to call on the UK Government to recognise that we have a moral obligation to support afghan interpreter and other who support we over a 20 - year period by provide they with a route to resettlement in the UK . More than three year on from our withdrawal from Afghanistan , it be troubling that those such as the Triples and their family be still wait for their chance to come to the UK and to safety . early this year , we welcome the review of those case , and we thank the Minister for his update today . these brave individual put their life on the line in support of our operation , and sadly many now face threat to their life for that reason . we must get they out and to the UK as quickly as possible . it be deeply alarming to hear the Minister ' s revelation about a direct employment relationship . tragically , during this period some of those brave Afghans have lose their life ; perhaps they would not have do so have this be uncover more quickly . can the Minister provide a figure for the number of Triples estimate to have be kill over the past three year ? give this new evidence , do he remain confident in the decision - make process for other individual whose ARAP application be reject ? do he or his Department plan to look at those again ? will he update we on what step he be take to ensure that these people be not only eligible for ARAP , but able to get to the UK safely ? have he speak to his counterpart in the region to that end ? will the Minister also look at the treatment of those who have come to the UK under the ARAP scheme , and will he consider widen the scope of the armed force covenant to include those who come to our aid during our operation in Afghanistan ? I be glad that the hon . Lady raise the issue of afghan interpreter , who sit outside the Triples in this regard . there be a great many afghan interpreter in Plymouth . as a constituency MP , I know that their contribution be widely recognise and value by the public . it be not possible for I to put a number on those who have lose their life or those who have be persecute , or whose family have be persecute , by the Taliban because of their involvement with coalition force and ally force in Afghanistan , but it make clear the reason why we call for the review . this be not an administrative mess that have no consequence , but a failure to deliver consistent standard that will have significant real - world implication for those who be desperately in need of support and sanctuary . we be confident that the wide ARAP scheme do not involve the same problem in relation to direct employment as those affect the Triples , although there be area that we be improve , as a new government . individual be assess on the basis of their individual circumstance , and in many instance where there be already an employment relationship with a Government Department , which might have be , for instance , the Department for International Development or the Ministry of Defence , that will already have be evidence . the difficulty arise because of the specialist nature of the Triples unit and the problem of establish that direct employment relationship . we continue to engage in dialogue with our friend in the Pakistani Government to ensure that we can go on deliver this programme as we intend . the hon . Lady may want to feed her view into our further work on the armed force covenant ahead of the armed force Bill , in which we will seek to put the covenant fully into law . I thank the Minister for the tone and intent of his statement , but it be not only the Triples who suffer as a result of the mistake of the last Government , who capitulate to the Taliban . will the Department also re - examine case such as that of Major General Mohammad Dawood Amin , whose case the MOD close owe to a correspondence error at its end , despite his service to the UK ? his brother , Abdul Basir Jaji , and I be still raise his case . he be a constituent of mine , and we be still seek his safety here in the UK . it be hard for I to talk about individual circumstance and individual case at the Dispatch Box , but I shall be happy to discuss the issue with the hon . Gentleman far . I very much welcome the announcement by the Minister . it be absolutely the right thing to be do . I be privileged to see at first hand the amazing work that the 333 and 444 unit do , side by side with british force . can the Minister assure the House that he will work closely with the Pakistani Government to ensure that none of those individual be expel or move on from Pakistan until we be able to look at their case ? would the Minister be able to find time to meet I in order to go through some individual case that be a bit too sensitive to talk about on the Floor of the House ? I be very happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss any case . on the conversation with the Pakistani Government , the main concern in relation to the Triples be about move they out of Afghanistan and into Pakistan in the first place . the agreement we have with the Pakistani Government mean that anyone who be be assess as part of the ARAP scheme will not be deport back to Afghanistan , which be really important , but there be still a requirement to make sure that we can relocate eligible individual and their immediate family to the UK in an appropriate and reasonable way . [ Official Report , 11 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 6wc . ] ( correction ) we be continue that work , and we be continue the dialogue with the Pakistani Government in relation to this issue . I thank the Minister for his work in this area over many year . my constituency and wide borough have play a key role in relocate a number of Afghans over many year . can the Minister confirm that he be have conversation across Government , include with local government , to ensure that when people be relocate to the UK , it be do in a join - up and supportive way ? I pay tribute to all those in my hon . friend ' s constituency who be take step to support our afghan friend . we owe they a debt of gratitude , and it be not just about word ; we need to make sure that we be live those word . I know that community , and especially veteran of the conflict , take that responsibility very seriously , and I reassure he that we do too . this new Government have already look at how we can work across department to ensure that we provide well value for money and a more join - up approach , and further announcement will be make in due course . I thank the Minister for his statement and for early sight of it , and I also thank he for the attention he have give to this matter . I pay tribute to colleague across the Chamber for their service in Afghanistan , and to those who have work on this issue . I pay particular tribute to the former Member of Parliament for Glasgow South , Stewart McDonald . he receive a letter just two week before the general election , at which he lose his seat , and he have be unable to take up this matter . the letter say that an error be identify in a response to a parliamentary question on 22 March 2024 , which be shocking . it say that there be ineligible decision and that assessment have be make by the Ministry of Defence — there be a bit of coverage during the election campaign that the Minister probably recall . will he please look into that as a matter of urgency ? we recognise the brutality of the Taliban regime . we also the recognise the value that the afghan refugee community bring to community across the length and breadth of the UK , include in Glasgow and Dundee . can the Minister speak to the Home Office about how we treat afghan refugee ? a lot of this go back to the fact that we have a refugee system with a presumption against , rather than in favour of , those who be flee the most brutal regime . Plymouth be a long way from Scotland , but I enjoy a cross - party friendship with Stewart McDonald . when it come to an issue like this , it be important that partisan divide do not affect our collective work , so I be very happy to pick up the issue that the hon . Gentleman mention in his question . will the Minister join I in thank our british personnel for the hard work they have do in process the entitled afghan personnel — for example , at the Nesscliffe Army camp in my constituency of Shrewsbury ? I be happy to join my hon . friend in do so . when we look at the Triples in particular , it be apparent that there have be real advocacy from serve and former member in highlight that there be inconsistency in the decision making in support of individual who put their life on the line in support of our mission . that apply not only to those who serve in Afghanistan ; I say an enormous thank to people who be support Afghans who relocate to the UK . I know that an awful lot of good work be take place , include in Shrewsbury . I recall that when the Minister and the Security Minister be campaign previously on behalf of the Triples , there be some doubt about the comprehensiveness of the record that show which people have actually serve in the way necessary to qualify to come to the United Kingdom . be the Minister absolutely satisfied that there be no question of any record be withhold — for example , by special force — that would help identify eligible former member of the Triples ? the review have not yet complete , but as part of it we be look at evidence amass across different Government Departments — where evidence of a direct employment relationship can be establish . this exclude top - up payment and operational payment , which sit outside that . the right hon . Gentleman will know that I be unable to comment on special force on the Floor of the House , but I can say that all part of his Majesty ' s Government that keep record of that be contribute to the review . I have to be cautious about this because of the ongoing Afghanistan inquiry , which be look at element of this , but I will happily pick this up separately with he . I welcome the work that my hon . friend the Minister do in opposition and be now put to good use with this review . we in this country owe a special obligation to those people who be engage with our armed force abroad , wherever they may be , and the failure that be come to light be really worrying . what lesson do he think we can learn from those failure ? I intend , at the conclusion of the Triples review , to be able to publish a full " lesson learn " summary look at where we need to get to , but there be a number of lesson . one point that have be reinforce in my mind be that there be enormous support for those who serve alongside our troop , but we do not see record keeping that match that type of personal connection and personal thank for those who serve . that be why , as part of this work , we have instruct that there should be change in process within the Ministry of Defence — and beyond that , in how we work with other Departments and part of hmg — to ensure that in future when we have a direct relationship with people , that information be properly store and accessible . the Minister talk about the parallel independent inquiry on the deployment of special force to Afghanistan between 2010 and 2013 . former member of UK special force tell the BBC ' s " Panorama " early this year that they believe their veto power on application by Afghans claim to have serve with the Triples represent a conflict of interest . this conflict of interest might not have arise have there be good parliamentary oversight of UK special force . will the Government consider extend the scrutiny power of the Intelligence and Security Committee so that it have oversight of UK special force ? I understand where the hon . Gentleman be try to get to with his question . it be difficult for I to comment on special force , for reason that he will appreciate . I be also really keen to see the output of the Afghanistan inquiry and to understand what lesson Lord Haddon - Cave can identify from that . that might be the moment when that conversation be more appropriate , but it be not one that I can have now . I praise my hon . friend for his pursuit of justice with regard to the Triples , and not only in opposition but since he have enter power . on lesson learn , one of the tenet behind a number of the Bills that the Government have pursue — in relation to the Hillsborough inquiry , for example — be a duty of candour . might that be consider as part of the Afghanistan inquiry as a whole ? the Government certainly intend to bring forward the Hillsborough Bill , which I hope will enjoy cross - party support , particularly in relation to a duty of candour . what we have discover with the Triples review — I await the final report — be more a failure to organise and record properly , rather than a deliberate attempt to disrupt and not share information . it be that essential plumbing that fail , but also the grip and leadership of the programme , and we need to learn from this to ensure that it never happen again and that all those people who have an eligible case get the support and sanctuary that they need . I understand that , as a result of the ARAP programme , there will now be a new temporary centre to receive family at Beckingham camp and training range in my constituency . this fairly isolated site , consist of Nissen hut , be normally use by cadet and personnel practise on the range . how long will the individual family be expect to stay in these Nissen hut ? what money will be give to local authority to ensure that people can be properly care for while they be there ? and how long do the Minister anticipate this temporary centre be open before it be return to military use ? I send a letter to the hon . Lady on this issue , which I be happy to pick up directly outside the Chamber . however , I reassure she that our intention be to use transitional facility , such as the camp she mention , only on a temporary basis . I be happy to go into further detail with she about how long we intend to use the site , but we will also be work with local authority to ensure that the correct level of funding be provide to support former afghan personnel and their family while they be temporarily house there . it be important to note that , from the feedback we have receive from other location , many community have welcome these family and want to support they , in order to thank they for their work in support of our troop . I be very happy to meet she to discuss this far . have serve in the conflict in Afghanistan , I know how vital the work of unit such as 333 and 444 be in support our troop . be work currently under way to consider the other specialist unit that support our troop ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for her service . it be important that , on both side of the House , we have voice of member who have serve and understand the serious consequence of our decision . at this stage , the Triples review be look at 333 and 444 . however , we hope to get to other specialist unit that we believe may have a similar direct employment relationship . I will be able to report back on that once the review have conclude . a constituent of mine who serve with british force in Kabul come to see I early this year about a friend who have appeal his fail ARAP application . this individual be an afghan national who be contract by the british military in the early 2000 . he work as an interpreter , include with the british embassy . I can not say much more publicly , for fear of put his safety at risk . he have already be label a collaborator , and his father be torture and murder by the Taliban . his life and that of his child be at risk . unfortunately , the Minister ' s conservative predecessor , to whom I write in April , do not respond to my request for his personal intervention in the case . will the Minister meet I to discuss this case and to see what he can do ? I thank the hon . Lady for her approach . this case be a perfect illustration of why it be important to get these decision right . it be not possible to relocate every single person who support the UK mission in Afghanistan , but there be an opportunity to appeal reject application . I would be very happy to meet she to discuss the case far , and to take it forward . I welcome the tone and substance of the Minister ' s statement . few of we think 20 year ago that we would still be mop up after Operations Telic and Herrick . do he agree that the long shadow of discretionary warfare , particularly in the civil domain , should act as a powerful incentive for any Government when consider future military conflict ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question , and for his work as a Minister in the previous Government . as part of the new Government ' s reset , we have commission Lord Robertson to undertake the strategic defence review , which will consider the threat we face . although it be certainly true that state - on - state threat be more prominent than they have ever be , there be still non - state threat to the United Kingdom , which create an enormous challenge not only in the military space but in the civil security space . the strategic defence review will try to work out the good shape . we have invite submission from all party , as well as from individual . I commend the Minister . we discuss this issue last week , and I appreciate the opportunity to have that chat in advance of today ' s statement . I also welcome that he say " we do right by those who stand shoulder to shoulder with the UK armed force " . I , like the shadow Minister and Members on both side of the House , have always speak up for these people . with that in mind , I welcome what be happen . a review be important to support those who work tirelessly alongside british force . I bring the previous Minister ' s attention to a guy I meet in Pakistan in September 2022 . this man serve alongside afghan force , and I pursue his application on three occasion . I be very frustrated by where the process end up , so I be pleased to see that today we can do something to help this gentleman . my constituency can offer he and his family a house , a job and school place for his child . we just need to make sure we have the process and the datum to bring he and his family to my Strangford constituency . it would not be a statement without the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution . I thank he for his kind offer . it be important that , whatever the plumbing , the process see the relocation of those who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan and give they so much support . it be important that support be available to they in all nation of the United Kingdom . I know that an enormous amount of work be be do by local authority and the devolved administration to ensure that Afghans have wraparound support after be relocate into their area . I hope the review will conclude relatively soon , and I will then be in a position to make further announcement . in the meantime , I be grateful for the support from both side of the House for those who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan . I will report back to the House in due course . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Home Affairs Committee of Session 2023 - 24 , Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) draft Bill , HC 1359 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Bill have the wholehearte support of the Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition and , I hope , the whole House . some of those who campaign hard for it have join we in Parliament for this evening ' s debate . seven and a half year ago , on the evening of 22 May 2017 , thousand of people go to Manchester Arena for a music concert . many of those in attendance be child and teenager . they be there to see Ariana Grande , their favourite pop star , and to dance and sing along to her song . they be there to soak up the atmosphere with friend and family . but as the event draw to a close and people start to leave , terror strike . scene of happiness give way to shock and trauma , and what have be an enjoyable spring evening be transform into a nightmare . More than 1 , 000 people be injure , and 22 of they never come home — nine of those be teenager . today , we remember they all . their life be brutally cut short in an act of pure evil . we also think of the victim of other terrorist attack . they will never be forget . their family and friend , leave to pick up the piece and somehow go on , be in our heart and prayer . we think also of all those who survive this and other similarly abhorrent act , the survivor of all terror attack , who live with the scar , whether physical or psychological . we think of the first responder who be on the frontline when the bad happen , bravely work to protect the public and to save life , and we think of the police and security and intelligence agency who work night and day to prevent attack and keep we all safe . we give they our thank . in the aftermath of the Manchester Arena attack , our country do what it always do when confront with terrorism : we come together . as the city grieve , we stand shoulder to shoulder with those affect and offer our friendship and support . in the darkness come ray of light — those who be determined to support each other and ensure that more be do to save young life in future . that spirit be embody by Figen Murray , who be with we in the Public Gallery today . it be because of Figen that we be all here to talk about this legislation . figen ' s son , Martyn Hett , be among those kill in the attack . I can not imagine Figen ' s pain and I be in awe of her courage . to suffer such a horrendous loss and somehow find the strength to fight for change that will help other be heroic . despite her grief , she have campaign , and when ask this morning why she do so , she say that she look at her child ' s ashe on the bookshelf and she do not want other family to have to face the same . figen and campaigner have fight for this law . this Bill have be a long time come , but she have never give up . I be sure the whole House will agree wheneb ; normal ; j I say to Figen , " you be a true inspiration . officially , we be debate the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill but in essence and in spirit , this be ' martyn ' s law ' . " the first responsibility of any Government be to keep the public safe . that is , and will always be , our no . 1 priority . we will not let terrorist or extremist destroy or distort our way of life . that be why Labour commit in our manifesto to strengthen the security of public event and venue , why the Prime Minister make a commitment to Figen Murray and why we have move at speed to introduce the Bill in a matter of week after the general election . early work be do on the Bill under the last Government and I be glad to say that it have cross - party support — I hope that , when it come to security matter , the House will always be prepare to come together . the Manchester Arena inquiry make 169 public recommendation . volume 1 focus on the security of the arena and set out the need for a protect duty in primary legislation . the chair , Sir John Saunders , whom I thank for all the work he do , conclude : " do nothing be , in my view , not an option . equally , the Protect Duty must not be so prescriptive as to prevent people enjoy a normal life . " that encapsulate the purpose behind the Bill and behind so much of what we do when counter terrorism and extremism : ensure that proper measure be take to keep we safe ; ensure that people can get on with their life and make it possible for people to keep enjoy all the thing they do ; and protection of life — protection of our way of life . since March 2017 , MI5 and the police have together disrupt 43 late - stage plot and there have be 15 domestic terror attack . we know from those incident that the public can be target at a wide range of public venue and space . we know too that the terror threat have become less predictable and potential attack hard to detect and investigate . that be why everyone need to be part of the measure we take to keep people safe — include those who run premise and event , who need to know what they can do and what they should be do to keep people safe . I be loath to interrupt the Home Secretary ; she be make a passionate and clear case for why the Bill be necessary , and the SNP will be support she . be she aware of the concern from the live music sector , which will be most burden and most impact by this particular Bill ? be she in constant contact with the live music sector , and can she offer any reassurance on the number of issue that I know it have raise with she ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and I know there will be many detailed discussion on that in Committee . since the original draft legislation be publish , we have seek to ensure that there be extensive consultation with business , with premise and with venue of all size . that be why there be a different approach , which I will come on to , for different size of venue , ensure that the response that premise need to make be proportionate and recognise the detailed individual circumstance , which will be very different from one venue and one organisation to another . I will come to that point and that detail . the legislation require for the first time that those responsible for certain premise and event consider terrorist risk and how they would respond to an attack . large premise and event will need to take step to reduce their vulnerability to terrorist attack . for premise to fall within the scope of the Bill , it must be reasonable to expect that there may be 200 or more individual present on those premise at the same time . in addition , the premise must be use for one or more of the activity specify in the Bill — for example , entertainment or leisure . for those premise that be in scope , a tiere approach have be establish , with requirement vary . event and premise where it be reasonably expect that 800 or more people may be present at once will generally be in the enhance tier , and any other premise — those where 200 to 800 people may be present — will be in the standard tier . those responsible for premise in the standard tier will be require to notify the regulator and have in place public protection procedure to reduce the risk of harm to individual in the event of an act of terrorism . it be important that those procedure be design to be very simple and low cost . there will be no requirement to put in place physical measure in the standard tier . there be four category of procedure : evacuation , which relate to the process of get people safely out of the premise ; invacuation , for example where we need to keep people safe within premise ; lockdown , if a premise need to be keep secure from an attacker who be try to get in ; and communication — simply communicate to all those involve , include staff and the public who might be at risk . in recognition of the potentially great impact of an attack on large premise , those in the enhance tier will be subject to additional requirement or public protection measure : monitor for risk and indicator ; security measure for individual , which might mean search and screening process ; physical safety measure , where relevant , such as safety glass ; and secure information to make it hard for people to plan , prepare or execute act of terrorism . may I just ask , give that the atrocity in the Manchester Arena be cause by a terrorist come in with explosive in a very prominent backpack , how the measure be propose would have affect that scenario ? we be be clear that it be not for the Government to specify precise arrangement for every venue . I do not think it would be appropriate to do so . arrangement will vary accord to the event . we know that many large venue already have procedure to search bag or conduct those sort of check . we be clear that this need to be do proportionately , and accord to the size of the venue and the arrangement in place . if I may pursue that point a little far , if what we be really talk about be explosion be carry out by suicide bomber among large number of people , the one thing that all those atrocity have in common be that an explosive device , which be invariably bulky , have to be carry in . be that not the central point that everybody ought to be address ? the right hon . Gentleman be right . that be why one of the thing we would expect be that premise have proper search measure , and particularly to ensure that there be security measure around the movement of individual , but as well as the search that might take place at an event itself , safety measure may also involve have monitor procedure in place — for example , if the same individual have be back , circle a venue several time , and be behave in a suspicious or inappropriate way . make sure that staff be train to recognise those kind of risk and indicator may be an important part of keep the venue safe . rise — rise — I will give way first to my hon . friend and then I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman . I thank the Home Secretary for introduce this important legislation , which mean so much to those who be affect in Manchester and to those affect on 3 June 2017 in the London bridge and Borough market attack . my question be on measure risk and take measure in advance to try to protect people . will venue be able to draw down on terror insurance where they have it ? will the Government support an awareness campaign on the need to have terror insurance and support ? where risk assessment highlight a physical barrier or a change to an external area , how will the Bill support venue and local authority to work together to resolve concern ? barrier to secure literal barrier around Borough market have include the design and who be go to pay ; there have be lot of practical difficulty in design and instal the permanent barrier to protect all those who still use the amazing borough market in my constituency . as my hon . friend will know , the prevention of future death report from the London bridge and Borough market inquest call for clarity of responsibility for venue operator regard protective security . address that point be one reason that we be bring forward this legislation . my hon . friend be also right that , in practice , security and safety measure require people to work together and require partnership among they , the venue , local council and other . it be not for this legislation to set out the decision for insurance company ; its whole purpose be to make venue safe and more resilient to the kind of pressure and attack they might face . rise — I say I would give way to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . I will then come to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . the right hon . Lady make two profoundly important point . the first be on the metamorphosis of terrorism and how we need to be persistently clear about how we respond to it in the event of the change we have see . the second be about how the whole House come together on these matter ; as the right hon . Lady know , I have have an interest in this subject for some time and I entirely endorse what she say . the particular point that I want to make be about anticipate event . the right hon . Lady have speak a great deal about how we deal with event in the moment , as it be — the training of staff be critical , as she say — but of course we could be talk about a timed device that be plant long before a large event take place . how do she see the legislation have an impact on a plot that be make well in advance , as I be sure the one in Manchester be ? the right hon . Member make an important point and I thank he for his long - stand interest in the issue . those responsible for premise and event in the enhance tier will be require to provide the regulator with a document that set out all the public protection measure and procedure they have , and how they expect those process to reduce their vulnerability and risk of harm from terrorism . the first category be about monitor for risk and indicator . that might include monitor prevention measure — for example , if there have be some kind of security breach a week before or some day before — or assess what the risk might be . the third measure be about physical safety , which might include the physical arrangement that can prevent somebody from be able to take action in advance of a major event to create that risk and threat . there be way of have those check in place . the Bill ensure that there be a new regulator to oversee compliance through a new function of the Security Industry Authority . we expect the SIA ' s primary role to be support and advise business to implement the legislation ' s requirement . even though the SIA will have a suite of power and sanction , include the power to issue fine for non - compliance or to shut down event in the enhance tier , in fact those sanction be primarily civil . I reassure the House that those responsible for premise and event will be give time to understand and that the SIA ' s approach will be to support venue to adopt the new measure . a range of factor will be take into account so that penalty will be use only to address the most serious or repeat failing . I thank the Secretary of State for her contribution and for set the scene so well . we will support the Government ' s legislation because it be the right thing to do . the Secretary of State know very well that we in Northern Ireland have suffer a campaign last 30 - plus year from the IRA , where shopkeeper and those involve in business take step against firebomb , against people bomb house and against car bomb , which result in a large loss of life . have there be the opportunity to consider what be do in Northern Ireland in a voluntary capacity to combat such thing ? I be ever mindful that it be perhaps not necessary to have legislation that hand out fine . everyone want to do the right thing and if that be the case , it be about how we encourage people to do that . lesson can be learn from back home . I will speak later and highlight some of those thing , but I think it be important that we take all the knowledge from everywhere in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the hon . member be right that there have be considerable work by many venue and premise in Northern Ireland to respond to the kind of threat and risk that , sadly , community have face through the year . he may also be interested to know that in Manchester a voluntary version of Martyn ' s law be introduce after the appalling Manchester Arena attack ; training and support be provide for venue and many business be keen to sign up . that have be very well support and the view in Manchester be that it have be hugely successful . the experience of the hon . member for Strangford in Northern Ireland and the experience in Manchester be that , too often , there have be a tragic reason as to why organisation have respond in that way . we need to make sure those same lesson be learn right across the country . that be why we be set out this comprehensive legislation , so we be not in a situation where the big venue only respond when something terrible happen — when it be too late and life have be lose . we be commit to work extensively with the business community during the passage and roll - out of the Bill . as well as the ongoing programme of direct engagement , we have also update ProtectUK to make it easy for business and other to navigate and understand the support information on the Bill . we be acutely conscious in introduce this legislation of the need to get the proper balance and detail right . that be why , as hon . and right hon . member will know , the Bill ' s proposal have be subject to extensive development , and the draft version of the legislation be subject to pre - legislative scrutiny under the previous Government . Most crucially , we have raise the threshold for be in scope from 100 to 200 individual . we recognise the need for a location - specific approach because the procedure in one place may not apply to another . we have also ensure that in both tier appropriate procedure and measure be require only " so far as be reasonably practicable " . those word be crucial to recognise the importance of protect life and our way of life . with Figen here , we always keep in our mind that terrible day in Manchester seven and a half year ago . the young victim be an eight - year - old girl , Saffie - Rose Roussos . her headteacher ask the question afterwards : " how do you tell 276 child that their friend have be murder " ? that be a question we all ask : how can we explain how anyone could have target the event that day , with young child enjoy their love of music and dancing ? but that be the point . when terrorist want to cause maximum damage — when they want to destroy our way of life — of course they seek out crowd , but they also seek out innocence , happiness and joy . that be why our task be not just to take measure to keep people safe but to work tirelessly to ensure that people can get on and enjoy their life , and that we never let terrorist , extremist and criminal win . let I finish by quote Figen . she say : " it ' s time to get this do . " I could not put it well . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for bring the Bill forward with such pace and alacrity . I pay tribute to Figen Murray for her tireless campaigning ; I know that she , her husband and other campaigner join we in the Chamber . it be also appropriate that we pay tribute to her son , Martyn Hett , who be murder , alongside 21 other innocent victim , while go to the Manchester Arena in 2017 to watch a concert . it be of course in that tragic context that we find ourselves consider this legislation . as the Home Secretary say , the Bill enjoy cross - party support , and the opposition support its aim and aspiration . I be grateful to she for recognise at the Dispatch Box the work that be do , particularly in pre - legislative scrutiny , to ensure that the Bill have the good chance of navigate its parliamentary stage and conclude in a manner that achieve the dual purpose of keep people safe while support the music and entertainment industry , of which we be so proud . when I meet Ms Murray ahead of the general election , I say , perhaps rashly , that I be confident that , irrespective of the outcome of the election , the Bill would be bring forward . I be glad that the Home Secretary do not put I in an awkward position have make such a commitment . I feel confident at the time that I would be prove right , and I be pleased that , on this one occasion thus far , she and her Ministers have do so . martyn ' s law be in both our party ' manifesto at the last general election , and it be important that this measured and well think through piece of legislation be properly scrutinise legislation and make it through the House . as the Home Secretary say , the threat picture be complex , evolve and enduring , and terrorist choose to attack a broad range of location . as she also state , they choose to attack in a manner and in location that maximise the detrimental impact on our way of life . the protection of our way of life be in many way just as important as the protection of life itself . as there be a range of potential target , it be right that the Bill propose that a range of premise be well protect and ready to respond in the event of a terrorist attack . at the same time , the Government have to think very carefully when regulate in this way , to ensure that we recognise that we can not regulate away all risk . we should regulate when and where it provide great safety to the public , ensure that we do not create a false sense of security or impose a cost so high that venue be unable to comply and therefore fail to reduce the risk . it be appropriate that we look at the impact assessment produce by the Government , and recognise that the new regulation will affect an estimate 155 , 000 small business with a venue capacity of between 200 and 799 people . that will impose an average cost on they of around £ 330 a year . the regulation will also impact around 24 , 000 large venue with a capacity of 800 and above , impose an average cost of around £ 5 , 000 each year . when I be the Home Secretary , I look at way of reduce the burden on the industry as much as possible , while ensure that those with the broad shoulder , as it be , could bear the large load , protect small venue . I therefore welcome the light - touch approach that have be put forward , particularly in the standard tier . while in government , we also look at the case for raise the standard threshold beyond 200 to around 300 . I see in the Bill that a capacity of 200 be settle on . clearly , as the Bill go through the scrutiny process , question will be ask about whether 200 , 300 , or a low or high figure be appropriate . it be right that those question be ask , and member across the House should feel at liberty to probe the Government on the rationale , because this be about balance , and ensure that people be safe and venue stay viable . in recognition of the important but novel approach that be be take , what thought have the Government give to a feedback process whereby the implementation could be assess and threshold adjust if need be ? the Government might consider implement the enhance tier in a stage process and learn lesson before implement the standard tier fully . I would certainly be more than happy to discuss that with the Home Secretary across the Dispatch Box , in Committee , or elsewhere . turn to the establishment of the new regulator , I welcome the Government ' s intention that the regulatory function of Martyn ' s law will be deliver as a new function of the Security Industry Authority , but what assurance have the right hon . Lady have from the SIA regard its readiness for this ? as I say , include the standard tier , we be look at nearly 200 , 000 venue . we want to ensure that the legislation be effective , and not just on the statute book gather dust . I be mindful of my right hon . friend ' s early point about how small business can cope with the new requirement . part of that involve increase their staff ' s awareness and understanding of the threat . the training that the Home Secretary speak about will be vital in that respect . do my right hon . friend agree that one way of minimise cost will be for umbrella organisation to co - ordinate some of that training , in organisation big and small , to improve staff understanding of the risk and how it can be counter ? my right hon . friend make an important point . give that so much legislation of this nature enjoy cross - party support , there be opportunity to discuss the most effective way of implement our universal desire to get good and effective , but not overly onerous , legislation on the book . member may feel a bit reticent about ask challenge question for fear of come across as seek to undermine the work of legislation , but I know from the conversation that he and I have have that the opposite be true here . there be opportunity to do as he suggest , for example with the requirement for the enhance tier venue to get their house in order . that could be do in close co - ordination with local venue in the standard tier , and the relevant training could be do hand in hand without the full financial , time or other burden fall on small venue . that kind of detail could make a fundamentally sound Bill increasingly effective . we need to look at what else can be do to ensure that the plan for premise can not be use against they , and that if those plan be disclose , they can not be utilise by would - be attacker as part of their preparation . of course , there be a balance act between have good practice make public — something that would benefit small venue — and ensure that we do not give advantage to those who would do harm . I also ask that minister ensure that the regulator be supportive and constructive . the Home Secretary make that point , and it be important to say it at the Dispatch Box , but make sure that it be really embed in the organisation be key . the regulator ' s desire should be to help venue to stay safe and viable , rather than look for opportunity to rush in with fine power , which could either put business out of business or introduce such a fear of fine that they decide to take the easy option and close their door . that be not something that member on either side of the House want . organisation will , of course , need time to adapt and familiarise themselves with the new guidance . on that point , I note that the new legislation be unlikely to be implement for around 24 month after Royal Assent . if that be the case , will the Home Secretary commit to engage with the industry via the Federation of Small Businesses , live music Industry Venues and Entertainment , the Greater London Authority and other body to ensure that we do not have a one - size - fit - all approach that might , perhaps inadvertently , squeeze sensible change that could increase compliance without increase risk ? what mitigation or exemption will the Home Secretary consider to protect voluntary and community venue , such as church or place of worship , particularly those that have already say that the new regulation will be burdensome for they ? it be vital to keep the threshold and guidance under review as the legislation be implement . fear of regulation often incentivise owner and organiser to take the most cautious point of view rather than the most appropriate one , and that would be counterproductive . as the Home Secretary say , terror threat be constantly evolve , and we must evolve with they . in do so , we must be alive to the threat that new regulation and protection have on our everyday life — on gathering , on place of worship and on business — and we should keep proportionality at the forefront of our mind . she have make a commitment to do that , and I be grateful that she have do so . in that spirit , I offer the opposition ' s support in ensure that the legislation pass promptly through the House and be implement in the good form possible , and that we do what we can to ensure that tragedy such as we see in the Manchester Arena never happen again . it be a privilege to speak today in support of this vital Bill . I start by join the Home Secretary and the shadow Home Secretary in pay tribute to the bravery and phenomenal campaigning of Figen Murray . to so selflessly and bravely campaign for the safety of other after suffer such unimaginable trauma be truly inspirational . it be the reason this legislation be before the House today , and it be the reason life will be save when this Bill become law . that should lead to an enormous sense of pride for she and for all the campaigner involve . as a Greater Manchester Member of Parliament , I find this legislation especially poignant , come as it do after the Manchester Arena attack in 2017 , which unite Manchester , our region and our country in grief . twenty - two people die that night , and many more be leave with lifelong physical and psychological trauma . first and foremost , they suffer from an act of indescribable evil and cowardice from people who seek to destroy what bind we and our way of life . they also suffer as a result of security arrangement at Manchester Arena that be not proportional to the severe threat pose by terrorism . the Manchester Arena inquiry carry out by Sir John Saunders find multiple miss opportunity for detect and stop the bomber , or , at the very least , minimise the number of casualty that he be able to inflict . Sir John speak of serious shortcoming from the operator of the arena , the company task with the concert security and the British Transport Police , include a lack of preparedness and a lack of communication between security employee regard suspicious behaviour . that contribute to the attacker be able to do covert reconnaissance on the arena undetected and find a CCTV blind spot . underpin those miss opportunity be a failure to treat the terror threat with the severity it deserve . at that point , the terror threat face the country be class as severe , but now it be class as substantial , with an attack sadly likely . indeed , we know that since the Manchester Arena bombing , 43 terror plot on UK venue have be foil at a late stage . Figen Murray have say : " we ' ve be lucky 43 time but they only have to be lucky once . " that be why there be such an urgent need for this overdue Bill . I be proud that the Government be treat this issue as the priority that it deserve to be . after all , our most basic responsibility in this place be to do everything we can to ensure the safety and security of our resident . the Prime Minister promise he would act , and he have do so just month into his Administration . I thank he and the Home Office team for their swift action to deliver we to this stage . the striking thing for I about this legislation be how common - sense it all be . we would be hard pressed to find a constituent who disagree that all public premise should take reasonably practical measure to mitigate the impact of a terrorist plot . similarly , it feel like a significant oversight that there be no previous mandate set out who be responsible for implement these measure , as there will be should this Bill become law . these be common - sense proposal to deal with serious issue — something every Bill in this place seek to do , but do not always achieve . that be why it have such strong support in all part of the House . I note the supportive comment of the head of counter - terrorism policing , Matt Jukes , who talk of " the opportunity that this Bill bring to drive great consistency " among business and community , and " to take simple low or no - cost step that will save life " . I appreciate that concern have be express about the burden that will be place on business , particularly small music venue that be still recover from the covid - 19 pandemic , but with the support of a dedicated regulator to help they and a period of 24 month to prepare , I do not believe that any business be face obstacle that can not be overcome . I thank the Home Secretary for set out the Government ' s tiere approach , and I know that much more will be say about support for business as the Bill progress through the House . for the Bill to be as effective as possible , we need collaboration between Government , business and campaigner . we have a duty to make it as effective as possible , because while it can not remove the hurt or pain of those who suffer a loss in the Manchester Arena attack or ease the pain of those who be live with their injury , it can forever reduce the likelihood of such an event happen again , and it will save life . that be why I be proud to support the Bill . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as this House reflect on the measure we must take to protect our nation , it be essential that — as other have already do — we remember the tragedy of 22 May 2017 , when the Manchester Arena bombing claim 22 life in a shocking act of terror . those of we who be from Greater Manchester all know someone who be there that night , whether they be watch the concert , pick up their daughter , or respond as a member of our emergency service . among the 22 who be lose be Martyn Hett , a young man from Stockport who be full of life , boundless energy and a personality that light up every room he enter . Martyn be 29 year old , and for anyone who know he — as many of my constituent do — he be a symbol of joy and creativity . his love for life , humour , and unique way of connect with people leave a lasting impression on so many Stopfordians . Martyn ' s mum Figen endure a loss that no parent should ever have to face . however , Figen ' s response to that unimaginable pain have be one of remarkable strength and resolve . she have become a tireless advocate for change and an inspiration to we all , and she have lead the campaign for Martyn ' s law in memory of her son . figen ' s effort have not go unnoticed : over the year , she have work with policymaker , security expert and community to push for these change , with the goal of ensure no other family have to experience what she and her family have have to . her determination have turn a personal tragedy into a powerful force for good . she have take her message to government of different shade , to public forum and to school , remind we of the urgent need for well safety measure in public space . Martyn ' s law be a testament to her courage . I must also pay tribute to the people of Greater Manchester , who come together in an extraordinary display of solidarity , resilience and compassion . in the immediate aftermath of the attack , our city region stand tall : taxi driver offer free ride to those strand , resident open their home to concertgoer in need , and local business provide food and shelter to stranger . Greater Manchester be a city region know for its gumption and its strength , and that night , we show the world what true unity look like . in the day that follow , St Ann ' s Square become a place of mourning , reflection and community , with thousand of people gather there — as well as across the region — to pay tribute to the victim , light candle and lay flower . I remember gather in Romiley Precinct , because it be important to be with our neighbour and to feel part of our community . it be not just a moment of mourning , but a really powerful statement that our city region would not be break by terror . the mancunian way speak to that endure spirit — a refusal to be define by fear , but instead by our unity and resolve . it be evident in the tireless work of the emergency service , who respond with bravery and professionalism on that terrible night , and in the action of the countless volunteer who come forward offer what they could to help . the attack seek to sow fear and division , but it only bring we close together and remind we of what truly make Greater Manchester great : its people . as we consider the legislation before we today , we must remember the 22 life lose and the family forever change , as well as the resilience of the people of Greater Manchester . we must honour the memory of Martyn and the work of Figen , whose campaign for Martyn ' s law be not just a call for well security , but a testament to the power of love and community in the face of terror . this legislation be intend to ensure that business and organisation be well prepared to deal with , and respond to , terror - relate threat . the tragic Arena attack expose deficiency in the security of public venue . this Bill aim to address those gap by impose a legal duty on the owner and operator of public venue to assess the risk of terror - relate security threat and implement proportionate security measure . attention should be draw to the party responsible for comply with the regulation set out in the Bill , which be the owner , the operator or the leaseholder of the venue . the Bill apply to any premise that , at time , will host 200 or more people , range from nightclub and sport ground to leisure centre , school and university . a key distinction should be make , and be make , between the three category to which the Bill apply : enhance duty premise , which may expect 800 attendee from time to time ; qualifying event , which be any event that will have public access and may host 800 or more attendee ; and standard duty premise , which may host at least 200 people at time . I welcome the new threshold for standard duty premise of 200 individual , which largely address the concern raise by Action with Communities in Rural England and will reduce the burden on the organiser and operator of thousand of community - run venue , such as village hall , community hall and church hall . such venue might be use for community group , exercise class and wedding in rural area where the terrorist threat be usually low . however , some concern remain . the Bill grant the Home Secretary the power to lower the 200 - person threshold to 100 . such a change should require a strong specific justification relate to a clear and widespread threat , and in such case less burdensome alternative such as increase police engagement with small venue should be consider . we urge the Government to examine carefully whether the benefit of the Bill be proportional to the potential cost for small venue and their operator . furthermore , the Bill contain little scope to train venue operator in their new responsibility , leave they prepare the require procedure with — in our view — not enough support . if the legislation be to be as effective as possible , the Government will need to address those concern . at this stage , the Liberal Democrats support Martyn ' s law and look forward to further constructive scrutiny as it progress through Parliament . it represent a step forward in ensure the safety of our public space . the devastating attack at the Arena in 2017 serve as a stark reminder of the vulnerability that exist and the heavy price we pay when they be exploit . we owe it to the victim and their family , and to every citizen , to learn from that tragedy and take measure to prevent it from happen again . by strengthen the security of our venue and enhance our preparedness , we honour the memory of all those lose , and we demonstrate our commitment to protect the public from such senseless act of terror . Greater Manchester be my home . in a recent podcast , Sir Ian McKellen say : " if you ever arrive in Manchester , if you ' re lucky enough to be able to afford the train fare , you come down the step at Piccadilly , and if you ' re lucky enough to be able to afford a taxi , you get in the back of one , and the taxi driver — usually a man , but not always — say , ' where you go to , love ? ' " he go on to say : " where grown man call stranger ' love ' . I think if we all do that , it would be a rather well place , wouldn ' t it ? " that be the Greater Manchester I recognise and be proud of . although I be not a native , I have come to know the warm , welcome compassion of its people . this be the Greater Manchester that be shake to its core by the unspeakable devastation cause by the Arena bombing — an act so far remove from the value of the place I now call home . I join the Home Secretary in commend the action Manchester take , effectively enact Martyn ' s law follow that dreadful attack . I know that member on all side of the House who have visit our region , even for a brief moment , will recognise the warmth and compassion of which I speak . this Bill , Martyn ' s law , be an important step towards ensure that no other family , no other mother and , indeed , no other parent have to endure the same pain and loss that Figen Murray and so many other have face . everyone in Greater Manchester and across the country should feel safe when they attend public venue , whether they be at a local theatre production , a concert or a football match , or simply enjoy a day out , and they should know that their child will be safe too . in my part of Greater Manchester , Bolton North East , our vibrant art sector be the heartbeat of the community . local venue such as the Albert Halls and the Octagon theatre , which will fall under the standard tier of this legislation , play a vital role in bring people together and provide space where family can celebrate creativity and culture . for small venue such as these , it be crucial that we strike the right balance , ensure that both safety and culture can thrive side by side . I would like to end by pay tribute to Figen and her campaign team , who have work tirelessly to keep this Bill on the agenda . I would also like to express my sincere thank to my right hon . friend the Home Secretary , the entire Home Office team and the Prime Minister for waste no time in bring Martyn ' s law to the House within the first 100 day of this Government , and I look forward to support the Bill through the House . I think it be right that at this moment we all pause to remember those who have lose their life to act of terrorism , and not just in recent year but across many decade . I pay particular tribute to Figen Murray , Martyn Hett ' s mother , whose role in this legislation have be recognise today by the whole House . other family have lose love one to terrorism , but she have single - handedly champion Martyn ' s law . I have have the great privilege of spend time with Figen , and with so many other family , and it be quite something , frankly , to listen to they speak not just of their concern , heartbreak and suffering , but of their determined resolve to seek justice for their love one , and to steer this legislation across different political party and bring it before Parliament . I do not have enough word to pay tribute to Figen and so many other , but I can say that the tragedy that have affect their life have lead they to stand tall . there be other individual such as Travis Frain , who have make such a big impact by stand up and give voice to the victim of these atrocity , and they all deserve the great recognition and respect . they have show a great deal of courage in deal with the pain , suffering and trauma that they have experience , and in work towards make our country and our community safe , and protect other citizen from the suffering and hardship that they themselves have face . it be a testament to their campaign that Martyn ' s law have consistently attract cross - party support . I want to thank everyone in the House , include those on both Front Benches and the Home Affairs Committee , which examine the draft Bill , as well as everyone who have work on progress Martyn ' s law from 2021 onwards . that be when the first consultation take place , for 18 week . it provide some startling insight into the public ' s attitude towards the protection of venue and the step they want their government to advance . so many people have be involve in this legislation , but I do want to pay tribute to a former Security Minister who work on this with I in the Home Office . James Brokenshire , who be a diligent Security Minister , lead this work . this month mark the third anniversary of his passing , and he will be in our thought . of course , our thought and prayer must also be with the family of Sir David Amess , whose murder take place three year ago tomorrow . we look at his plaque in the same way that we look at the plaque in memory of Jo Cox . they and their family be victim of some of the atrocity that have take place in our country . I thank the right hon . member for her tribute to David Amess and Jo Cox , and I join she in those tribute . David ' s family will be very much in our heart as we remember he tomorrow , as will Jo and all of her family . the right hon . member be right to pay tribute to they , and I thank she for do so . I thank the Home Secretary for her comment . debate such as this concentrate all our mind and thought on how we must work together . it be so sad , but many of the Members here have speak about Sir David and Jo , and in fact great security measure have then be enact . indeed , I pay tribute to Mr Speaker , staff member and everyone who have step up to do so . however , there be a threat here , which be the suffering , the loss and the pain , and as have be say in the debate thus far , the Manchester Arena tragedy will live with so many of we for so long . I set up the inquiry when I be Home Secretary , and many of the finding of the important work of Sir John Saunders be absolutely shocking . the family have to sit through and participate in the inquiry , and they be retraumatise to a certain extent while give evidence and listen to some of the failing , which be deeply painful . this be very much about the lesson we can learn collectively , and not just across Government but as a society . this Bill will always be in memory of Martyn , of course , but it be also in memory of the many other affect . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for set up the inquiry , but those recommendation do not stop with this legislation . while it be important that we welcome this in the spirit that have imbue the debate so far , the recommendation on co - ordination and some of the failure in communication between different agency — those recommendation be mention by the hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) — do need to be act on . notwithstanding the spirit that I have describe , it be important that that scrutiny continue and that we learn the lesson to which she have allude . I thank my right hon . friend for his comment . he will know very well from his own time in government , give the role in which he serve , that we have be privy to the detail of some awful plan , plot and issue that could have inflict a lot of problem on our country . we must always have these policy under review . I want to pay tribute to the work of our security and intelligence service . their work behind the scene be just outstanding , and we be bless in so many way with the level of scrutiny , the work they do and the resource that come from Government . I want to pay tribute to the team that set up the counter - terrorism operation centre — a new organisation establish by the previous Government during the last Parliament — which focus on the integrated approach of our security service for a lot of the operational work that take place . we should not just pay tribute to it , but recognise that this work always have to be keep under review , because the threat change . the nature of the threat evolve and change constantly and , as we know , terrorism be not just domestic but take place outside this country . the Bill have have extensive consideration and consultation . it have take into account the recommendation and detail contain in report and inquest from the Manchester Arena attack , and from the attack at London bridge and here in Westminster , and other incident , as be absolutely right . during my time at the Home Office , we give a commitment to introduce a protect duty , which be welcome across the House and by campaigner and many business , and that consultation be undertake in 2021 . we have to consult and consider carefully how good to implement that and improve public safety protection while be mindful of the many impact on business to which the House have allude — the need for those impact to be proportionate and for burden to be minimise — particularly on small business and venue , and contemplate the role and responsibility of the regulator . the Home Secretary touch on some of those point . since then , the draft Bill be publish last year and be consider by the Home Affairs Committee , and this year the standard tier consultation take place . the result be publish last month with the Bill and , importantly , the provision have be build on and some change make . it be right that the detail have be scrutinise . it be important that we recognise the patience of the campaigner who want the Bill to come forward much early , but we need to get the technicality and the detail right . there be no point in bring forward legislation if we can not operationalise it . the Home Secretary have speak about the role of the SIA . we need to consider how the SIA will be equip adequately . it be resource heavily during the covid pandemic , with new duty and responsibility , but again it be the practicality that be important , because the Bill bring an estimate 179 , 000 premise under the scope of the requirement of Martyn ' s law , with a distinction in place — some have a standard duty , as we have hear from the Secretary of State . it be right that the provision be proportionate to the scale and size of premise and business , and that there be a link to the risk , but we do not want to see issue with the enforceability of the provision , so I want to ask the Home Secretary and her team some question in that regard . the Home Secretary touch on the whole issue around the SIA , the regulator and the potential to enforce civil penalty , but we need to understand the practicality , because she also highlight that we do not want to put additional burden on business through the work that have take place already . if business be not step up — not learn from past mistake and the recommendation of other inquiry — how will that be pick up ? penalty be one thing , but they should be the last resort ; we need these institution and organisation to put public safety and the practicality first . I hope that the Minister respond to the debate will talk about the impact on local authority , include local council and town parish . what assurance can be give about the work under way with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to support local authority to meet these obligation , include through training , and consider the implication , practicality and scope ? will there be financial support for they ? what support will be give to school and educational institution on their standard duty ? give the exist measure that some premise have in place to ensure compliance with fire safety , health and safety , and crime prevention requirement , will the Minister look carefully at the interplay between those responsibility so that the guidance be not complicated but consistent and comprehensive , and that we assist premise in minimise cost burden while allow they to work in an integrate way ? one big lesson from Manchester , and Sir John ' s inquiry and the reporting — we know this , as it be in the public domain — be that there be a lack of integration between the various service work together . that absolutely have to be recognise . we must ensure there be a golden thread run through all the service locally , so they know how to integrate and work together . the impact assessment give an estimate of the overall cost of the standard duty and the enhance duty over a significant period , but there be again the question of the practicality : what do this really mean for the many organisation and institution that will be involve ? I seek clarity from the Minister about the role of plan policy in deliver Martyn ' s law . this be important ; with change in planning policy , we might be able to make change to the way in which building be shape and design , and to what local authority take on board . we might be able to ensure that the relevant authority receive advice and guidance from the police on how to design out some of these issue and put in safety measure , and bring in developer to introduce good design and new concept , future - proof many institution , building and development . I will touch on the nature of terror incident and the premise that need to be consider , because we need procedure to examine how good to prevent incident from take place and place from become target . monitoring and surveillance be second nature to our institution , but there be also the question of how premise host event should respond to a particular threat or even anticipate an incident — what kind of process and procedure will such premise be undertake ? perhaps the Home Secretary or the Minister could talk a bit about some of the discussion they have have with key sector . live venue and event be discuss early , but have they be consult not just on how they will design these incident out but on the practical measure — the kind of work that will be undertake or the drill that will be put in place ? there be a lot of lesson to learn just from recent incident . we see what happen at London bridge in 2017 , which differ from the Finsbury Park attack , the Manchester Arena attack and the Reading Forbury Gardens attack as well . it be important that the SIA , the regulator and the Government work to ensure that those responsible for premise and event have the full duty , and can go into their own planning and preparation in the right way . I will mention one particular inquiry that be take place , as it be in the news today : the inquiry into the 2018 Novichok poisoning in Salisbury of Dawn Sturgess , chair by Lord Hughes of Ombersley . the Government will naturally be consider the harm and damage that that cause , because the action of a hostile state lead to the most atrocious and appalling death of innocent people in our country . it remind we all that incident come in all shape and guise , and that we need to find well way to protect the public and put public safety first . I conclude by ask the Minister about support for victim of terrorism . the Home Office have be conduct an internal review into the support package available to victim of terrorism , and consider the introduction of a national day of service and tribute to victim of terrorism . Travis Frain , whom the ministerial team will be familiar with and know of , have be a long - stand and deeply passionate campaigner for that . minister prior to the election be look at this matter as well , so we would welcome even a small update on the Government ' s think regard support for victim of terrorism and on some of the work that Travis be lead . I note from the programme motion that the Government be keen for the Bill to complete its Committee stage by mid - November . to ensure it progress quickly , I hope that member across both Houses will ask the right question and work in a practical way with the industry — we have not even touch on the insurance industry but I be sure that will all be cover in Committee — and look at how we can start provide public protection and safety soon rather than later . I say this in my concluding remark , particularly recognise that Figen Murray and other be here today watch the debate , because we owe it to they , to their family and to so many who have suffer and who have be wait in anticipation for this legislation . we owe it to they to enact these measure in a practical way : to give they and the public confidence , as they look to we all to drive this legislation forward with positive outcome , soon rather than later . it be a pleasure to follow the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . I wish to make it clear at the start of my speech that I very much welcome this Bill , which mean so much to so many , in Manchester in particular , for the reason outline by the Home Secretary , but also those affect by other terror attack in our country , include my own community which be attack on 3 June 2017 at London bridge and Borough market . the Bill be target at protect people from further incident , primarily at large entertainment venue . this be very relevant to my constituency . many former printwork in Rotherhithe be now live music venue ; member may be familiar with the Ministry of Sound at Elephant and Castle ; and of course many will also be aware of the Young Vic . they could all be bring into the scope , and there be thousand of other small hospitality venue that could also be bring into scope for different level of requirement under this legislation . as have already be point out , we be at substantial risk of further attack , and the people whose motive be to attack we and our way of life sadly choose area where there be multiple innocent civilian and there be likely to be an international impact , which make constituency and community such as mine more vulnerable , because we have one of London ' s busy train station . we have part of a world heritage site at Tower bridge . we have million of visitor at Tate Modern and the Globe theatre , and the Shard itself , which be all sadly target for those who seek to disrupt or destroy our way of life . I need this Bill to be effective to ensure that my constituent can go about their business and way of life routinely , with minimal fear . my community do receive a visit from the then Prime Minister Theresa May after the attack in 2017 , which be welcome , but the level of support from former government be not sufficient . the strength to rebuild the community and the footfall at Borough market and more widely come from the local community , and our community be still indebted to the former dean of Southwark cathedral , Andrew Nunn — now retire — who lead and shape some of the work with his team . there be also the work of the Borough market trust and other , from individual trader who operate as very small business right through to large restaurant and trader across London . many other local business play their part , include Barclays bank on Borough High Street , which provide facility for those lock out of their own premise . News UK , which do not often get praise from this party , provide a generous voucher scheme for hundred of its employee to ensure that the market be receive more business soon , for which trader be incredibly grateful . I be almost apologetic in raise this matter , because it sound niche , but one issue that concern I be the security barrier and the bollard . seven year on , there have be many issue in try to ensure sufficient external protection for venue . that come back to the nature of the attack we see . Manchester be very different from London bridge and Borough market . many of the more recent terror attack we have see have involve vehicle and knife and blade . vehicle protection be an issue for many venue that will be cover by the legislation , but they will not be able to act alone in instal protective measure . clause 11 and 12 of the previous draft Bill require risk assessment but do not confer sufficient requirement on all agency involve with responsibility for preparedness to prevent an attack . that be my reading , and I hope that Ministers will address that as the Bill go forward . the dispute resolution system set out in clause 18 to 20 of that document cover use of a premise and venue , but not share space or communal area . for example , in Southwark we have the entrance and exit from Transport for London road , Southwark Council road and communal share space partly own by the Borough market trust . where there be a mixture of owner and responsibility , there need to be a clear mean of deliver the change require to make the legislation effective . that need to be look at . do the Government need to work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to improve the planning process so that where measure be identify , perhaps in a risk assessment as in clause 11 and 12 of the previous draft Bill , there could be a fast - track process for get they implement through planning ? there be other plan for this government to improve the planning system , and that would be a sensible measure to take forward . then we have the measure on review preparedness . I be grateful to Pool Reinsurance , which be helpful after the attack in talk through the change that the Government make to terror insurance , which I support at the time . one of the issue it raise be whether there be sufficient coverage . it seem reasonable additionally to require those with duty under the provision as set out in clause 11 and 12 of the previous draft Bill to have terror insurance . that insurance could be integral to protection and preparedness , and a means of draw down on insurance system could be write into the Bill . when it come to security measure , I do not think that the largesse , generosity or imagination of an individual firm should determine whether they will allow venue to draw down on their insurance . there need to be a minimum requirement . to give a practical example , when lot of Henry Moore piece be be steal across London and elsewhere and melt down , Southwark council say , " we have well get rid of our " , but actually , we work instead with the insurer to build some protective measure , such as a plinth alarm , deep planter with concrete basis and CCTV . those be all pay for by the insurer , rather than target at the resident who have this amazing piece in their backyard . again , this should not be about the imagination of an individual insurer . perhaps training could be provide by Pool Reinsurance or another actor , or cover by they . Pool Reinsurance could provide an annual review of preparedness . the number of venue with protection could be report back to Parliament or put in the public domain at no cost to the Home Office , because Pool Re provide something along similar line elsewhere . I hope Ministers will examine that . the former Home Secretary also mention local authority and licensing . I agree that the previous Government load additional responsibility with no new resource on to many council , include my own , with no recourse to public fund be a very significant one . this be another area where I have a concern — I think the Government ' s intent be clear , but can full cost recovery be available for local authority that be have to assess ? some authority , such as mine , will have more responsibility in deliver that , and local taxpayer should not bear the cost of provide protective measure to defend everyone who visit those venue . it should be a matter of full cost recovery . I hope that that will be make clear in the Bill . that be say , I support this legislation . I hope the issue I have briefly reference will be address as the legislation progress . we all come here to make a difference . this legislation will not just make a difference , but save life , and it will weaken the chance of those who seek to attack we and undermine our way of life . I be glad it be be welcome by everyone across the House today . rise — order . you must bob if you wish to contribute . I call Rachel Gilmour to make her maiden speech . thank you for call I to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . before I do , may I commend Figen Murray and her family and friend for the excellent campaign they have continue , completely selflessly ? I be sure it will save the life of hundred , if not thousand , of people . they be a great example to we all . I confess to be unusually nervous — as indeed I should be — as I address my honourable colleague across the House for the first time as the first Member of Parliament for Tiverton and Minehead . I would like to begin by thank the two previous mps for Tiverton and Minehead . my fellow Liberal Democrat , my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , have happily be return by his constituent as their MP , where he will continue to be a hard - work local champion . I be also grateful for the 23 year of service that my predecessor in Bridgwater and West Somerset , Ian Liddell - Grainger , in his own inimitable style , give to my constituent in that part of my constituency . he be a doting grandfather , who will now have more time to spend with his grandchild . I also want to thank Rebecca Pow , the former Member for Taunton Deane , who be a prolific gardener — vegetable be a particular favourite , I understand — and whose constituency encompass some of the village and town now in Tiverton and Minehead , as well as the constituency of Taunton and Wellington . as a new Member of Parliament , this place , even though it bear a resemblance to my alma mater , be a difficult and different environment to master . I know that I speak for all new member when I thank all member of staff of the parliamentary estate , from Doorkeepers to police officer to cater and clean staff . I thank they all for their warm welcome , and for their tolerance and patience with the numerous question they answer with humour and understanding . thank you all . since September last year , my team , know as " Team Terrific and the Stalwarts " , have knock on nearly 31 , 000 door , deliver hundred of thousand of leaflet , letter and survey , and speak to over 12 , 000 resident . I know what matter to the people of Tiverton and Minehead because I have ask they . I be raise in Somerset and have spend most of my adult life in Devon , from Holcombe Rogus via Hemyock to Bampton in the Tiverton and Minehead constituency . my husband and I choose to raise our family in Devon . in fact , all four of our child be bear Devonians . our eld son , Henry and Tom , be bear in the old hospital in Tiverton . it be my sincere intention to support the NHS and social care system in Tiverton and Minehead by keep our local hospital open in Minehead , Tiverton and Williton , and by support all our GP surgery . ours be a very rural area and the need to keep local hospital open be especially press give limited transport link and a high - than - average elderly population . as mine be a rural and often disconnected constituency , transport improvement be one of my key priority . with that at the forefront of my mind , I have convene a meeting with Peninsula Transport , the body that oversee all public transport in Devon and Somerset . along with my transport adviser , David Northey , who have a deep history in this area as a former head of strategic planning at Great Western Railway , I have be hard at work for my constituent , put together a transport plan and highlight the challenge and solution for rail and bus service across Tiverton and Minehead . Minehead train station desperately need link to the main line at Taunton ; I know that my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) would agree . we need also to secure the no . 25 and no . 28 bus service in the north of the constituency and look carefully at rural bus route to service the village of Exmoor , such as Exford , Withypool and Winsford , along with local town , particularly Wiveliscombe . those will be key part of that new plan for the local area . poor public transport provision create a particular barrier to schoolchildren and student in Tiverton and Minehead . some have no bus to take they to school , no way to walk to school or no way to cycle to get there . other than the small a - level provision at West Somerset college , there be no — I repeat , no — sixth - form provision in my constituency . student have to travel to Exeter , Taunton or Bridgwater if they wish to pursue their study . that limit their aspiration and ability to succeed . shockingly , West Somerset rank 324th out of 324 on the social mobility index , and such transport problem explain some of why that be . however , teacher and head of primary school across the constituency and of secondary school in Tiverton , Minehead , Williton and Uffculme do not lack aspiration for their pupil . they be work daily to improve access to well education . that include campaign to have facility worthy of 21st - century educational standard . the first letter I write , within day of get elect on 5 July , be to our new Secretary of State for Education , ask for a meeting to discuss the dire state of Tiverton high school . nearly 25 year ago — I repeat , 25 year ago — Tiverton high school be promise a new build . the previous Labour Government put it on their priority list . the last Conservative Government sit on their hand and do nothing . the school be deem by the Environment Agency to be a " danger of death " from flooding . there be asbestos in the sport hall , and child be be teach in dining and communal area . it have capacity for 1 , 300 pupil but need capacity for 1 , 800 . give the pledge make by our new Prime Minister and his commitment to school , I know that I will get a fair hearing from the Secretary of State for Education . I hope that she will agree to meet a delegation of staff , parent and child from Tiverton high school in the near future . community play a crucial role in Tiverton and Minehead . there be wonderful organisation provide support and help , from community food bank to support group for carer , to Rotary club , conservation group and the environmental network with which I work to monitor and prevent the pollution in our river and on our beach . those organisation all make Tiverton and Minehead the wonderful , beautiful , special part of the UK that it be . when they meet to discuss important community issue , the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill will ensure that they be safe . however , my party have previously have concern about the impact on small - scale venue ; I be delighted to hear today that the approach be more light touch than expect . as a former director of the National Farmers Union , I have a deep passion for and understanding of my local farming community , who be spread across the constituency and face hard challenge than they have for generation . that be thank to the disastrous Brexit deal foist upon they by the previous Conservative Government . in the face of climate change , increase rainfall , dry summer and the rise cost of energy , they battle on . to they I say , " I will always back my farming community . let ' s work together to secure a future for farming across Exmoor , West Somerset and mid - Devon . come to my monthly farmer ’ surgery so that I can represent my farming community to the very good of my ability . " become an MP have be my ambition since I be 17 , when I join the Liberal party at school . it have take I four attempt over 43 year of campaigning , but now that dream have become a reality . without my family , it would have be impossible . as a professional woman , I have break several glass ceiling thank to my inspirational grandmother , Mabel and Jesse , who offer wise counsel ; to Miss Whaite , now Mrs Michael Limb , my latin teacher , who keep I sane at boarding school ; and especially to my mother , who have always believe in I . Mummy , thank you — I love you . I be so proud to have she here today with my husband and our eld son in the Gallery , so that she can see this moment . yesterday I celebrate my three - score - year birthday ; I say to my conservative colleague , whose math skill in government be find somewhat want , that that be 60 . I share my birthday with Margaret Hilda Thatcher , who must be one of the good recruiting agent for the liberal and labour party . I be proud that I share nothing with her other than a birthday . my passion for politic flow from my compassion for my fellow human being — whoever and wherever they be , irrespective of background , race , religion , colour , gender , sexuality or ability . it be impossible to mention everyone and everything in one ' s maiden speech , but if there be one thing that I wish my constituent to know it be this : they be my world . I feel humble and honour to have be elect to represent Tiverton and Minehead in Parliament . they can help I do my job by come to my surgery at Tiverton and Minehead , Wiveliscombe and on Exmoor , by ring my office and my staff , and by write we letter and email . I be at their service . fabulous at 60 ! Mabel , Jesse and your mum will be very proud . now we have another maiden speech . I call Matt Bishop . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) and a privilege to speak to the Chamber today as the new hon . member for Forest of Dean . first , I extend my good wish to my predecessor , Mark Harper , for his 19 year of service to Forest of Dean . a few year ago , when I be chair of governor at St White ' s primary school in Cinderford , Mark help secure funding for a new school building . we work together to finally get the school what it so badly need , after 40 year of it crumble . his help be instrumental during that time , and I appreciate all that he do for we . I be the second Labour MP and only the third ever MP to represent the Forest of Dean constituency since its recreation in 1997 . I agree wholeheartedly with what both my predecessor , Mark and the great Diana Organ , state in their maiden speech : that Forest of Dean really be the most beautiful constituency in the UK . I know that many other have also make that claim over the last year , but how many can boast that their constituency landscape have grace the screen of iconic show and film ? Puzzlewood , for example , have serve as the stunning backdrop for many show , include " Doctor who " and even a " Star Wars " movie . that bring the beauty of the forest to the big screen , allow individual from all over the world an insight into the place that I call home . I invite all right hon . and hon . member to visit the forest , where they will witness not only its natural beauty but a collection of individual and group who understand the importance of community . we have inspire organisation such as the Forest Voluntary Action Forum , which support many community - lead project , shape with and for local people , and the Wilderness Centre , which provide exceptional day and residential visit for school from the primary , secondary and independent sector . that community spirit be also evident through the action of individual . just a few week ago , we experience some localise flooding after the intense rainfall ; as the constituency be rural , many area , road and house become almost impossible to reach . during the flood , I see local farmer in place such as Westbury - on - severn and Sedbury come to people ' s rescue without hesitation , pick people up in their tractor and get they home safely . I might have be one of the lucky one who receive that help . it be this spirit of solidarity that inspire I to move to the forest 17 year ago — the place where my wife grow up , and the place where we choose to raise our child , surround by a community full of kind - hearte individual . however , certain issue persist that require urgent attention . many resident experience isolation because of inadequate public transport and a lack of community centre . there be a shortage of bus service , with limited route and poorly maintain road . with only 5 % of the constituency in build - up area , substantially improve public transport be vital for relationship to thrive and to combat the isolation that many resident feel . I welcome my constituent ' campaign to turn the site of the former Dilke Memorial hospital into a mental health and wellbeing centre . campaign for a dedicated space within the community highlight the drive and determination of my constituent to ensure that no one be leave behind . finally , throughout my career in public service I have be expose to the great challenge in our society , and I appreciate the vital role that national Government , local council , and the community play in address those issue . I serve for many year as a police officer , include four year here in London for the Metropolitan police . on 7 July 2005 , I be one of the first officer on the scene at the Tavistock Square bus bombing , where I see at first hand the horror , destruction and chaos cause by such despicable act of terror . I be also strike by the many admirable example of courage and determination demonstrate by the emergency service , injure victim and member of the public . perhaps now it be only right that we take a second to remember and pay tribute to all those who lose their life or be injure during the attack on our country on 7 July 2005 . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my time as a police officer have show I the importance of ensure that our resident feel safe , and I be acutely aware that the security of our community , locally and nationally , must be a priority for the Government . that be why I choose this debate to make my maiden speech . I wholeheartedly support Martyn ' s law , and I be pleased to see it implement so early in this Labour Government . education be another particularly prominent issue in my constituency . as a former governor in multiple school and as a local councillor , I have see how national policy directly affect our local education system , which have long suffer as a result of funding decision make over the past 14 year . during a recent visit to Forest high school in Cinderford , I be alarm by the state of the school building , which be crumble before my eye . it be no exaggeration to say that classroom be flood , ceiling be collapse , and the flooring be fall to piece . we can have the good teacher in the world , but without a basic safe building , how can they provide the education that they want to provide ? our child deserve well , and they deserve well now . they deserve school that inspire learning and growth , not school that be collapse . in recent year , the state of our school have be forget . I , along with the new Labour Government , will not allow this to continue . there be a song about the Forest of Dean which my constituent will know , call " the Land between two Rivers " , write by a constituent , Dick Brice . sing it ! later . the song pretty much sum up our constituency . for too long those river , the Wye and Severn , have suffer from pollution and sewage issue . the community in Newnham on Severn , Lydbrook , Lydney and many more village and town have rally to demand action from the Government , and I be committed to bring their voice to Parliament to reinvigorate the ecosystem and protect our wildlife . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be proud to stand before you as a representative of the people of the Forest of Dean . this position be a responsibility I take seriously , and I aim to serve with the same dedication and spirit of co - operation that I observe in our community . I join other in the House in pay tribute to Figen Murray and her fellow campaigner , who have be tireless advocate for positive change . I also congratulate two new member on their maiden speech . I can tell the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) that we could all do with a team of terrific stalwart . I be sure that Mabel and Jesse will both be look down , incredibly proud of her comment . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) for his service as a police officer and the courage that he show in carry out his duty . there can be no doubt in anyone ' s mind about the importance of today ' s debate . the horrific event that take place at Manchester Arena be forever etch in our collective memory . my thought be with all those affect by those and other terrorist attack that we have sadly witness in recent year . when we be shake by such egregious event , that reinforce the fact that the first responsibility of any Government , and of all of we on the green Benches , be the protection and safety of our citizen . it be incumbent on we to take action to prevent these tragic moment in history from repeat themselves . that be why I believe that the Bill be necessary to bring peace of mind and reassurance , and to enable we to stand up to those who seek to harm we and tear our community apart . notwithstanding my overarching support for the Bill , I note the significant requirement it place on the event , entertainment , and hospitality industry . many in these industry be still recover from the legacy of the pandemic . the financial requirement for compliance with the Bill add further pressure . I therefore invite the Minister to consider offer financial and logistical support , especially to small organisation that struggle to predict footfall . that be particularly pertinent to those premise that experience seasonal peak and trough over the course of the year . as the Bill currently stand , those local establishment will still fall under qualifying premise , as define in clause 2 ( 2 ) ( c ) , and will be require to put in extra measure at personal cost . terrorist attack evolve at a rapid pace — much fast , as we have see recently , than the time it take for legislation to pass through the House . I therefore ask the Minister , first , what consideration have be give to accommodate that ? secondly , will there be regular review of the threat and countermeasure through the govern body ? finally , in its current state , the Bill do not accommodate organisation run by volunteer and temporary staff . large place of worship and sporting venue rely on the good will of volunteer and pay agency staff at peak time . I therefore ask the Minister to engage with such organisation , to find a training arrangement that suit their capability as well as meet the threshold of safety and security seek in the Bill . those query aside , I welcome the introduction of the Bill . first , I thank Figen Murray for her tireless campaign . I wish to speak in favour of the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , which represent a vital step forward in our collective responsibility to keep people safe . the tragic event in Manchester remind we all too clearly of the need for practical measure to safeguard our public space and of our vulnerability . the Bill provide a framework to ensure that venue and business take appropriate step to protect the public from the threat of terrorism , and I fully support its aim . the need for the Bill be clear . terrorism remain a real and persistent threat , and we have see in Manchester , Birmingham and London that terrorism and terrorist be blind to the loss of human life . public venue be often the target of those who seek to harm we . the Bill will ensure that public space be well equip to manage potential risk , reduce the likelihood of attack and mitigate their impact if they do occur . we have a duty to protect our constituent , whether they be attend a religious service , a wedding or a concert . about 2 , 000 business in Dudley could be affect by the legislation , base on vat and paye registration . it be our responsibility to ensure that those place be not only secure but support in take the necessary step to keep their door open and their customer safe . the Bill place a duty on venue and business to assess their risk and take reasonable step to mitigate they . it be not a one - size - fit - all approach : the security measure will be proportionate to the size and type of venue . large venue such as stadium will need to implement more comprehensive protection , while small one can adopt simple measure — I agree with that . by provide clear guidance and support , the Bill will contribute to the collective safety of our community . that say , we must be mindful of the challenge that it may pose , particularly for small and medium - sized enterprise , charity and place of worship . in Dudley , such institution be the backbone of the community , provide support and a safe space for people to gather . many of they be concerned about the potential cost and operational demand that the Bill may bring . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to a risk - base approach to ensure that small organisation be not require to implement the same level of security as large one , and I be encourage by the idea of provide tailor guidance and practical support . I hope that that will be far develop as the Bill progress . the Bill be an important and necessary step in protect our community from the threat of terrorism . it strike the right balance between provide security and ensure that the measure be practical and appropriate . I look forward to work with colleague in the House and with the Government to ensure that the Bill deliver to our community the safety and security that they so desperately deserve , and provide the necessary step for those who have be affect . we have hear from many member who have huge venue in their constituency , include the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) , who mention Ministry of Sound . I take this opportunity to add a voice for rural venue such as those in my constituency . clearly , the Bill be necessary to protect the safety of the million across the country who enjoy event . the legislation need extremely careful planning and scrutiny to ensure that small venue be not put at risk by additional red tape . in rural constituency such as North Cornwall , small to medium event be truly the lifeblood that bring together far - flung community , and have be for generation . under clause 4 , thousand of community and volunteer - run venue will be designate responsible for any failure and be liable to face strict penalty . I be invite to , and often visit , small venue around Cornwall , and I see at first hand the joy , spirit and positivity that they inject into their surround community . I be glad that the hon . member mention rural community , because the stain of terror reach across the United Kingdom . one of the victim of the Ariana Grande attack be Eilidh MacLeod , a 14 - year - old schoolgirl from the isle of Barra , whose mother , like many other parent in hear the report , feel the ground shake and hear the blast that take the life of Eilidh and 22 other . the response in Barra have be to set up a musical trust in Eilidh ' s name to allow other young people to reach their potential . that response , as well as that of the Murray family in their tremendous campaign , show that terrorism will not divide we , and our collective response here show that although it may cast a shadow on the heart and life of those leave behind , it will not diminish we . I completely agree that terrorism should never divide we — what an excellent phrase . I fear that if we be not realistic and proportionate with the detail of the Bill , cherish and beloved venue in my constituency , such the Hayward cider farm , the Royal Cornwall show , countless pub — include the St Mabyn Inn , and the Golden Lion in Port Isaac — and the BEAT in Bodmin , as well as community centre , could take a hit , especially in the summer , when thousand enjoy the outdoors . venue with lot of outdoor space can easily reach the 200 - capacity threshold . of course , the safety and security of event - goer should always be keep at the top of our priority when plan large - scale event , but we must not look overlook the unrealistic necessity for thousand of small venue to comply with strict restriction , face fine in the thousand of pound for non - compliance . clause 13 give the SIA the power to issue compliance notice if it have reasonable ground to suspect that a regulation have be contravene . do my hon . friend agree that , as well as training , there be a need to consider the regulation around the SIA ? over the past five year the SIA have grant licence to a staggering 95 , 000 door supervisor who have not be resident in the UK for five year , so we can not even know their history or criminal record . do he agree that personnel work in that field not only need to be well train , but must have the confidence of the public ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . I hope that small venue be give the opportunity to remedy contravention before any notice be issue . likewise , clause 14 provide for restriction notice on non - compliant venue . the Secretary of State say in her remark that penalty will be issue only to repeat offender . on that point , I hope that there will be mechanism and training to prevent such repeat offence . I also have concern about the penalty set out in clause 18 , which provide for fine of up to £ 10 , 000 on standard duty premise . as I have say , that could finish off some of our small venue if they do not receive proper training or the opportunity to remedy such a contravention . on the protection of small venue , I be concern about the provision that allow the Home Secretary to drop the capacity threshold from 200 to 100 . the circumstance in which that can be do should be tightly define . the way a venue ' s capacity be define will also need careful thought . a community hall might be able to take 200 people in theory , but in practice that might be extremely rare . I be pleased to see that the capacity figure have be increase to 200 from the initial 100 , which I welcome , and I will watch the progress of that provision keenly in Committee to ensure that it remain . provide that those protection be put in place , the liberal Democrats will of course support this crucial Bill . safety and security must always be paramount . I will end my remark with a quote from Brendan Cox , the husband of the late Jo Cox MP and founder of Survivors against Terror : " survivor of terror attack aren ' t look for sympathy . they be look for change that make it less likely that other will endure what they have . " I be pleased to support the Bill and to see support for it across the House . as so many have do , I begin by pay tribute to Figen Murray and the campaigner for Martyn ' s law . respond to such tragedy by try to make the world a well place deserve our high admiration . I be pleased that the Government have introduce this important legislation so quickly in the parliamentary session . the threat that the country face be " substantial . " that mean that it be complex , endure and evolve , so it be right that in response we adapt and update the legislation we use to prevent and deal with terror . the terror threat consistently change . we use to worry about attack on national infrastructure or iconic site ; now we worry about they at concert and in bar . that be why it be critical that we strengthen security at public event . I be a representative of Edinburgh , a city know for put on numerous event , especially in August . its festival be the third big ticketed event in the world . I speak to Edinburgh city council in advance of this debate , which tell I that it be hugely supportive of this legislation , which will help not only the council but all the venue and premise in the city to prepare for a terrorist attack . Edinburgh offer itself as a pilot site , if the Home Office be interested in test how the legislation will work in practice . combat the evolve terrorist threat mean adapt and updating , which the Bill do . it also mean recognise that combat terrorism require a multi - pronged approach — one of the most important component of the Bill . it include measure to prevent a terror attack and put obstacle in the way of terrorist , but what be new and important be that it provide for premise to develop the way in which they will handle an attack once it have begin . that be critical . get venue to think , prepare and develop protocol before an event and before the emergency service arrive on the scene be how to minimise casualty and save life . that be an important component of our national defence against terror . on the specific point about the use of the SIA as a regulator , I welcome that , and I think it be the appropriate place for regulation . I praise the Government for bring Martyn ' s law before the House so swiftly , and I echo the word of campaigner in the memory of Martyn and all those kill in terrorist attack in our country . I also give thank to the security service . give the plan introduction of the Bill and the recent announcement that the SIA will be the regulator , many business in the security industry , such as the brilliant Vespasian in Portsmouth North , have ask whether the Minister will review the current SIA ' s core legislation and power to support the industry , in order to implement the law and its invaluable work on our frontline to counter terrorism and save life . my hon . friend make an important point . discussion be to be hold about the role of the SIA as it adapt to the change . the SIA be an appropriate body to regulate this legislation , but in 15 long year of deal with the Home Office and its body and authority , I have find that often these organisation be overstretch and struggle with the diversity of organisation that they have to deal with in the UK . the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , say that there be no point in legislate if we be unable to operationalise . I implore the Minister to look into the SIA ' s funding and resource , to ensure that this legislation have the desire effect . national security be a reserved matter , but some aspect of the Bill touch on devolved issue , such as fire service , justice and policing . I hope that the Home Office will work constructively with the Scottish Government and other devolve administration to ensure that the implementation be as smooth as possible across the nation of the United Kingdom . I strongly support the Bill . I be very pleased to see it come so swiftly to Parliament , and I look forward to the impact it will have in the community that want it . I support Martyn ' s law without reservation . it be important that we salute the campaigning and the courage of Martyn ' s family , and it be appropriate that colloquially the Bill be name Martyn ' s law . what happen in Manchester be shocking and chill we all to the core . it be reflective of so many brutal , wicked act of terrorism that have be experience right across this nation , not least in my own part of the United Kingdom . here we be today properly debate , under the rule of due process and do thing in order , rule and law to help we deal with terrorism . but we be conscious that terrorist play by no rule : they do not live within the confine of regulation , restraint or anything that would meet the standard of human right — quite the reverse . to that extent , society as a whole struggle on occasion to deal with the excess of terrorism , because of its determination to live within the rule of law . that be all the more reason why we need to do everything we can , even in the small thing . in the main , this Bill be about the small thing of deal with terrorism , to try to put ourselves in the good possible position to deal with the potential threat of terrorism that , sadly , exist across this nation . in do that , we have to be realistic that dot the I ' s and cross the t ' s be good and necessary , but fundamentally terrorism will be defeat across this nation only when there be no room for it ; when it meet the full rigour of the law and that put it out of business . that be the fundamental reality . I want to make a few comment about some of the particular of the Bill . I have some concern about its potential overreach . the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) touch on some of they . small school and church will now be subject to further regulatory requirement . I chair the board of governor of a small country school . we already have to have policy on fire safety , health and safety , and deal with emergency . that be all good and necessary , but I would like the Minister to explain what practical addition will be put upon small rural school and their board of governor . what will they have to provide that they be not already provide in their emergency , fire safety , and health and safety policy ? board of governor in particular will want to know that , because they operate within very constrain budget . in the school that I be involve with , every penny be account for and need for fundamental provision . I be concerned that , in its global approach , the Bill might put unbearable bureaucratic and financial burden on very small user . the impact assessment say that the majority of the cost will fall upon the business that have to operate within it . that also mean small school , church , community organisation and all the rest of it . that concern I . early an hon . Member ask what the Bill will do to deal with previously plant device , which be often deploy by terrorist . it be hard to see the impact , without counter - terrorist measure such as x - raying . I make that point mindful that just this weekend we mark the 40th anniversary of the bombing of the Grand hotel in Brighton , where one of the most audacious terrorist attack , which aim to kill the Cabinet of the United Kingdom , be perfect by the planting of a bomb in that hotel week before . we need to consider what would help to deal with that kind of situation . that be why I be a little bit concerned that the Home Secretary say there would be no measure in the Bill to require physical step to be take . if a hotel , leisure centre or large arena have a deficiency in its CCTV coverage that be observable by the SIA or whoever else — as there be in Manchester , where the terrorist be cute enough to pick out the CCTV blind spot — be it not sensible , if we be go to put in place protective measure , that physical measure could and should be include , such as identify gap in CCTV coverage , so that in the event of an outrage there be at least a well prospect of bring the perpetrator to justice ? that might also act as a deterrent . in fight terrorism , deterrence be very often as important as anything else . it be our duty to ensure that that be so . I will just touch on a couple of other point in the Bill . I note that clause 31 , on civil liability , state : " nothing in this part confer a right of action in any civil proceeding in respect of any contravention of a requirement impose on any person by or under this Part . " that cause I to question . Most or all our building be cover by the occupier ' liability legislation , which be premise on the duty of care of the occupier to their visitor . how can we say , in clause 31 , that if we be go to impose obligation in respect of take step to protect against the potential of terrorist attack and those step be not take , that will not create the basis for civil action ? surely that be an indicator and a contributor to the question of whether or not the duty of care be fulfil to the visitor . it puzzle I why clause 31 be in those term . the final thing I want to say relate to the SIA . we be give a lot of power to an organisation which , frankly , have not always cover itself in glory . I speak of my own part of the United Kingdom , where the SIA have issue licence to some dubious character . it be not beyond the wit of terrorist — some of we have see this — to set themselves up as so - call security firm and apply for licence . do not ever fall into the trap of think that terrorist act by the rule we act by and that they would not do that . yes , they would . the SIA have be find want . in Northern Ireland , we recently have a case of gross overreach by the SIA , where it bring a prosecution that the judge say have to be stop and should never have be bring . the SIA spend £ 200 , 000 and the case involve illegal search of property , so it be not a body that be a ready recipient for extra power . I worry that we will overburden it , if it be to do the job in the way that it need to be do . I therefore say to the Minister that maybe the SIA be not the right regulatory body , because it already have a huge burden of work and it have not always be successful in what it do . we want to that we — the elect representative of this House who want to protect our constituent from the most hideous thing , namely terrorist attack — do all we reasonably can , and that mean get this legislation right . I rise to welcome the Bill and the cross - party support for it that we have see in this debate . seven year ago , I be in the education sector and I work with a group of trainee paramedic . those trainee paramedic be deploy on that night in Manchester to the scene of the bombing . they be student , and they run into the danger and into scene that be scarcely see outside battlefield . the support they need be the reason I support the Bill . I think it be right thing to do . I commend the campaigning by Martyn ' s family and by all other who have campaign for justice for victim of terror . this be the right Bill , because its provision be common sense . the tiere approach be the right one to ensure that an undue burden be not place on small business and that the legal duty on provider be a reasonable measure . there be another group of student from that university who , sadly , be affect by terror that same year , just week before . they be refer to early by the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . one be a friend of mine , Travis Frain , who I know member across the House will be familiar with . he have be campaign passionately for victim of terror for year , since his experience in that incident . he carry out a survey of over 300 victim of terror , and find that 76 % of victim be either unable to access psychological treatment , or rate it to be poor or abysmal . that be unacceptable . that be why Travis have be call for guarantee on minimum standard for access to psychological treatment and physiotherapy , as well as legal and financial assistance for victim of terror . he have also be call , as the right hon . Lady refer to , for the publication of the review that be carry internally within the Home Office , so that campaigner can campaign on those recommendation and ensure they be put into action . we know further action be need , but the Bill be an important first step to move towards justice for the victim . it be a fitting tribute to the victim , the family and all those who run towards the danger . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I thank the Secretary of State for her introduction and for set the scene so well with passion , delivery and understanding . as I say early , there be no one in the Chamber who could oppose the Bill . there be the question of whether it go far enough — member have indicate some issue may need to be address far down the line — but that be for the future . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their speech . Martyn ' s law be aptly name after one of those who tragically die in the carnage of the attack on child and young people in the Manchester bombing . I do not think there be anyone who have not shed a tear over that . it linger long . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak about this issue . as many member will know , the people of Northern Ireland have an unfortunate history of terrorism which greatly influence the way in which we live our life for many year , as we hear from the hon . member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . those be scar that we live with and will live with for all our day , for they will never go away . we use to check under our car . I serve as a part - time soldier for some 14 and a half year , and checkpoint man by soldier or officer in the Royal Ulster Constabulary be the norm as they attempt to protect life and prevent act of terror . we become condition to ensure that at any event , people have half an eye on the possibility of terrorist attack . I be pleased to see the Minister in his place , because he and I have be friend in the House for a long time , and I know that he bring to the House personal knowledge base on his own gallant service . we appreciate it very much , and I be put that on the record for Hansard . I want to give a couple of example of what be refer to by the hon . member for North Antrim . one be the indiscriminate shooting at a church hall in Darkley , during which IRA gunman murder three elder welcome their 70 - strong congregation of man , woman and child with no affiliation to any organisation , and , indeed , with no other qualification other than to be protestant . the gunman come into the hall shooting , and stop only when , after the pastor cry out , the gun jam ; and the gunman run out to continue spray the church with bullet from the outside with his semi - automatic rifle . the question that I pose here tonight be this : what will be do to ensure that church — and school , which the hon . Member also mention — receive the protection that they need ? after the atrocity of the Darkley murder , every church that I know of in Northern Ireland ensure that there be man at the door and an evacuation plan for cr è che and child ' s church facility in particular . indeed , child protection training take place automatically after that event of many year ago , and I know that in that church , and in other faith building , evacuation procedure be standard to this day . those who volunteer in the cr è che be give route to send child to freedom should something go wrong . this be our live experience in Northern Ireland , owe to the evil man who push an evil agenda and destroy the innocence of a nation — but not its spirit . no one want these horror to be a reality , but in Northern Ireland they have be . our restaurant have a history of be target . in the La Mon hotel , which use to be in my constituency , a napalm - type bomb not only take the life of 12 member of the Collie Club who be have dinner there , but horrifically burn and injure a further 30 people . one of they be Billy McDowell , who die about four week ago . since that time , our hotel have have procedure in place to deal with that dread warning phone call . we have have horrific experience . we do not like to boast about they , and I be not boast now . we do thing voluntarily because they be the right thing to do , and I think that the Bill bring we close to do the same thing here . the people of Northern Ireland deal with these horror and the evil nature that drive they . the police force be so specialised that former ruc officer still train police force around the world , include in the Balkans , Africa , and country in the middle and far east . our expertise be one that I wish with all my heart we do not possess , but it be once root so deeply in our mind that someone leave a shopping bag behind be a cause for the evacuation of shopping centre . that be why I believe that although we can not live in a lockdown mode , such basic consideration must be standard . the Police Service of Northern Ireland have expertise , knowledge and skill that be transferable , and they should and must be part of the Bill . I hope that the Minister , who I know will respond to the debate in a positive and helpful fashion because he always do , will tell we the thing that we need to hear about the Bill , and about the goal for which the Government be aim . let I say this to he , very gently . the police must always be the last word in security . it can not be individual and it can not be organisation ; it must always be the police . we must ensure that young kid like my granddaughter , who have no experience of terrorism — and that be something for which I thank God — be keep safe by those who understand that no matter how unlikely it be for an act of terrorism to be perpetrate against kid at a concert , such as those in Manchester , it be a possibility . I have six grandchild . the two eld girl , Katie and Mia , do not know enough to view bag suspiciously , or to ask , " be there something unusual about that ? " I know that other have say this , and I say it now very respectfully . not everyone see the danger ; not everyone see what be suspicious . child be innocent , as they should be , and they should be able to have innocent life . we need to find a well way forward . the people in charge of that facility in Manchester need to be aware , for the sake of the child . that be second nature in Northern Ireland , but it must also be in the mindset of people throughout the United Kingdom , which be why I support the reasonable application of the obligation that we be discuss . I have no desire to raise the price of ticket for event , meal in a large restaurant or bed in a resort and spa , but the basic assumption that such thing could happen , and answer the basic question about what we can we do if it do and who will know what to do , be the bare minimum at this stage . let I ask the Minister a few question . they be intend , as always , to be constructive , and to help the conversation and the building of this legislation . what help and support will be offer to business to help they come to term with what be reasonably expect , and what further support will there be in respect of a cost - effective way of meeting obligation ? that , by the way , apply equally to church and school . we need to ensure that business be not deter from expand because they can not meet cost . will the Minister outline how we can be a part of the conversation about the introduction of procedure to keep people safe ? terror be something that I wish be a thing of the past , but the shooting in Omagh in February 2023 of Detective Chief Inspector John Caldwell , who be coach at his own son ' s weekly football game , and the atrocity in Southport this summer when three beautiful young child be brutally murder , be a heartbreaking reminder that evil people be still at work , and we need to do all that we can to stay safe and keep other safe with we . tonight , through this potential legislation , we be take a step in the right direction , which I trust will save life and stop terror attack . let I begin by pay tribute to Figen Murray and the Martyn ' s law campaign , to Survivors against Terror , and to all the security partner , business , charity , local authority and victim group that have inform the Bill and help to get we where we be today . I also thank the Minister and the Home Secretary for the constructive tone that they have take in debate , and for their offer to work with we to ensure that the Bill complete its stage rapidly . it be a tragic turn of event that a terrible incident be the catalyst for a change in the law , but I hope that the family of Martyn Hett can take some pride in the legacy that Martyn have leave . we have hear some very good contribution this evening , and in particular two very good maiden speech , the first of which be make by the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) . it be lovely to see her family in the Gallery — they be obviously very proud of she — and to hear of a number of local priority on which she will be work on behalf of her constituent . although she say that she do not have much in common with the Iron Lady , whose birthday be yesterday , I could tell that there be an iron lady within she , and I look forward to hear her future contribution in this place . the second maiden speech be make by the hon . member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) . he pay a generous tribute to his predecessor , Mark Harper , who work hard for the constituency , and tell we how hard he would work for his constituent in this place . he challenge a number of member on whether they could say that a television show have be make about their constituency , and on which be the most beautiful . well , I can , because that BBC blockbuster " howard ' way " be film in Hamble Valley . we be particularly proud of that , and the hon . Gentleman should be rightly proud of his constituency . we have have some other really important contribution to the debate . the hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) speak as someone represent the locality of the terrorist attack in Manchester — his constituency be in Greater Manchester . he speak very passionately on behalf of his constituent about the lesson of the inquiry , which be outline in his speech . I could tell that he care deeply about his constituency and what happen with this piece of legislation go forward , and I pay tribute to he for his speech . the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) speak about the compassion and kindness of the people of Manchester . when conservative go to the Tory party conference in Manchester , we be always welcome very warmly in the bar and by the people of Manchester , despite expectation . we send they our good wish go forward . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) rightly pay tribute to Figen Murray and the charity that help she and her wide campaign secure a change in the law . my right hon . Friend also mention the former Security Minister James Brokenshire , to whom I be briefly parliamentary private Secretary and who pass away three year ago . she be absolutely right to outline the early work that he do on this change in the law , and we all very much miss he in this place . we also miss Sir David Amess , who be brutally murder three year ago tomorrow , and we remember Jo Cox in this House as well . my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) rightly outline some concern about the Bill ' s shortcoming , particularly around organisation that have seasonal peak . I will be interested to hear the Minister outline how some of the challenge for small business with seasonal peak can be address in this legislation . our great country have come under attack far too often , and all government have work tirelessly to protect the United Kingdom . we believe that that be why we must support the legislation in its aim . I be proud of the work that the previous Government , include my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , do to bring in Martyn ' s law . it be a measure of how much work be do by his family and various organisation that both I and the Minister can stand here today to show that this Bill be need , and that we can broadly support its measure and aim . once again , I sincerely congratulate the Government on the fast - tracking of this Bill , and I congratulate the Home Secretary on the way in which she open the debate . the aim of Martyn ' s law be to ensure that premise be well prepared for terrorist attack , to help protect the public . as I have say , we welcome this Bill , but we need to make sure that we find the right balance between public protection and the requirement place on business and community venue . as note by Neil Sharpley , policy chair of the Federation of Small Businesses , this law will have an administrative impact on small business and there will be an additional cost to they . Michael Kill , the ceo of the Night Time Industry Association , say : " we must ensure that the balance between heighten security and practical implementation be carefully consider . " the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , say that although we be supportive of the Bill , we remain concerned about the level of regulation that will be impose on the venue include in this legislation . the Government ' s impact assessment outline that 155 , 000 small business with a capacity between 200 and 799 will have average cost of £ 330 per year , and that large venue will have average cost of £ 5 , 000 per year , so I would like assurance that the Minister be look at a range of option to mitigate those cost as much as possible . I would also like assurance about the burdensome cost on small venue , charitable venue and religious venue that have that level of capacity , as mention by both my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham . I want to raise some concern about clause 4 of the Bill and the " person responsible " element of the legislation . although I accept that clear line of accountability be necessary , what important safeguard will be in place for the responsible person in the horrible event that something should tragically go wrong ? they could include anonymity , support structure that can be place around the responsible person , or a line in the Bill state that the SIA must use its power and investigatory function in the most constructive way possible . I want to finish by thank the government once again for continue the important work on the Bill . as I have say , we will work constructively with the Government throughout the passage of this Bill and raise concern should we have they , as we have do this evening . I welcome the Minister ' s approach once again , and praise the family and supporter of Martyn for their work in get this important legislation on the statute book . as the official Opposition , we look forward to support its passage in this place . it be a pleasure to follow the shadow Minister , and I would like to take the opportunity to thank all hon . and right hon . member who have speak in this debate . I will endeavour to address the theme of the argument that have be put forth . before do so , I place on the record my thank to the Home Affairs Committee for its scrutiny of the draft Bill in the last session , and I thank the Opposition for the constructive approach they have take to this Bill , for the support that they have give today and , indeed , for the work do by the previous Government . as many hon . member have rightly set out , keep the country safe be the first duty of government . just last week , the director general of MI5 set out in his threat update speech that the country be subject to the most interconnect threat environment that we have ever see . the threat picture be complex , evolve and enduring , with terrorist choose to attack a broad range of location . it be not possible to predict where in the UK an attack might happen , or the type of premise or event that could be impact , but engagement with business indicate that preparedness and protective security in the counter - terrorism space often fall behind area where there be long - establish legal requirement , such as health and safety . in recent year , inquest and inquiry into terror attack have set out the need for a legal requirement , include monitor recommendation 4 in volume 1 of the Manchester Arena inquiry . the police , the security service and other partner continue to do all they can to combat the terror threat , and we be immensely grateful to all those who work around the clock to counter threat and protect the safety of our country . the public be safe as a result of their effort , and we owe they an enormous debt of gratitude . many business and organisation already do excellent work to improve their security and preparedness . however , the absence of legislative requirement mean that there be no consistency or consideration of the outcome . that be what this Bill — Martyn ' s law — seek to achieve . it will improve protective security and organisational preparedness across the UK , thereby make we safe . through the Bill , qualifying premise and event should be well prepared to respond in the event of a terrorist attack . those responsible for certain premise and event will be require to take step to mitigate the impact of a terrorist attack and reduce harm in the event of a terrorist attack occur . additionally , certain large premise and event will have to take step to reduce their vulnerability to terrorist attack . the public rightly deserve to feel safe when visit public premise and attend event , and the Government see it as reasonable that , in many location , appropriate and reasonably practical step should be take to protect staff and the public from the impact of terrorism . like other member , I would like to take the opportunity to thank and pay tribute to Figen Murray , whose campaigning have be crucial in drive this Bill forward . her tireless work be an inspiration to we all . to have suffer such a tremendous loss and still find the strength to campaign for change be extraordinary , and I know that I speak for all member of this House in say Figen , you be an inspiration . I turn now to the main point raise during today ' s debate . first , I should say that we be privileged to hear two truly excellent maiden speech from the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) and my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) . both speak exceptionally well and do their constituent real credit , and I know that the House will look forward to hear much more from they as they draw on the huge experience that they both bring to this place . I should also say , as this legislation progress , that we keep in our heart all those who have lose their life in terrorist attack , include the late Sir David Amess and Jo Cox . they be go but their memory endure , as do our commitment to support their love one and the survivor who live with the scar of be catch up in terrorism , whether physical or psychological . I firmly agree with the sentiment express by the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) in respect of the late James Brokenshire , who be much miss in this place . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the late Ian Gow , the former Member of Parliament for Eastbourne , who be brutally assassinate in a terrorist attack in 1990 ? his shield be here in the Chamber , honour his memory all year round , and I would invite the Minister and all member to share their tribute to he as well . I be grateful to the hon . member for make that intervention , and yes , of course I join the hon . member in that . I be sure that all member will want to pay tribute to the late Ian Gow . the shadow Home Secretary ask about implement - ation . follow Royal Assent , there will be time to understand and , where necessary , act upon the new requirement before they come into force . we expect the implementation period to be at least 24 month to allow for the set - up of the regulator , and we will continue to engage and communicate with industry and other stakeholder during this period , include in the live music sector , to ensure that there be sufficient time for those responsible for premise and event in scope to understand their new obligation , and to plan and prepare . a robust monitoring and evaluation plan be also in place to measure the Bill ' s effectiveness follow implementation , and the Government will keep the Bill ' s measure under review and have the power need to adjust the regime if necessary . several Members ask about the proportionality of the standard tier . the Government be extremely mindful that many premise and event continue to face the challenge of rise cost . the Bill seek to achieve public protection outcome while avoid an undue burden on business and other organisation . in the standard tier , the focus be on have procedure that be intend to be simple and low cost . there will be no requirement to put in place any physical measure . many of my constituent in Rochdale will warmly welcome this Bill , particularly give that many of they be in the Manchester Arena on that dark day in 2017 . I would like to suggest , though , that many small music venue worry about the proportionality of this Bill . do the Minister want to give they reassurance that the voluntary scheme in Manchester have work well so far , and that this revise version of the Bill will reduce the cost that be anticipate before ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , a Greater Manchester MP , for make that important point . it be worth say in response that the feedback from business in the Greater Manchester area have be incredibly positive . while we be mindful of the potential burden on business , we have consult and work closely with the sector and we will continue to listen carefully to the concern it may wish to raise . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a bit of progress . I will come to the hon . gentleman in a moment , but I be conscious that time be against I and that Madam Deputy Speaker be look intently at I . the right hon . member for Witham make a number of important point , not least that the primary role of the Security Industry Authority will be to provide advice , guidance and support to those responsible , to enable they to meet their obligation . the Bill also give the SIA the necessary enforcement and investigation power . these be model on those of other similar inspection regime , which will allow an inspector to enter premise , interview staff , gather the information they need and assess the level of compliance . in the most serious or persistent of instance , criminal sanction will be available . the right hon . Lady also ask for an update on our work to support the victim of terrorism , and she rightly reference the good work of Travis Frain , whom I also have have the privilege of meeting to discuss important issue , include that of memorialisation . the right hon . Lady raise a number of important point , and I will commit to write to she specifically on this point but also on the other point that she raise . she should be assure , however , as should the whole House , of this Government ' s commitment to support the victim of terrorism . my hon . friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) , another Greater Manchester MP , speak powerfully about the impact of the Manchester attack . I fully agree with everything he say , as I do with the contribution make by my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) speak movingly about Martyn Hett and eloquently pay tribute to the solidarity , resilience and resolve of the people of Greater Manchester . I can also assure she , and the House , that dedicated , easy - to - follow guidance and support will be provide for duty holder to ensure that those in scope have the require information on what to do and how good to do it . this will include local authority and volunteer , as raise by the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) and for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) respectively . my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) ask about planning process , and I have make a particular note of his point about bollard . I can assure he that we will consider , with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and planning lead in the devolved government , how security consideration be reference in and achieve through the planning regime and guidance , in the light of the Bill ' s provision . the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley make a number of important , pertinent point . he rightly say that the protection and safety of the public be paramount , but he raise a number of point around the impact on small premise and the change nature of the threat . I can give he the assurance that he seek . my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) make a number of useful point , not least about seek to strike the right balance between security and the impact on business . the hon . member for North Cornwall rightly reflect his own constituency experience and speak about rural venue , small premise and penalty . I be also grateful to he for mention Brendan Cox . it be absolutely right to reference the significant contribution that Brendan Cox have make to this process . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) make a really important point about Edinburgh . it be a great city that know how to host event , and I be particularly pleased to hear that the city welcome this legislation . of course , we will want to work closely with colleague in Scotland and elsewhere to ensure the successful implementation of this legislation . the hon . member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) make a number of important point , not least on ensure that we work together to defeat terrorism . he also raise important point about small premise and the SIA . I be happy to discuss those point with he far , but I can say to he that the enhance duty requirement will not apply to premise use for childcare or for primary , secondary and further education . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) also mention Travis Frain , and I be grateful to he for do so . I join he in pay tribute to Travis ' s work . he have be an inspirational campaigner and we will want to continue to work closely with he in the future . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , as always , draw very sensibly on his experience of Northern Ireland from a terrorism perspective . his contribution be always appreciate . he raise a number of specific point and I will endeavour to come back to he by letter in order to give he clarity . the Minister be always very kind and I know he would say yes to I eventually . he have not comment yet on church . could he give we some idea of what his thought be there ? I mention in my contribution the fact that all church right across Northern Ireland take precaution after the Darkley hall massacre . every person need to be safety conscious , and every person in church take that role upon themselves . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for mention church . all place of worship will be include in the standard tier . we recognise their unique and hugely important contribution , and we have look very closely at how we can ensure that this legislation will provide they with appropriate protection . again , I be happy to discuss this far , should the hon . Gentleman wish to do so . the Bill ' s provision have be very carefully design to strike the right balance between public protection and avoid undue burden on premise and event . these simple , common - sense step will bolster the UK ' s preparedness for and protection from terrorism . I finish by reiterate the thank of the whole House to Figen Murray . to have go through what she have and still work so tirelessly for change be both humble and inspiring . Figen have say that it be time to get this do , and she be right . security be the foundation upon which everything else be build , and nothing matter more to this Government . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 19 November 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide , and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . business without Debate Business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Business of the House ( private Members ' Bills ) not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) business of the House ( private Members ' Bills ) order , that private Members ' bill shall have precedence over Government business on 29 November , 6 December 2024 , 17 January , 24 January , 7 March , 14 March , 28 March , 25 April , 16 May , 13 June , 20 June , 4 July and 11 July 2025 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) speaker ' s Conference I beg to move , that — this House consider that it be essential that election to the United Kingdom Parliament be conduct freely and fairly , without threat or violence ; that candidate be able to campaign in safety , with appropriate protection and support ; and that elect representative can do their job securely , and accordingly agree that the follow order be make : ( 1 ) there shall be a committee to be know as the Speaker ' s Conference which shall consist of the Speaker , who shall be Chair , and up to 14 other member appoint by the Speaker . ( 2 ) the Conference shall consider the factor influence the threat level against candidate and mp and the effectiveness of the response to such threat , and make recommendation about the arrangement necessary to secure free and fair election and the appropriate protection of candidate at future UK - wide parliamentary election and of elect representative thereafter . ( 3 ) the Speaker shall appoint one or more of the member of the Conference to act as vice - Chair in his absence . ( 4 ) except as provide in this order , the Conference and any sub - committee thereof that the Speaker shall appoint shall conduct its proceeding in such manner as the Speaker shall determine , notwithstanding any Standing order or practice of this House . ( 5 ) the Conference shall have power — ( a ) to send for person , paper and record , to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House and to adjourn from place to place ; ( b ) to report from time to time ; ( c ) to appoint legal adviser , and to appoint specialist adviser either to supply information which be not readily available or to elucidate matter of complexity within the committee ' s order of reference . ( 6 ) the Speaker shall have power to appoint sub - committee of the Speaker ' s Conference and sub - committee appoint under this order shall have power to send for person , paper and record , to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House , to adjourn from place to place , to report from time to time their formal minute , and shall have a quorum of three . ( 7 ) the quorum of the Conference shall be five . ( 8 ) this order shall have effect until the end of the current Parliament . this week mark three year since the death of Sir David Amess , and this motion will establish a Speaker ' s Conference to consider and make recommendation on the factor influence the threat level against candidate and mps , and the effectiveness of the response to such threat . I reassure the House that there will be member of Parliament on the Speaker ' s Conference , and that this be a process , not an event . there will be plenty of time and opportunity for people to contribute to the Speaker ' s Conference . finally , I take this opportunity to thank Mr Speaker for all the work he do , and have do for many year , to keep member of this House safe . this Speaker ' s Conference will be a very important moment in that journey , as we all come together to think about recommendation for the future . question put and agree to . business without Debate Statutory Instruments ( Joint Committee ) order , that Lewis Atkinson , Mark Ferguson , Claire Hughes , Sir Bernard Jenkin , Charlie Maynard , Gordon McKee and Ms Julie Minns be member of the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments . — ( Chris Elmore , on behalf of the Selection Committee . ) Nuclear Industry : Cumbria Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) in just three day ' time , we will mark the 68th anniversary of the opening of Calder Hall , the world ' s first commercial civil nuclear power station , in my constituency . at 12 . 16 pm on 17 October 1956 , Queen Elizabeth II pull the lever direct electricity from the power station into the national grid , and Workington , 15 mile up the coast and also in my constituency , become the first town in the world to receive light , heat and power from nuclear energy . speak that day , her Majesty the Queen say : " this new power , which have prove itself to be such a terrifying weapon of destruction , be harness for the first time for the common good of our community . " and it be good for my community . we have two nuclear power station at Heysham , and I be campaign for new nuclear at the same site . do my hon . friend agree that we need to recapture the spirit of the early day of civil nuclear and move at pace to deliver new nuclear for the new generation ? I thank my hon . friend for the intervention , and give that my entire speech be dedicate to that very point , I will gladly agree with she . West Cumbrians be incredibly proud of the part we play in the first clean energy revolution . we need only speak to some of those who work at the power plant during its 47 year in operation to hear the pride in their voice . after Calder Hall come another 10 nuclear power plant in 10 year — we open 10 in 10 year . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . he be right to point to the 10 power station that be build , but if I may , I will gently remind he of the one that do not happen — although not as a result of what he say . Northern Ireland and the devolved nation have an important role to play in nuclear power provision . almost 70 year ago there be plan to build Northern Ireland ' s first atomic power station in County Tyrone , but ultimately they fall through . it be so important that we collectively have the facility necessary to advance our nuclear power . do he agree that , alongside his constituency and other area of the mainland UK , more must be do to ensure that the devolved nation , include Northern Ireland , be consider for manufacturing basis and as potential area for power station in the future ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the intervention and I be glad to hear he be not blame I for the decade - old issue with nuclear power in Northern Ireland . I agree with he that every corner of the United Kingdom could benefit from its energy output . Richard Butler say at the time that Calder Hall be open : " it may be that after 1965 every new power station be build will be an atomic power station . " from our dependence on fossil fuel towards the end of the 20th century , however , we know that that be not the case . it be the last Labour Government that reignite interest in new nuclear in 2005 . the then Prime Minister , Sir Tony Blair , announce a review of the Government ' s energy policy in order to reduce our reliance on foreign import and tackle the threat of climate change . he recognise that we could not do that with renewable alone and he rightly and firmly put civil nuclear power back on the table . in 2009 , follow an announcement by the then — and current — Energy Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , we have ambitious plan for 10 site to be the home of a new fleet of nuclear power station , include three in Cumbria . the aim be for that fleet to shift the UK decisively from fossil fuel to clean , dependable power , to safeguard our nuclear skill and to provide energy security for decade into the 21st century . moorside in my constituency , Hinkley , Sizewell , Hartlepool , Heysham , Wylfa , Oldbury and Bradwell be the community identify to deliver that mission . how many of they have a new nuclear power station today , 15 year on ? zero . under the Conservatives , only one new nuclear project , Hinkley , be give the full go - ahead , and none open during their time in Government . fourteen year squander — not only that , but we actually go backwards , with new nuclear project collapse on their watch . after 14 year of standstill in the nuclear sector , our community have be leave without job , without security , without strength in the economy and without energy security . now more than ever , community such as mine need an answer on whether nuclear be on the agenda , and we need a timescale . our young people be leave our community , the economy be die on its foot and we be poor as energy producer than ever . I believe the last Government fail this country on energy security . I agree with the hon . member ; I share many of the concern of remoter part of Wales and England and I think we both represent seat that have those issue . a plan in my constituency , which be not dissimilar to that of Wylfa , for a new 3 . 4 GW nuclear power plant to be build at Moorside , adjacent to Sellafield , collapse in 2018 . we now know that the previous Government do nothing to intervene or to assess the impact of that collapse on my community . instead , they promise a new process that would deliver small modular reactor and set up great British Nuclear to oversee it . that decision and other have allow conservative politician to hide behind process for year after year , promise jam tomorrow . for my community and many other , it have be election after election of broken promise . I first raise the alarm about potential roadblock to new nuclear in Cumbria before the election , which be why I launch the New Nuclear Now campaign . however , it be only through question ask since then that I have be able to uncover the roadblock to site new smr in Cumbria . those roadblock be specific to west Cumbria but be also a reflection of Britain ' s problem with building . I will briefly explain the exact nature of the problem . the crux of the issue lie in compete demand on the land designate for new nuclear at Moorside . in short , the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority want to use a large area of the land for the laydown of construction material for future building that it hope to construct on the Sellafield site as part of its decommissioning activity . great british Nuclear need to make a decision imminently about the site selection and , if Moorside be a contender , it need to be confident that the land will be available for new nuclear plant . to put it simply , zero - sum thinking and the lack of a serious plan b from the NDA be put the economic future of my community at risk . do my hon . friend agree that bring new nuclear to our wonderful county be not just important for economic growth but absolutely essential if we be to attract new people to come and live in Cumbria , so we can grow our population and begin to overcome some of the demographic challenge we currently face ? my hon . friend and I frequently talk about the demographic challenge face Cumbria , like many other post - industrial part of our country . new nuclear can put those community on the map and act as a magnet for inward investment and migration from elsewhere in the UK . hypothetical future decommissioning work , not yet approve or fund by Government and that could use different available land , be put a very real and current proposal to build new nuclear power at Moorside in jeopardy . that be simply unacceptable to I and to my community . I be incredibly proud of the world - lead decommissioning work take place at Sellafield . it be our big local employer , with 12 , 000 people directly employ and thousand more in the supply chain . the work be do there under the leadership of CEO Euan Hutton be truly groundbreake , and it have ensure that west Cumbria will continue to play a crucial role in the nuclear industry well into the future . I will back any viable new project that speed up decommissioning and create more opportunity for my community . what must change be that that work must become a springboard for Cumbria ' s future opportunity and not simply an anchor provide security . in truth , I have meet too many people in Whitehall who think that we in west Cumbria should consider ourselves lucky to have what we have . I have absolutely no time for that sentiment . it show a complete lack of regard for the member of a community who have be custodian of one of Europe ' s most hazardous site and who want and deserve a diverse economic future that be not simply dependent on one employer . new nuclear be the key to create that springboard to a diversified , vibrant and entrepreneurial economy . new nuclear would create a cumbrian magnet for the energy - intensive industry hungry for the clean , reliable baseload power that only nuclear can provide . it would build on our exist world - lead workforce and strengthen it too . it would capitalise on the good will of a community whose member understand nuclear and be eager to get build . in short , new nuclear power generation be in no way incompatible with my community ' s role in decommissioning . in fact , it be a mutually beneficial endeavour . I understand the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority ' s position — the clue be in the name . it be there to deliver safe , efficient and effective decommissioning programme for our nuclear waste across the UK . however , under the Energy Act 2023 it also have a responsibility to work in the interest of the local community . our community need and deserve more than simply decommission work into the future . I be confident that the NDA can come up with a plan b for its future that will preserve Moorside for its original purpose of new nuclear . I say that with confidence because until 2018 the NDA be plan on the basis of gigawatt - scale reactor at Moorside . my community , which overwhelmingly support the building of new nuclear , and have the skill and expertise to deliver it , have a site designate for new nuclear , so my ask of the Minister be simple : I would like his Department to make clear the primacy of new nuclear use on site currently designate for new nuclear over any other potential future use of those bit of land — not just those in my constituency . I would like the land need for new nuclear at Moorside transfer from the NDA to great British Nuclear to make that intent clear . GBN have take ownership of other land for nuclear development , and it be now time that the same should happen at Moorside . the clock be tick on the need for that transfer of land , as GBN will make siting decision in the come month . I also ask that the Government support the NDA to come up with plan for laydown use other land available , and that they provide long - term confidence to the NDA on some of the major decommissioning choice that lie ahead , not least on plutonium . finally , I would like the Department to instruct GBN to assess the Moorside site as it stand , and not on the basis of any other future land use , hypothetical or real . it be my firm belief that the Moorside site will score very highly without those roadblock in its way . West Cumbrians be ready to play our part in Britain ' s new nuclear future . we be globally recognise in the nuclear sector as an area with a match - fit supply chain , decade of knowledge , and the experience need to build complex nuclear technology . we have a strong skill base that want to deliver the net zero infrastructure of the future , back up by the excellent educational institution need . my hon . friend the Minister and the Government have be hand a mess by their predecessor , which they be now be ask to fix at the eleventh hour . it be my hope that the new Government will support Cumbria in our ambition , and remove the roadblock that stand in our way . rise — order . can I just check whether the hon . Member have give notice to the Member in charge and to the Minister of his intention to speak ? indicate assent . thank you . I call Jonathan Brash . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) on secure the debate and on his continue leadership on this issue in this place . it be worth note that " community " be perhaps the most common word in his speech . there be also that community in Hartlepool in my constituency , which have be proudly home to a nuclear power station for more than 40 year . a third of our economic footprint be down to that station , as well as three quarter of our business rate and more than 700 employee . in my brief remark — I do not want to take up too much the House ' s time — I want to impress three thing on the Minister . first , the delivery of new nuclear for town such as Hartlepool and elsewhere be integral to our mission to secure clean power . secondly , it be incredibly important for decarbonise our industry , particularly the advanced modular reactor option potentially available in Hartlepool . thirdly , and most importantly , new nuclear can deliver for community such as mine the reindustrialisation and prosperity that have be take from they for generation ; it can truly transform our local economy . my message to the Minister be that time be of the essence . decision be require . we have have 14 year of dither and delay . now we can truly change our community for the well . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for secure the debate . to meet our grow energy need and prevent the catastrophic cost of climate change , we need nuclear alongside renewable . it be that simple . with nuclear power , more job will be highly skilled , well pay and unionise , and here I commend the dedicated and consistent work of the GMB union over many year . if ever anyone want to see the difference between our new Government and the last , nuclear power be a good place to start . the Conservatives may talk a good game about nuclear power , but I note that not a single Conservative Member of Parliament be sit on the Opposition Benches . fourteen year of conservative rule have get we nowhere . no nuclear plant be build , despite a positive inheritance of 10 approve nuclear site from the last Labour Government . David Cameron send Horizon in Wales and NewGen in Cumbria to the wall — Order . I gently remind the hon . member , who should sit when I be stand , that the debate be specifically title " Nuclear Industry : Cumbria " , and he might like to confine his comment to Cumbria . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . just to repeat , David Cameron send Horizon in Wales and NewGen in Cumbria to the wall . George Osborne beg the Chinese to invest in nuclear power , and we be now unpick his mistake . Theresa May proceed to pause Hinkley Point C , nearly kill it off , and Sizewell with it . Boris Johnson may have show some love to nuclear , but what come of it ? thankfully , Liz Truss be in power for too short a time to do any more damage , and the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) focus only on small modular reactor in the die day of his government . it be important to spell out the way in which conservative Prime Ministers have do such damage to nuclear across our country , because they have therefore stymie the development of nuclear in Cumbria . as my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington have say , it be important that we proceed with plan there . the last Conservative Government have 14 year and a multitude of nuclear project to sign off , with developer desperate to build . right now , we could be build Hinkley , NewGen , Sizewell and small modular reactor , as we be just hear . instead , two project be collapse , there be endless talk about the financing of Sizewell instead of build it and practically nothing be do about small modular reactor . turn narrowly to Sizewell C , I be delighted by this Labour Government ' s commitment and determination to reach a final investment decision as soon as possible . invest in nuclear be not just right for our country ; it be right for all our community . it can affect not just our current generation , but generation to come . our mission — labour ' s mission — be not just about reduce damage from fossil fuel for the benefit of all ; it be about our hope for a well future , and I be pleased that they rest in large part on the prospect of british nuclear power . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) not only on secure this important debate and manage to get a considerable turnout for an Adjournment debate , but genuinely on the passion that he have bring , on behalf of his constituent , to this issue . I think he have have more meeting with Ministers in my Department than any other Member of this House in the past three month , and that be a credit to he . in his opening remark , he speak passionately about the importance of nuclear and the need for this Government to pick up from where the previous Government leave off , have build no new nuclear in 14 year . we be pick up this work at speed . it have barely move forward since my right hon . friend the Energy Secretary be previously in the role , 14 year ago . I welcome this opportunity to set out the Government ' s position . Cumbria be vital to the UK ' s energy , defence and nuclear industry , from Barrow - in - Furness , where the Ministry of Defence be build and maintain nuclear submarine ; to Drigg , where the low - level waste repository dispose of nuclear waste ; to Seascale , which be home to the most significant nuclear facility in the country ; and finally to Carlisle , where Nuclear Transport Solutions , owner of Direct Rail Services , operate a crucial railhead for nuclear transport . each of these location play a vital role in our nation ' s nuclear infrastructure , ensure safety , security and innovation in the nuclear sector . as my hon . friend outline , Cumbria ' s journey have be a remarkable one , of achievement , technological advancement and steadfast commitment — a testament to the people in this area , who have open their arm to nuclear and who continue to do so . the story begin post world war two , a time of rapid scientific progress in the global nuclear race . as my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington note , the Calder Hall nuclear power station — open by her Majesty in 1956 — be the world ' s first commercial nuclear power station , generate electricity for 47 year and provide valuable insight into reactor operation . in the 1980 , the site undergo a significant transformation and be rename Sellafield . that name change signify the site ' s broad mission , shift from solely plutonium production to encompass a wide range of nuclear activity include fuel reprocessing , waste management and environmental restoration . as the nuclear industry mature , Sellafield ' s focus shift once again towards decommissioning and environmental clean - up . the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority , establish under the Energy Act 2004 , oversee nuclear decommissioning across the UK . its mission be to clean up the legacy of nuclear waste safely , securely and cost - effectively . Sellafield be central to that mission : spread across some 276 hectare in Cumbria , it be task with decommissioning age nuclear facility , manage nuclear fuel and material , and ensure the safe disposal of nuclear waste . the site use advanced technology and expert knowledge to tackle those challenge , showcase the innovation and resilience of the UK ' s nuclear industry . tackle the UK ' s civil nuclear legacy safely , securely and cost - effectively be a national priority , with more than £ 3 billion be invest this year alone to ensure the NDA and its subsidiary continue its mission to clean up the UK ' s nuclear legacy . under the Energy Act , the NDA also have the supplementary function of promote economic development , social wellbeing and environmental sustainability . figure on the NDA ' s economic contribution to west Cumbria show that its local activity support £ 1 . 3 billion of gross value add across the local economy , which be 40 % of the total gross value add for the entire area . that be why this Government ' s commitment to new nuclear — which I restate — be so important . my hon . friend and a number of my colleague rightly mention the standstill approach of the previous Government : a lot of warm word , but 14 year of inaction . I notice that no Conservative Members be in the Chamber this evening . the legacy of nuclear activity in north - west Cumbria be important , but so too be its future . it continue to inspire confidence and optimism , with a decommissioning mission last over 100 year . the NDA and Sellafield will continue to contribute to the community of west Cumbria and remain at the forefront of that vital work . of course , the region also remain a pioneer in nuclear research and development , contribute to advancement in reactor technology , waste management and environmental protection . the lesson that we learn from Sellafield be invaluable asset right across the country and the world , guide future endeavour in the nuclear sector . we welcome the continue engagement of the two cumbrian community involve in the national process to find a suitable site for a geological disposal facility . it be a unique process whereby the local community will have the final say on whether it want to host that facility . as my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington outline , west Cumbria be also home to Moorside , a previously designate potential new nuclear site and one of several that have the capability to host future civil nuclear project . that site ' s location — adjacent to Sellafield — would need to be factor into any future consideration , and any prioritisation of project in west Cumbria will of course take into account how to maximise public benefit . as we look to the future of Cumbria ' s nuclear industry , we face both exciting opportunity and significant challenge . to meet the demand of our grow nuclear programme and to have a workforce pipeline , industry modelling suggest that we need to fill 40 , 000 job by 2030 . that mean we must more than double our current recruitment rate to ensure we have the skilled workforce necessary to drive our nuclear ambition forward . the skill challenge can only be tackle through cross - sector collaborative action , and the Government remain steadfast in their commitment to work closely with the nuclear sector to deliver on those action , in order to build a workforce that be ready to meet the demand of the future . Cumbria ' s nuclear future be bright , and with continue collaboration and dedication we will ensure that it remain at the forefront of the nuclear industry , drive innovation and sustainability for generation to come . I want to turn to the specific question my hon . friend raise about the land at Moorside . on whether the Government can make clear the primacy of new nuclear on the site currently list in the 2011 national policy statement , the statement list eight site as be potentially suitable for the deployment of new nuclear by 2025 . the site be nominate to that process by third party , and it be never intend that list such site should restrict their future use . any nuclear project at these potential site must be subject to development consent or to examination and approval , as well as site licensing and other regulatory requirement . on whether Great British Nuclear could consider the technical potential of Moorside without potential future decommissioning project nearby , I note that GBN have consider a number of site , include Moorside , from both a project delivery and a technical perspective . the fact be , however , that the location of the site adjacent to Sellafield do need to be factor into any consideration . any interaction between exist or future project could introduce additional complexity , potential pressure on support local infrastructure and increase delivery risk . I want to assure the House that use of the land at Moorside will undoubtedly bring investment and employment opportunity in the region , and any decision will be make with the utmost priority give to the maximisation of opportunity for the local community . West Cumbria ' s nuclear history show its commitment to scientific progress , environmental stewardship and public safety , and by work together we can ensure the good possible outcome as we navigate the complexity of nuclear decommissioning , waste management and this Government ' s absolute commitment to new nuclear . question put and agree to . House adjourn .