hello ! it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , and I extend my warm regard to all the Members make their maiden speech today . first , I would like to acknowledge my predecessor , Duncan Baker . he be an attentive and hard - work Member , and I wish he well in his future pursuit in industry . before he , Norman Lamb serve in this House for 19 year and leave an extraordinary legacy in the realm of mental health , a cause that he continue to be a dedicated advocate for . it be in no small part Norman ' s commitment to speak the truth to power and give a voice to the voiceless that make he such a hero to the people of North Norfolk , and which attract I to politic fully seven year ago , when I be first elect as a county councillor — and I draw member ' attention to the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in connection with my continue role there . I be immensely grateful for the trust that resident across North Norfolk have show in I : trust to represent they here , but also trust to play a part in the deep transformation we need in our politic if we be go to make positive change for society . this be an extraordinary place , but I can not do what I have promise to do for my constituent — we can not really do what we have be elect to do — without give it the shake - up that be long overdue . when people in the beautiful constituency of North Norfolk can not live well , in good accommodation , with access to transport and employment and healthcare as part of a vibrant society , it be all of we who be fail they . I be think of the former resident I meet on the train just last week who say to I , " I just want to come home , but there aren ' t the job and there isn ' t the transport . " I be also think about Kit , who make I my wonderful liberal Democrat tie , and about the need to protect the precious Norfolk broad that she live near ; about Lisa in North Walsham , who be live in constant anguish because of the supply risk to her life - dependent medication ; and about Don , a 99 - year - old in Sheringham who be pin his hope on a new kind of politic for the sake of his grandchild . the Bill introduce much - need reform of the House of Lords , which we Liberal Democrats of course support , but we know that it do not go far enough . we must establish a fully elect upper House — elect use a fairer voting system — as soon as possible . the House of Lords be only one part of our broken system , which need to see urgent , radical reform . the structure and organisation of government itself must evolve to be fit for the modern age , and that transformation must extend beyond government to the wide public service and administrative system that serve our citizen . continue with the current siloe structure of government be to ignore the technological advance of the past 50 year and fail to embrace the logarithmic advance in the future we be already live in . this evolution be about bring policy and service delivery close to the everyday life and need of people at every stage of their journey through life . the current structure be have a very real impact in rural area like mine , where our public service be in dangerous decline . Benjamin Court , a re - ablement centre in Cromer , have fall into the gap between two silo — social care , manage by the local authority , and health service , oversee by the NHS — lead to its closure . that be not to mention the desperate need for a properly network rural public transport service , which be key to enable access to everything from employment to healthcare , but it be out of those department ' scope and be instead leave languish at the bottom of the pile of priority by a near - bankrupt county council . these problem make the life of my constituent hard every day . we can not go on like this . but there be a solution : we can bring the design and delivery of service close to the need of citizen and there be plenty of precedence to go on here . in the industrial revolution , Thomas Edison make a profound contribution to rewire the way that industry be organise . prior to electricity generation , which he help to develop , there tend to be only one motor in a factory . industry have to be organise around a single source of power , usually a steam engine , with every machine that need power connect directly to the central drive shaft in the ceiling above . component could be make , yes , but they then have to be transport elsewhere and assemble , usually by hand . Energy be the central organise principle of industry , but electricity make it possible to pipe power to anywhere on the factory floor . it mean that machine could be place wherever they be need , become more precise , efficient and specialised , and it lead to mass manufacturing , with the product as the central organise principle of industry . over the past few year , we have go through another revolution that be potentially even big — the communication revolution . it be power not by the invention of electricity , but by datum . since the advent of the consumer web in the 1990 , people have come to expect a high degree of personalisation in their interaction with organisation and service . datum gather from a wide range of source — not just digital — be drive innovation and enable more tailored , proactive experience for user . this ability to be more pre - emptive and personalised do not even need people to be digitally enable . datum have enable the rewiring of industry , not around the production line or the product , but around the citizen , or user experience . that have cause profound change in the overall architecture of many modern organisation , but it have have limit impact on the way that Government and the state be structure . there be great innovation take place to try to integrate service and make they more patient or user centre , but without fundamental change in the underlie structure of power and public service , their effect will be limit . from tackle climate change and prevent sewage spill into the sea , to help people get work and get about — let alone get a dentist appointment — so much of the change this country badly need be not limit to one pillar of the state , but cross - cut different department . perhaps it be time to move away from the traditional silos of Secretaries of State for education , health , and transport , and instead adopt a more citizen - focus model . Imagine Secretaries of State for the citizen experience , for wellbeing and prosperity , for child or for datum and privacy . if people in North Norfolk be to get the change they deserve to our rural health and social care provision , to access and prosper in the job of the future and to trust politician as the custodian of our natural environment , we need to be prepared to rewire the structure of politic and public service delivery around the need of the people they — and all of we in this House — serve .