prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I understand that overnight , Ministers have brief out that they be pause negotiation with Canada over an update free trade agreement . while there may be good negotiating reason , and particularly good agricultural reason , for do so , there be implication if the pause in negotiation mean that there be no agreement to roll over an exist agreement on rule of origin on manufacture good for export to Canada . that could , for example , make british car and other manufacture good more expensive in canadian market . give that the Government ' s record on economic growth be so poor , and their record on trade negotiation be also poor , can the Speaker tell the House whether Ministers be go to make a statement to set out urgently why that pause be take place and how the cliff edge on rule of origin will be handle ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for his point of order , and for give notice of it . I have have no indication from the government that they intend to make a statement on this matter , but I be sure the occupant of the Treasury Bench have note the hon . member ' s remark . I will say that it be amazing how quickly the Government come to give good news ; I just hope that they will reflect on briefing matter out overnight . as I say , I always believe this House should hear first — it be a very clear message , but unfortunately it be not get through . let we hope it do this time . share Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . when I first discover that I have be successful in the ballot , as other member have be during this session , I receive request from organisation and group on all manner of worthy issue , yet my override thought be that I hope to take through legislation that would achieve meaningful change for individual and family on a day - to - day basis , and make their life that little bit less difficult . I put on record my thank to organisation such as Gingerbread and the Fawcett Society , which have offer invaluable support and guidance in aid the development of this Bill . in the tradition of the House work at its good when it work cross party , I place on the record my thank to the Minister , his official and the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , who be often forget and never thank for the invaluable work she do in support member in the passing of private member ' Bills . I sincerely thank the Minister and his official for the constructive and open way in which they have engage in find consensus to reach this point . I be confident that within the political dna of all member of this place be an aim to almost always undertake work that have the big impact — work that bring about the most meaningful change for the large group of people in society we can reach . in do so , however , we often miss the group in society who be forget or who fall through the legislative crack of loophole in our law . I be pleased to say that this Bill will not impact ten of thousand of people across the United Kingdom , because nobody in this House or in wide society would want it to . as its title state , it be fundamentally about the loss of a partner , wife or mother in childbirth , and about ensure that more of those leave behind have a right to leave in those most horrendous of circumstance . the House rightly have an annual debate on child loss , which impact too many people year after year . to I , it be an unimaginable grief , yet like so many issue , life event and tragedy , it can be leave unsaid and undebated if it be not raise by a Member . as a husband and a parent , I can not comprehend lose a partner in childbirth , or indeed what it be like for a child to lose either of their parent before their birth . the phrase , " it would make anyone ' s blood run cold , " be probably a grave understatement . the trauma be unimaginable , yet every year a proportion of family must endure that most tragic of circumstance : the unimaginable joy of become a parent , but face the devastating grief of lose the person you have plan the next part of your life with , and now have to somehow raise a child alone . like many colleague across the House , my party have be commit to boost and safeguard employment and parental right in recent decade . in recent year , Bills have be pass on neonatal care , support people with baby loss and , of course , share parental leave , but there be always much more to do . the Bill I have table seek to give a day - one right to leave for parent in the most tragic of circumstance who do not meet current continuity of service requirement , so that they have a guarantee leave entitlement to process the grief and change in personal circumstance , along with a job to return to when they be able to do so . I want to mention the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , who lead the charge on this issue when he introduce his ten - minute rule Bill in respect of his constituent Aaron . I will leave he to speak of those circumstance , but I pay tribute to he for the tenacious way that he have lobby on this issue over the past year . equally , in mention he I confess that this Bill be a little different — or perhaps a lot — from his original Bill , but for I this be about make progress on the issue . my sincere , genuine hope be that the Bill will be the start of a process and debate about make change to a specific area of law in the month and year to come . I be pleased that the Labour party , if give the privilege to serve our country follow the general election , whenever it come , have a plan to improve employment right , include those of new parent , so I hope I can lobby Labour Ministers in the year ahead . the number behind this issue be concern , and I be sorry to say that they be go in the wrong direction . datum release only a few week ago by MBRRACE , which monitor the cause of maternal death , stillbirth and infant death , highlight how the number of woman die each year during pregnancy , or soon after , have increase to its high level in 20 year , with 3 . 41 death per 100 , 000 woman . even more troubling be that black , asian and minority ethnic woman , and those in economically deprive area , be more severely affect . woman from ethnic background remain four time more likely to die during or after pregnancy , and those from asian background be twice as likely to die compare with caucasian woman . those be figure not see since the early 2000 . the UK Government ' s stated ambition be to halve maternal mortality rate between 2010 and 2025 , yet the number clearly paint a different picture . it be clear that with maternal death rise , more partner and spouse be be leave in the unenviable and heart - wrench circumstance of bring up a newborn , plan a funeral and adjust to life without their significant other . when deal with such a trio of issue , the last thing many will want to be think and worry about be leave from their employment . parental leave be something we should be proud of in this country , but it be by no mean perfect . make it easy and more accessible for individual in what can be incredibly difficult circumstance be something I be sure colleague across the House will support . when do a deep dive into the issue of leave , I be shock at just how low the take - up of share parental leave be in this country . only 1 % of eligible employee mother , at a time when maternal mortality right be rise , and only 5 % of eligible employee take up any share parental leave , accord to the parental right survey of 2019 . for many , even the process of get set up on the scheme be too arduous , with nearly 10 % of eligible mother and father state that it be too complex to set up and manage . furthermore , due to the strict eligibility criterion for spl , approximately 40 % of working father be leave without any leave entitlement . that include , but be not limit to , father whose partner be not work or not entitle to maternity leave , father who be in insecure work , father who change job after their partner become pregnant , and those father who be on low income . the Childhood Bereavement Network have make the important point that parent of baby may be particularly at risk of financial strain because they be young . their partner , who they have lose in childbirth , may have have less time to build up earning , make mortgage payment or contribute to pension scheme , and be less likely to have plan future finance . dad who be currently not entitle to SLP because of their own or their partner ' s insecure employment prior to death may therefore be among the most vulnerable financially . we have hear a lot about the stat and figure behind this issue , but it be important to name and understand the live experience behind those figure . I want to read , in his own word , what happen to Simon Thorpe . his live experience mean that now , as an employer himself , he support this change in the law : " my wife and I have our first child in August 2020 and 6 month later my wife be diagnose with terminal cancer . I work for a medium - sized charity in the north west as general manager , and I immediately ask my chairman to go part - time and work flexibly so I could help out with childcare and hospital appointment . work flexibly have become the new normal during covid anyway . my chairman and board agree , and to be honest they didn ' t have a choice , but I expect many other employer would not have be able to be so flexible . after five month , it become clear I couldn ' t carry on work in such a responsible position , and manage the childcare and hospital treatment requirement of my wife , so I resign and leave work in October 2021 and become a full - time carer and parent . fortunately my wife be receive full sick pay from her employer so I could afford to give up work . my wife die in August 2022 , and by not have a job I be in a well position to immediately deal with the aftermath , especially the childcare . look after my two - year - old son be the single most important task . however , as an employer myself , if one of my staff have be in my position of lose a partner , I would have be able to offer our standard three to five day ' compassionate leave . I now know first - hand that this would be totally inadequate , and would not even allow time to hold a funeral . it ' s true that after the funeral be when bereavement often hit hard . I ' m sure some employer would be as flexible as possible and offer a period of unpaid leave . three to five day might be fine for a distant relative , sible , or even a parent , but for loss of a spouse or even a child it be completely unthinkable that a person could return usefully to the workplace . the only other option would be to be sign off sick by a gp . I don ' t think any legislation can ' fix ' bereavement and every person respond to bereavement in a different way . there be no prescribable timescale for overcome a significant loss and be ready to return to work . however , provide a statutory basis for leave follow loss of a spouse , particularly in the case where there be a dependent child , seem a positive step . after all , there be two - week statutory paternity leave on birth of a child , but it be equally significant should a parent die that the survive parent be able to be present at home in the immediate aftermath . it ' s not just the emotional impact , it ' s the practical aspect of organise a funeral , the " deathocracy " paperwork that go on and on — probate , will , liaise with school or preschool and so on . in these moment think about work be the last thing on one ' s mind , but of course for many there will be a financial pressure , although Bereavement Support Payment have be a most unexpected source of income for I . " the Bill set out the follow change . it would make share parental leave and pay for a father or partner , where the mother of the child have die , a day - one employment right . while I recognise that there be already provision in law for share parental leave in the case of bereavement , that be subject to a strict continuity of employment test , as the Minister know . as it stand , for a mother ' s partner to take share parental leave , they must have be work for at least 26 week of the 66 week before the baby be due , and they must have earn at least £ 390 in total across any 30 of the 66 week . the partner must also have be employ continuously by the same employer for at least 26 week by the end of the 15th week before the due date . they must also stay with the same employer until they start their leave period . in short , that be a lot of fix condition in a world where people change job and career more frequently than in previous generation . the Bill would allow the Secretary of State to remove that test through regulation . that would effectively close the loophole that , for example , result in the constituent of the hon . member for Broxtowe not be entitle to share parental leave . accord to research carry out by the Childhood Bereavement Network , a child ' s need for stability follow a parent ' s death make it vital for the survive parent to be able to respond flexibly to they . the child ' s adjustment be often closely associate with the parent ' s capacity to care for they , include be physically available to they . we know that , thankfully , only a small percentage of family each year find themselves in such a position . therefore , after discussion with the Minister and his official , it be envisage that the Bill would not require a money resolution due to the relatively small financial cost incur by the Government , as it link to leave only . however , as I stress early in my speech , this be a first step . I have learn throughout my time in this place to not let the perfect get in the way of the good . while the Bill aim to give a day - one right to leave to those in insecure work , I hope it will open a broad debate on the employment right of not just those who work in secure role , but the grow number of constituent who work in insecure role . accord to a report publish by the TUC , the number of people in insecure work have increase from 3 . 2 million in 2016 to 3 . 9 million last year . furthermore , there have be a startling 132 % increase in absolute term of black , asian and minority ethnic person in insecure work . over the space of a decade , that figure have jump from 360 , 241 in 2011 to 836 , 339 . we also know that maternal mortality rate have be rise among the BAME community . dad in insecure work , such as agency work and zero - hour contract , be not eligible for leave , and those who be self - employ have little to no protection should they find themselves in such a situation . I recognise that the Bill focus on those in insecure work , but it be important to have a broad debate on paternity and maternity right . that be especially so when the figure be as clear as day in highlight the rapid rise in insecure work and mortality rate among pregnant woman . I hope that if the Bill pass its Second reading , it will open up that important debate . at present , there be a loophole in legislation that be leave some parent and guardian without sufficient time to grieve , plan and adjust to life without the mother of their child . I urge colleague to give due consideration to the Bill ' s pass at Second Reading . as I have state , the Bill would make a massive difference to a small number of case each year where family experience life - change circumstance . those be circumstance that none of we would want for anyone ; thankfully , many never face they . whether it be Aaron and his young son , or anyone who face this tapestry of grief and joy , stare at a life never plan , I believe it be this place ' s job to make life that little bit easy . I would argue that that be the very least we could do . I pay tribute to the cross - party effort lead by my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) and the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) to correct an injustice for parent deal with the challenge of lose their partner and gain a child and then not qualify for child leave or pay . they may even risk lose their livelihood . I pay particular tribute to individual campaigner such as the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe , Aaron Horsey , who have the courage and conviction to take up the cause on behalf of other while have to deal with the loss of Bernadette and bring up his son Tim . the backdrop to this important Bill — how we as a society handle bereavement — need some attention . death and grief be too often taboo that society struggle to handle , but all our life will be affect by bereavement at some point , whatever our age , background , religion or belief . we must do more to provide support for those who be bereaved and , indeed , those who be face bereavement . as a Christian , I recall Zechariah 7 : 10 in the Bible : " oppress not the widow , nor the fatherless , the stranger , nor the poor " . much debate , attention and action be direct to help support the poor , the stranger and the fatherless , but perhaps less attention and action be give to the widow or the widower . I recall a number of young widower know to I — such as Guy Hordern — who have have to face bereavement while raise small child without their wife and the mother alongside they , and then also have to face insecurity of employment . I also pay tribute to the UK Commission on Bereavement and its 2022 report , " Bereavement be everyone ' s business " . bishop be not always in politician ' good book , as the debate in the other place this week have demonstrate , but there be time for praise , and I want to praise the noble Lord Bishop of London , the chair of the commission . she say : " all of we will experience grief through the course of our life . it be a truly universal human experience , part and parcel of be mortal . and as with every aspect of life , we all experience it differently . " she continue : " the pandemic … have a profound effect on how those affect have experience bereavement . many people have be unable to see family and friend and … have limit access to formal support after their love one die . feel alone in their grief due to lockdown or have to shield or self - isolate have have a devastating impact . at the same time , the pandemic have also spotlight this universal human experience and present an important opportunity to consider how well equipped we be " — or perhaps be not — " to support people through a bereavement and how we should work together to improve that support both now and in the future . " in that context , the UK Commission on Bereavement be found , bring together 16 commissioner and an advisory group . through the commission ' s work , take detail write and oral evidence from well over 1 , 000 people , it have conduct one of the large ever consultation of bereaved people and professional work with they . the commission see time and again that we need to do more " as a whole society to support all those affect by bereavement . " however , ongoing taboo around grief and uncertainty about how to help inhibit support throughout our community , in school , college and workplace , even among those whose job put they in contact with bereaved people every day . the report state : " for those who need it , there be significant challenge to access formal emotional support . there ' s not enough of it , it ' s not accessible to all who need it , and certain group in society be particularly poorly serve . however , in addition to significant shortcoming in the provision of emotional support , people affect by bereavement often find it hard to get the support that they need with the ' practical ' challenge they face day - to - day — from register a death to access adequate financial support . overall , many people be not get the right support at the right time , with potentially serious consequence in all area , from health and wellbee to education and employment and even long term economic outcome . we must seize the opportunity to change this for the well " . this Bill be such an opportunity . we must not lose sight of the fact that all our life will be touch by bereavement . it be incumbent upon we all to work together to improve the experience of bereaved people . the commission ' s report set out clear recommendation for achieve that . the UK Government should establish and deliver a cross - departmental strategy for bereavement , as I believe the commission recommend . by make grief taboo , fear it and lock it away , we make it all the hard to comprehend and to support each other through it . we make it hard for people to access the help they need , be it simple flexibility from an employer , help with funeral cost or access to specialist bereavement support service . it be important that we do all we can to support those who suffer in this way . much in that report be not directly relate to the Bill , so I will not test Mr Speaker ' s patience far . Bereavement can often trigger financial insecurity and poverty . many people who experience bereavement be at particular risk of financial hardship and change to their material circumstance and living condition . that be especially the case for bereaved parent or spouse , where the bereavement commonly result in the loss of household income , and sometimes even in the bereaved person or family lose their home . such pressure add significantly to the stress already experience . overall , people be not get the right support they need . a parent need particular support in the early day , week and month with their child , and even more so when they have lose a partner . the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) make an incredibly touching speech . I think everyone in the House support the Bill . my hon . friend have be a leader in small business . on the fairly make point by the hon . member for Ogmore on share parental leave , how do my hon . friend think small employer should approach these issue ? for many year in my previous life I be a probate solicitor , so many bereaved people come to see I . there be real room for compassion when employer be face with someone who have recently be bereave . we all need to look at what we can do to support they . other employee be probably more than willing to chip in and give the support that they can , which would be especially need in a small business . that be also why , for many year , I have champion family hub . I be delighted that Department for Education family hub and start for life funding have enable 75 family hub to open and provide vital service for family with young child . we need to ensure the hub enable bereavement counselling and emotional and relational support for widow parent , especially after tragic and traumatic loss in childbirth . when enact , the Bill will plug a vital gap in share parental leave and pay for those who have not complete the six month of continuous service with an employer necessary to qualify . hon . member on both side of the House have serve their constituent and we well by shine a light on this issue and make it our business to sort it out . this Bill send a wide message that bereavement be everyone ' s business . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate and to support the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) . the only thing I wrestle with before make this contribution be make sure that I say " the hon . member for Ogmore " , not " the hon . member for Elmore " . I have achieve my purpose , and I be pleased to support he . the hon . Gentleman rightly encapsulate the benefit of these Friday debate and the process for consider private member ' Bills , with which I have not have an awful lot of engagement during my time in Parliament . I will come on to that . this morning , we can consider Bills of constitutional import and of infrastructural import for Stoke - on - Trent South , as well as a Bill on the theological pursuit of freedom of belief and justice , which be introduce by the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , and a Bill with practical and meaningful import introduce by the hon . member for Ogmore , who be right to suggest that it will not affect the masse . however , masse of people in our country should be greatly appreciative of the fact that he have take a step this morning so that , should sorrow or tragedy strike their family , this issue have be consider . he be lay the foundation stone to ensure that support will be there in such difficult circumstance . we should not have to stand here and reflect on the regressive fact that he have share with we . the statistic over the past 20 year have get bad for mother in childbirth who have need the state to respond appropriately , so I be glad that he be take action and have introduce the Bill . as a Northern Ireland Member , however , I reflect on the extent of the Bill . as it stand , it appropriately enable Ministers to make regulation that will amend act that apply to England , Scotland and Wales . I say , gently at this stage , that I can imagine that that be because our right in Northern Ireland , which mirror entirely the employment right of an Act of Parliament apply to England , Scotland and Wales , be proceed with through an order in Council . it might be worth consider — if , indeed , it be procedurally possible — whether the Bill , if it complete Second reading , could be amend to include Orders in Council . the Order in Council in Northern Ireland and the relevant Act in England , Scotland and Wales be exactly the same . with appropriate process for legislative consent , there would be no barrier , in my mind , to anyone from Northern Ireland seek to introduce the provision in the Bill . there would be no political reason or rationale for not do so . I make that point gently and constructively . I hope that when the Bill receive further consideration , a very slight augmentation may provide for inclusion across this United Kingdom of such an important measure . I should like to begin by give my heartfelt thank to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for secure a second reading for the Bill . I have be campaign to make this change in law since the issue be first bring to my attention by a constituent in February 2022 , so I be delighted to find out that the hon . Member have introduce a Bill to do that . as have be evident in previous debate , include on my ten - minute rule Bill on this topic , in which we receive support from member from every major political party , this be a measure that party can get behind . this be truly a cross - party Bill ; there be support for this issue right across the House . it be not divisive or controversial — it simply seek to allow individual who have lose their partner in childbirth the right to have time to spend with their new - bear child , without the need to have be previously employ for the 26 - week requirement . I have tell Aaron ' s story in the House on various occasion , but will continue to do so until the change be enact in law . in February 2022 , Aaron , who be in the Public Gallery today , come to my constituency surgery in Stapleford in Broxtowe . in his arm be Tim , his three - week - old son . Tim ' s mother Bernadette have tragically pass away during childbirth . Aaron , however , have not be employ by his company for the 26 week require by law to access share parental leave and pay . I have since that meeting feel that it be my purpose in this House , as well as represent my constituency , to right this wrong . in our modern society , people should not be force to choose between their family and their job . provide the security that allow a parent to take time off with their new - bear child , know they will return to their job , be essential . that be no less important for the sole survive parent than it would be for the birthing partner . as a father , I can not imagine be in the same situation as Aaron . we must do more to ensure that as much support as possible be in place for parent who find themselves in that incredibly difficult position . Aaron be lucky , because his company be kind enough to allow he the time he need , but other may not be in that position . instead of sit back quietly , however , Aaron be determined to make a change so that other do not find themselves unable to take leave . he have campaign alongside I for this change in law for two year , and I thank he for the bravery and determination he continue to show . this Bill be fairly unique in that it give something we can not often grant as member of Parliament : time . specifically , it give time to spend with a newborn follow tragic circumstance . it be time that , if miss , can not be regain . research show that baby undergo huge growth , brain development and neuron prune in the first two year of their life . the brain development of infant , include their social , emotional and cognitive development , often depend on a love bond or attachment relationship with a primary caregiver , usually a parent . researcher also find increase evidence in field such as neurobiology and development psychology study , that a lack of consistency in parental presence , such as if the remain parent be unable to take leave from work , can lead to long - term mental health problem , and to reduce overall potential and happiness . the evidence be clear that individual who have lose their partner in childbirth be able to take leave be a necessity for themselves and their child . we have a duty to ensure that that right be write in law and not leave up to the good will of individual company . the negative impact on business that employ individual in these circumstance have be raise as a concern in this area . some may have trepidation that such a change in law would cripple small business that can not afford this type of leave . to that point , I say that an incredibly small quantity of people and business would be affect ; this be not an issue that affect thousand . furthermore , if such leave be not allow , business could face lose a value employee — a situation that many would seek to avoid . I hope that the effect a change would have on business would be small in comparison to the benefit that would be gain by the individual receive leave . I be incredibly grateful that , thank to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) , we have the parliamentary time for today ' s vital debate . I also thank the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who have be incredibly helpful in bring the Bill to this stage . however , I must briefly put on the record my disappointment that this Bill will not include pay . the Bill go some way to ensure that support be in place for the small amount of people who find themselves in this situation , but it could go far . it be my hope that we do get to a stage where leave and pay be grant to those who find themselves in situation such as Aaron ' s , and it be regrettable that pay be not include today . leave , whether that be maternity leave , paternity leave or share parental leave , be create to allow a new parent to spend essential time with their new - bear child . in case such as this , it seem that the people for whom these type of leave be create to help be often the one miss out . when face with a life - altering set of circumstance , Aaron be affront by have to cope with the challenge of be a new parent , the prospect of a new job , insecurity , and all while in the midst of extraordinary grief . that be more than many of we could handle . this Bill be not controversial ; it simply seek to allow individual the right , under circumstance beyond their control , to take leave to be with their child . as I have mention previously , it be also not a Bill that will affect the vast amount of our population . it affect a small number in our society who need the help of this Government and their employer . if an individual fall through this gap , they could find themselves face with the choice of lose their job or lose spending time with their new - bear child — not a choice anybody should have to make . to summarise , we have a gap in our law . it do not affect a huge amount of people in the UK , but those that it do affect feel the impact . the Bill will ensure that individual who lose their partner in childbirth have the assurance that they will have leave , no matter how long they have be employ by their company , to take that crucial time to be with their child . the alternative may be company lose value employee and new father become unemployed during one of the hard moment of their life . we have the opportunity to change that today . I will wind up my remark today by thank all those who have get we to this point : the hon . member for Ogmore , the official , the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my parliamentary team , Lillie Grant and Joshua Stefan , all those who have contribute today , and lastly , and most importantly , Aaron . thank you . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I commend the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for introduce this important bill , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , who I understand have also attempt to introduce a similar Bill previously . it be difficult for we to imagine the impact and trauma a family must go through on the loss of a mother during childbirth . besides all the emotional impact of that loss of a love one , the parent that remain have all the pressure of care for the newly arrive baby and any other child without their other half . at a time when the family will be go through huge distress and the challenge of keep the family go , it be only right that the father and other parent figure can be give all the support possible to get through such challenging circumstance . as a parent myself with two young child , I would certainly find it near on impossible to cope with the loss of my wife and all that she do . I be sure member across the House would agree that our other half take on a huge amount , so to lose one in such a tragic circumstance be impossible to imagine . though it be difficult for we to think about , those who lose their partner in childbirth must find a way of continue life without they , and manage , without much thought for themselves , for the sake of their child and raise a newly bear baby alone . in those challenging circumstance , it be clear to I , as it will be to member across the House , that time off work will be need to sort out a number of issue and most importantly to care for and look after the newly arrive baby . as the father of two child , I know the round - the - clock attention new baby need from a parent . such parent should have an equal right to be grant the same parental leave . the baby should be at the top of the list of priority , without their parent have to worry about how they can juggle everything , cope alone and fight for time off work . as the hon . member for Ogmore say , to qualify for leave currently an individual must be continuously employ by the same employer for at least 26 week by the end of the 15th week before the baby ' s due date . for someone to be deny this leave simply because of the length of time they have work for an employer be totally outrageous . the Bill be likely to be of benefit to only a small number of people each year , as have be mention , but it be necessary to address the injustice of their exclusion from the parental leave they so desperately need . although I recognise the potential impact of this change on employer , it be far outweigh by the impact on those family who find themselves in this circumstance . this flexibility be also potentially beneficial for employer as it enable they to retain an employee in the workforce . without that supportive approach , a parent may find themselves in the impossible situation of have no choice but to give up work to look after their new baby . I fully support the Bill . where a mother have die , remove the continuity of employment condition for the father or partner will ensure that family who have be through such difficult trauma get the basic entitlement that they deserve and can bring up their new baby as a parent should . I hope the Bill have a successful passage through the House and the other place . I suspect the population of the United Kingdom be not grip by Parliament TV at the moment , but I wish they be , because debate such as this show the humanity of member of the House . this whole discussion be base on humanity , and it say a lot about the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) that he have take on a Bill that my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have work on to bring about positive change . when I become a Member of Parliament , I think how difficult it be to change the life of thousand of people in one go , but if we can change the life of one person in a positive way , even if it be in very tragic circumstance , it be a worthwhile thing for we to do , so I be pleased to take part in this debate . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a practise solicitor and partner in a firm of solicitor . People have different view on whether that be a good or a bad thing , but I would like to think that I work hard as an MP . when we talk about employment right , even in the most tragic of circumstance , I sometimes feel that the view of small employer , the backbone of our economy , be not represent , and I will give a few thought on that today . as my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe have rightly say , some of the commentary on the Bill have be about how employer would react to such circumstance . when I come down here to be a Member of Parliament , include on a Friday , I be very lucky that I have a wife who run a business , look after two child , look after a dog , look after a family , and do literally everything in respect of that . she have the pressure of life on she , and she maintain a business in challenge circumstance ; we employ approximately 20 people . she be my template when I think what she would make of the Bill . we be a business that do not make vast fortune of money ; we rely on treasured and important employee be able to create income so that we can pay wage . none the less , I do not believe , unless my hon . friend have be tell something different , that a small business , even in the most challenging circumstance , would seek to terminate the employment of somebody who have go through such a bereavement . we must have faith not only in the word that we say in this place , but in the humanity of the people we represent . face with these circumstance , the small business that I know up and down the country would , I think , rise to the challenge , and support in exactly the way that my hon . friend have describe . it be sometimes difficult to talk in this Chamber about thing of which we have no personal experience , but as Aaron be in the Public Gallery today , I can say that both he and Tim can be very proud and please that good will come from tragic circumstance . on the wide issue , both party share a commitment to share parental leave and employment right . I would like to say that it be not a political issue , but it be important to note that we have see development under this Government , such as carer ' leave and flexible working , to try to respond to the challenge , many of which come from covid . those development ensure that the nuance of people ' s everyday life be recognise and that they be support , because they have much to contribute to our economy . in the circumstance we have hear about today , it be not anyone ' s fault that a person be put in that position , but we can not , through prejudice , hinder people who have so much to offer and so much to support local business with . with regard to bereavement , the pandemic bring that very much to the fore for many of we . I have two child , Alexander and Teddy — we all take the opportunity to mention our child ' s name . I can not imagine — no , it be too much to think about . I lose my dad during the pandemic . my dad , who be a very rumbustious , lively man , be a big part of my life . when he pass away , sadly the covid regulation be in place , so we be perhaps unable to come to term with his death , or to celebrate his life and speak to his friend and wide family in the way we would have like . Bereavement , in its wide sense , affect people in different way in the workplace , and I think there be an ongoing debate . my friend the hon . member for Ogmore say that this be a starting point for the debate , and the issue of how bereavement impact people be very important . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) also make a valid point on that subject . do my hon . friend agree that what be propose would actually benefit the employer who provide that , because they would retain the employee in the workforce in the long term , rather than lose they , which would have a negative impact on their business ? I completely agree . the great challenge in the modern economy be productivity . I can not express how difficult it be to recruit good staff who be productive — it be genuinely incredibly difficult . that take I back to the point that employer will do just about anything to retain productive staff , which be what we want to see . I be here last Friday , when the House be debate a different subject , and the question often ask be why we should legislate on such matter . it be important that this House , and through it our democratic will , guide employer on what we feel be matter of importance and priority , and this be another example of a Bill that do that . make employer aware that this be an issue that our democratically elect Parliament feel be important be incredibly important . do my hon . friend agree that business also need to consider leave and pay if they be to retain good staff ? that be absolutely correct . obviously there be bad employer , but the colleague I know who run their own business , who value their employee , would certainly not resile from their responsibility to those employee . I appreciate the point about legislation , but we must have faith that employer will rise to the challenge . I think very few employer — I be sure there be some bad example — would resile from that challenge . before we we have a Bill that state Parliament ' s clear view that a grave injustice must be remedie . it be an honest bill that say it be the start of a journey , a discussion not only about how we can build on the Bill , but how flexible working and other employment legislation can develop and respond to the modern economy . I have severe concern about flexible working from home . my local authority tell I that a lot of people be no long work in the town centre , which be have a hugely detrimental impact on the high street . the Bill be part of sensible and pragmatic employment legislation , and part of an ongoing response to the modern economy and modern need that understand the nuance and difference in people ' s life . any Bill that touch a person ' s life in a positive way should be fight for , and this be a good Bill . I encourage the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , to think about the point our hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) make about bereavement counselling . there be in my constituency a wonderful charity that deal with the consequence for parent of suicide and support parent and carer in those circumstance . in this ongoing debate , we need to think about how the state can invest in service that give people the good chance to come to term with horrific event . we be a good Parliament , our be a good country , and this debate show that . it show humanity and reflect our belief that employer will rise to the challenge the Bill set . I think Aaron and Tim will forever be proud of what have happen here today . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) , who make some important point to which I will return . at the outset of my speech , however , I will take the opportunity to praise my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) . he already have a reputation as an impressive and skilful operator in the House , and the way he present his Bill today will only add to that reputation . Labour Members want his Bill to make progress today , and perhaps to open up a broad debate about employment right . have take through a private Member ' s Bill a long time ago , I know just how much work it take to get such legislation through . the way my hon . friend appear to have secure support across the House for the Bill to make progress today be certainly encouraging . the Bill be important because of the case the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have raise many time in this place , and again today , which do he credit . I believe he have raise the case in Parliament at least three time previously — in a 10 - minute rule Bill , in a question to the Prime Minister , and in an Adjournment debate in December . I congratulate he on take up from his constituency advice surgery the case of Aaron Horsey and pursue it as he have . I share my hon . friend ' s opinion that the situation Mr Horsey find himself in be truly awful . it certainly be not right that in those circumstance Mr Horsey be not entitle to any parental leave . although he be clearly lucky in his employer , to whom we should give credit , it be right that we begin to close the loophole in the law that Mr Horsey ' s case have expose . obviously that can not bring Mr Horsey ' s partner Bernadette back — and we pay tribute to and remember she today as well — but , although this be outside the scope of the Bill , her pass be a reminder of the need to keep maternal mortality at the forefront of our mind . the Bill give we a chance to consider the almost unimaginable grief of lose a partner who have just give birth to a new - bear baby . it be clearly wrong to expect the other partner to bring up the baby alone while be worried about their employment status , and that need to be resolve . let I say again that I welcome the manner in which my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore have pick up the issue on which the hon . member for Broxtowe have campaign , and the fact that the House have an opportunity to begin to close that loophole . fortunately , the tragic scenario that Mr Horsey have bring to the House appear to be very rare — the death of a mother during or soon after childbirth be thankfully a very rare event in our country . nevertheless , I understand that 261 mother pass away within 42 day of give birth between 2019 and 2021 , and that be 261 too many . each of those case represent a tragic loss for their family and friend . in most of those case the father or partner will have be eligible for share parental leave because they meet the eligibility requirement , and in most case they could have take over their partner ' s parental leave and , crucially , the entitlement to statutory pay that would have be share by both parent have the mother survive . in some case , however , as my hon . friend have explain , a father or partner who do not meet the continuity of employment test and be not entitle to share parental leave be leave in the awful position , potentially , of have to care for their new - bear baby , while grieve the loss of their partner , and yet have no guarantee of parental leave . it be clearly right for we to close that gap . before I move on to the wide debate about right to paternity leave and employment right , I want to reflect on some of the other contribution that we have hear this morning . the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) do the House a service by mention the work of the UK Commission on Bereavement and the challenge face by her constituent when experience bereavement of this kind and then bring up small child . she be also right to make a wide point about bereavement still be a taboo , and the difficulty of deal with the issue of grief and loss that our friend and member of our community feel . that need to be explore . as she rightly say , thought must be give to how we provide well access to emotional support , and the bereavement commission be already do important work to ensure that people have access to practical help and support and do not have to worry about their employment situation or , perhaps , access to benefit . the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) be also supportive of the Bill and make some positive comment in the debate . the hon . member for Broxtowe have be quietly impressive when speak about this issue in the House . normally I would be hold a surgery on a Friday , and I think it right for Members , when it be appropriate , to bring the individual problem of those who attend their surgery to the Floor of the House . that be one of the unique thing about our democracy and , despite all its challenge , it be why our democratic system continue to be arguably the good in the world . I commend the hon . member for Broxtowe for his support for Mr Horsey , who I hope will take some comfort from the cross - party support for the work of his Member of Parliament and , indeed , for this Bill . the hon . Gentleman rightly raise the question of potential cost for employer and the fear that some might have about those cost , but he rightly note that the cost implication be very limited , which be another reason to support the Bill . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) eloquently support the case for the Bill . he rightly say how awful a prospect it would be for any of we to lose our partner , in any circumstance , particularly when our child be young and have round - the - clock need . the trauma of lose a partner at the moment of a baby ' s arrival be almost unimaginable . the hon . member for Bury North helpfully describe the mutual humanity of Members on both side of the House , and he speak about the cross - party work to get the Bill to this stage . Cross - party work do not often get much attention and have plenty of detractor but , in this case , there be clear evidence of its benefit . I do not wish to put the hon . gentleman on the spot , but I want to raise an issue in this ongoing conversation . do he believe that the House should far consider bereavement leave ? I mention the Big Fandango , a charity that support family follow a suicide . old parent may well be grieve the loss of child in very tragic circumstance , so we need a wide debate on how we support people go through bereavement . this Bill be a good starting point . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point , and it be one of the reason why I be particularly keen to praise the work of the UK Commission on Bereavement , which the hon . member for Congleton raise . I hope there will be a debate , and perhaps the Backbench Business Committee will be receptive to the case for one . in 2003 , my party introduce the first entitlement to paternity leave . I be very pleased to vote for it and , indeed , to take paternity leave follow the birth of my child . I welcome the Government ' s introduction of share parental leave but — and I say this gently , because I do not want to spoil the positive , cross - party discussion on this Bill — it have perhaps not go as well as we might all have hope , with just 2 . 8 % of partner decide to take it up . my understanding be that the Government ' s evaluation of share parental leave have note a series of problem . some seven in 10 employer , while be aware of share parental leave , be not actively promote it to their employee , and a third of mother and nearly half of father who do not take share parental leave have not even hear of it . there be clearly issue with the take - up of share parental leave and , if not today , it would be good to hear from the Minister how the Government plan to address those issue . my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore have secure support across the House for this important Bill , which will address a very particular loophole . we certainly want to see it progress and have its Second reading . may I first thank the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for bring the Bill before the House , and all the other hon . member who have speak on this important matter today ? he have be incredibly constructive and pragmatic in our deliberation on what we should do in this area , and I thank he for that . it be always a pleasure to work with he on this issue , and we have work together on a number of issue over the year . I would like to express my wholehearte agreement with the intent behind the hon . member ' s Bill . his speech be incredibly touching and he speak passionately about the need for the Bill , but also about the devastating impact on individual . his point about the future plan of one ' s life suddenly go to ashe be incredibly powerful , and I express my sympathy for Mr Thorpe , whom he refer to in his speech . it be always a great pleasure to take forward legislation that make a meaningful difference . I be lucky enough to take through Parliament two private Member ' s Bills prior to become a Minister . one be on parental bereavement leave , and people ask , " why do this not exist in the first place ? " when people say that to we , as I be sure they have say to the hon . member about his Bill , we know we be on the right track . in my experience , we normally do not do these thing on our own — we do they jointly — and his work with my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have be really important in bring the Bill forward . it be clear that we should look at what more we can do to support employ parent who lose their partner around the time of their child ' s birth and who do not currently qualify for statutory leave entitlement because they do not meet continuity of service requirement — that is , they have not be in the job for the require length of time to qualify . the principle of this Bill have support across the House , and I be pleased to hear that reflect in the debate . again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe , who have long campaign on this issue . we meet his constituent in my early day as a Minister , and I thank he for bring it to the House ' s attention . we be always keen to do something when we could , and I be delighted to say that we now have the right time and space to do this . it be a pleasure to meet he and his constituent Mr Horsey , who be in the Gallery today , in the Department the year before last . I be sure the whole House will join I in express our condolence to Mr Horsey for the loss of his wife Bernadette and in send our good wish to he and their son Tim . I will take the time to address some of the point raise by hon . member today , but I will first put on the record why the Government support the intent behind this legislation . lose a partner be a truly devastating experience for anyone . the combination of the terrible grief and , as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) say , loneliness in these situation — the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , call it " unimaginable " , which be an apt description — with the challenge of care for a new baby must be incredibly hard . my deep sympathy go out to anyone who find themselves in this terrible position . the United Kingdom have a generous range of entitlement and protection design to support parent to balance their family and work commitment and maintain their place in the labour market while raise their child — for example , maternity leave and pay , paternity leave and pay , and share parental leave and pay , among other . maternity leave be rightly available from the first day of a woman ' s employment , recognise the special circumstance of pregnant woman and new mother . parental leave and share parental leave be not day - one leave entitlement for mother , father and partner ; all parent must meet continuity of service requirement . as such , if a mother die in the first year of a child ' s life , a father or partner who have not meet continuity of service requirement for paternity leave or share parental leave will not have the statutory right to take leave so that they can care for the child . in those tragic but , thankfully , rare circumstance , they will need to rely on the compassion of their employer to provide they with adequate leave and job security . as the hon . member for Ogmore say , though , some of these people be fall through the crack . the intent of the Bill be to provide more support for the grieve and survive parent when their spouse or partner have tragically pass away . the legislation will support people in those terrible circumstance to take time away from work to care for their new baby , without the risk and associated stress of be make to return to work before they be ready to do so . I be delighted that the Government be able to support this positive development in the parental leave and pay system . however , as be the case with any legislation , it be crucial to ensure that it be not only well intentione , but practical and effective in achieve its intended effect . it be therefore important that I set out to the House today , as I have previously discuss with the hon . member for Ogmore , the Government ' s view that the Bill will require amendment in Committee to fully achieve its intended change and operate effectively alongside exist parental leave legislation . I be delighted that the hon . Member have agree to work with I to do that , and that we have a share understanding of the need to create a legislative framework that not only support family in their time of need , but do so in a way that be clear , fair and effective . committee stage provide we with the opportunity to fine - tune the detail of the Bill and address any potential gap , issue or inconsistency to ensure that it achieve its intended purpose . I will , of course , provide more information on the necessary change ahead of Committee stage , but I will take a moment to highlight some of the area in which we be consider amendment . first , we will need to consider what type of parental leave good meet the intention of the Bill . secondly , we will need to analyse whether it be right to confine its scope to the death of the mother , or whether it should make broad provision for the death of other parent . thirdly , we need to make sure that the change we make integrate well into the wide framework of parental leave legislation . finally , we intend to remove the pay element from this entitlement — I will explain why shortly . the hon . member for Ogmore and I be in agreement on the removal of the pay element . as member will have see , the text of his Bill do not refer to pay , although I hear and understand his clear ambition to include it at a future stage . I concur with his point , though , that we should never let the perfect be the enemy of the good . all the UK ' s statutory parental pay entitlement have a continuity of service requirement , include statutory maternity pay , statutory paternity pay , statutory share parental pay and statutory adoption pay . they be design to ensure that a parent have make a reasonable contribution towards their employer ' s business before that employer be require to administer statutory parental payment . continuity of service requirement be design to achieve a balance between the need of employer and those of work parent . I will be able to give more detail in Committee on the change we intend to make to the Bill . in the spirit of collaboration , I encourage all member to engage constructively in Committee . our priority be to work together to deliver a piece of legislation that meet the need of bereaved family , provide they with the support they require during one of life ' s most challenging chapter . in response to the shadow Minister ' s point about worker ’ right , the Government be commit to support the participation and progression of parent in the labour market to ensure that it be fair and work for parent . our 2019 manifesto pledge change to enhance worker ’ right and support people to stay in work . the Government have deliver on those commitment by support a package of six private member ' bill help new parent , unpaid carer and hospitality worker ; give all employee easy access to flexible working ; and give worker a right to request a more predictable working pattern . we have be pleased with the successful progress of that legislation through Parliament , where it have receive cross - party support , result in six act successfully receive Royal Assent . the Government have already make good progress on lay secondary legislation in due course to implement those new act . the Employment Relations ( Flexible Working ) Act 2023 , for example , will give all employee with 26 week ' continuous service the right to request flexible working , empower employee to ask for a working arrangement that suit they and their unique circumstance . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 8MC . ] ( Correction ) I take the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) about homeworke . flexible working do not necessarily mean homeworke ; it can mean different working time to suit people ' s parental responsibility — for example , different time during holiday — and it do not necessarily mean that people have to work from home . he be right to say that worker should work where they be most effective , and where employer require they to be . the protection from Redundancy ( Pregnancy and Family Leave ) Act 2023 will provide great protection to woman who be on maternity leave or an employee who be on adoption or share parental leave in a redundancy situation . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 8MC . ] ( Correction ) that legislation will help to clamp down on poor or inappropriate practice , such as discriminate against pregnant woman or new mother , or wait for a woman to return from maternity leave , and when the current protect period end make her redundant . the Employment ( Allocations of Tips ) Act 2023 will make it unlawful for business to hold back tip , gratuity and service charge from employee , ensure that staff receive the tip they have earn . this package of legislation will increase workforce participation , protect vulnerable worker , and level the play field , ensure that unscrupulous business do not have a competitive advantage . the legislation build on the strength of our flexible and dynamic labour market , and give business the confidence to create job and invest in their workforce , allow they to generate long - term prosperity and economic growth . protect and enhance worker ’ right while support business to grow remain a priority for this Government . we be determined to build a high - skilled , high - productivity , high - wage economy . a key part of the UK ' s economic resilience be our strong , flexible , and dynamic labour market . it be a labour market that give business the confidence to create job and invest in their workforce , and allow they to generate long - term prosperity and economic growth . it be a labour market that rightly bear down on unscrupulous employer , and protect those keep to good working practice , promote more competition in UK market to build a high - skilled , high - productivity , high - wage economy . do my hon . friend agree with the point I raise my speech , that we should not denigrate employer ? Most employer in this country support their staff , be keen to invest in skill to improve productivity , and be keen to ensure that they take whatever step necessary to keep employee who be key to the future of the business , no matter what personal circumstance someone be face at that time . my hon . friend have great experience , and it be great to hear from people with experience at the sharp end of business . it be not an easy place to be . I have a fairly long business career myself for 30 year before politic , and we know that people be our most precious asset . it be good business to look after our workforce , not only because of the individual concern and the loyalty that bring , but because of the loyalty of other member of the team when they see how someone be treat their staff . it be important to recognise that what we be legislate for be not a ceiling , but a floor . it be a minimum period of leave that people can be offer , and of course the minimum level of pay . clearly an employer can pay more than that expect by law , and I know that many employer do so . I understand that Mr Horsey be well treat by his employer . that illustrate that most employer be good employer , and we in the House should always recognise that when we be legislate . we want a labour market that promote competition and choice , so that consumer have confidence in market , and business compete on a level playing field . turn to the specific point , the hon . member for Ogmore raise a point about the number of people affect . maternal death — the number of people who pass away during pregnancy or within 42 day of that — be around 290 , as he say . some will have continuity of service requirement . we therefore think that this legislation will benefit just under 50 people a year . that be our good guesstimate , because there be so many different move part , but that be the kind of number we be talk about . that be not a huge number , but the legislation be very important to those affect by it . I note the hon . member ' s point principally about pay . it be a first step on the road , but it be a very important step , and future government — of whatever colour they may be — may go far . he also raise the complexity and take - up of share parental leave . take - up be in line with estimate and have double over the past few year . in July 2021 , the share parental leave tool be deploy . the tool enable parent to check their eligibility and plan their leave , and it have be well receive . I think that also cover the point raise by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West . the hon . member for Ogmore also ask why parent with other employment status , such as the self - employ , be not entitle to this support . the Government ' s support be focus on employ parent , as they do not generally have the same level of flexibility and autonomy over how and when they work as self - employ parent . employee have a contractual requirement to work regular hour and have an employer who have control over when they work , where they work and how their work be do . due to that , employee have the great level of employment protection , to balance the lack of flexibility that their employment type provide in other way . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North talk in his intervention and his speech about the burden on business . obviously , all legislation should include an impact assessment , include a financial impact assessment on business . the impact assessment result be de minimis — I think that be below £ 5 million , which be not a significant impact . we therefore do not think that the change will create a significant burden on business . we have engage with business representative organisation and payroll professional throughout the policy development of these change . they have respond positively and understand how the change will increase flexibility for family . we be work with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to plan communication with business to ensure that they fully understand the new arrangement , and we will continue to engage with they while we finalise guidance to ensure the smooth introduction of these change . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 9mc . ] ( Correction ) my hon . friend the Member for Congleton rightly talk about the UK Commission on Bereavement and the important work that it do . she also refer to a cross - departmental bereavement strategy , which may include bereavement counselling for people in key situation . that be a little outside my remit , but she may continue to press for that across Government . I would indeed support that . not many people want to talk about bereavement — certainly not as death approach — but there be a well understand concept , particularly in hospice , of such a thing as a good death , where family be encourage to get together to talk , include with the person whose life on this earth be come to an end , about how issue may be well resolve . those might be difference that have occur over many year , but can also be practical issue surround the death , where involve everyone be a good thing . such work have a lot to commend it . I thank my hon . friend for those point . as the hon . member for Ogmore state , bereavement affect all of we . society be probably more open than it be when I be a young child , and I think we be now well at deal with these matter and get they out in the open . there be good way to deal with bereavement — well way to deal with it than we experience in the past — and some of the counselling offer by expert must be a good thing . we certainly have a lot of engagement on that during our consideration of the Parental Bereavement ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2018 , which I deal with . that obviously cover the loss of a child , and in this context there be nothing more devastating than the death of a child . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe again on get to where he have get with this legislation . I know he would have love to have take it through the House himself , but these thing be a team effort . he understandably ask for an explanation as to why the entitlement will not include pay . in response , I flag that no statutory parental leave entitlement , include maternity leave , have pay available from an employee ' s first day in a new job . that be because , apart from small business , employer be require to contribute towards the cost of statutory parental pay , as well as meet the cost and burden associate with their employee ' s absence from work and the administration around that . I think he would accept that this legislation be a floor , not a ceiling , and that good employer will go far and in some case much far than the legislation . I thank the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for his comment . I be pleased he support this legislation . understandably , he talk about Northern Ireland , and my official in the Box today have rightly have conversation with their counterpart in Northern Ireland , and we be keen to continue those discussion . clearly employment law be a devolved matter for Northern Ireland . indicate dissent . employment law be a devolved matter for Northern Ireland , I understand , but we will continue those conversation . I note his point about an order in Council , and we will take forward discussion on that . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) speak passionately about this issue , and he reflect on what it would mean for he as a husband and father . he rightly talk about how this be a great injustice and how we need to address it , and I be pleased to tell he that that be exactly what we be do . to conclude , the Government support the Bill ' s intent as an important extension of support and protection for those parent who have to face one of the most challenging and tragic situation . the Government take pride in endorse this private Member ' s Bill , ally our effort with an unwavering commitment to bolster worker ' support and cultivate a high - skilled , high - productivity and high - wage economy . it be always good to see support from across the political spectrum , and no less than that have be on show today in this House . this be a hugely important measure , as have be clearly set out in today ' s discussion . again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe for his unwavering support and advocacy for parent who find themselves in this tragic position . he have be pivotal in bring this issue to the forefront of our mind and this legislation forward . it be a pleasure to work again with the hon . member for Ogmore , and I look forward to work with he to support the passage of the Bill . with the leave of the House , I thank all the member who have speak today : the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) , for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , as well as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) . I thank the Minister for his closing remark . it be to the credit of the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) that he be able to convince an Opposition Whip to take forward a bill from a Government Member , but actually this be not about party politic . death and bereavement , as the hon . member for Congleton say , affect every single one of we , and one of the misconception about politician be that we be not human , but we all breathe and live the same life and be impact by many of the issue that the hon . member for Broxtowe have champion over the past two year . I thank member for their comment . I want briefly to talk about what happen to Aaron and the 50 people in a year whom the Bill may impact , as the Minister reference . I would rather this Bill be not need , because I wish that there be no mortality of mother give birth in this country , but the reality be that for those who face it , it become an unimaginable grief . there be the joy of have a child , while have to bury the person with whom they be plan the next chapter of life and the rest of their life . speak as the parent of a child who will be three on Sunday , I can not comprehend even three year into raise a toddler manage that without my wife . it be with that sense that I be glad there be cross - party support . I be glad to have be able to work cross - party with the Minister to ensure that we make this progress . he and I work on a number of issue over the year before he gain the dizzy height of high office . as I say in my speech , we must not let the perfect get in the way of the good . I will carry on champion this issue with my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West , who I hope will be on the Government Benches follow the general election , to ensure that we bring about more change . I will also carry on work with Conservative Members to support people in bereavement , talk about it and ensure that the issue be always raise as something that everyone face across the political divide . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) Bill Second read they say that first impression count . often for our town , the first impression that visitor will consciously draw be of the high street . certainly , it be the high street that most often leave the last impression of what a town be all about . it be key to the town ' s character . strikingly , 72 % of british adult survey by Nationwide Building Society go as far as say that they judge the vitality of an area as a whole base on the high street alone . some high street be beautiful and thriving place , and there will be lesson to learn from they , but even some of those will be struggle against retail trend , not least in banking . that be the point of Nationwide ' s survey , because it make much of its commitment to maintain a local branch network . its marketing strategy be an informed one : 71 % of people tell Nationwide that they still feel that their own local high street be an important part of the community . however , 67 % say that theirs have decline , with 62 % say that it have be neglect ; 54 % say that their high street have insufficient variety , and only 38 % say that their local high street adequately fulfil their shopping requirement . More than a fifth — 21 % — would go as far as describe their local high street as a generally unpleasant place in which to shop . that be deeply disappointing , not least because these finding be from a January 2020 survey , almost immediately prior to the covid lockdown and all the challenge that have come since , include post - pandemic inflation and Putin ' s illegal war against Ukraine . however disappoint the finding , they will not come as any great surprise to member across the House . the state of our high street be an issue that exercise we all , and be regularly raise by our constituent follow the incessant move online and out of town . none the less , it will depress we all that the single most common word choose to describe local high street — and the only word pick by more than a fifth of respondent — be " sad " . the second - place word be " bleak " . this be not present as a word cloud , but it be easily imaginable as one . the third most common word choose by respondent when describe their local high street be " indifferent " . that be clearly not where we want to be , because the unique and localised character of our high street play such a key role in define the vitality of the surround wide community . nor do it give confidence to those want to visit or thinking of invest in our high street . fortunately , the survey result be not just a list of gripe . the survey go on to ask what people think could be do constructively to improve thing for the high street . the five key improvement that people want be : few empty shop , more big - name shop , more greenery , less litter , and well decorate shopfront and sign . I certainly recognise the picture that the hon . Member be paint . in Bristol we have 47 high street and local centre . some be thrive , but it have be very difficult to revitalise other . Bristol City Council have be very active , and some of the thing he mention be within the council ' s control , but other be down to the market . on address the empty shop , will he talk about what tool council could use that would not cost huge amount of money , to ensure that high street can thrive in the way he would like ? I agree entirely that this be not just about local authority . they play an integral and important role , but there be multiple stakeholder and partner — community , business and property owner — that also play an important role . the importance of the Bill be in provide vision and focus through local authority bring together people and stakeholder in our high street to come up with a plan of action to deal with some of these issue . we must always pause to wonder whether a list of apparently quick and easy win be indeed quick , easy and affordable to deliver . " easy say than do " be often the narrative , but I fear that this have become an excuse for those who be avoid take difficult decision and necessary action . many of our high street — for example , Market Street in Longton , a once bustling high street with many heritage building of iconic character — be now in a sorry state . many owner be absent and take little or no responsibility for their property , in some case deliberately allow it to become derelict . I recently uncover the fact that , shockingly , in the last 12 month , Stoke - on - Trent City Council have not issue a single section 215 enforcement notice against property owner who fail to maintain their property . it be clear that action be need . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . his Bill would require local authority to designate at least one and up to three high street . do the definition of high street refer specifically to street , or do it take in all the street in the wide town centre area ? I will explain some of that shortly , but the Bill focus on the core retail centre that be see in many of our town centre , which may be one or more street — a collection of street . the purpose of the Bill be to place a duty on local government to pause to consider properly what can be do , and to develop an action plan that can be deliver and that will work toward get our high street back on track . retailer and big - name shop will come only where there be demand and the condition be right — where footfall be generate and physical retail that be neither online nor out - of - town be de - risk . People still value high street as a place for retail , but that alone can not be the solution . they want the right mix of shop and leisure in the right public realm , with other attraction , such as a temporary event , to encourage footfall and dwell time . the mix need to be get right for each high street . the big risk that big - name store will face be that of be accuse by some of gentrify a high street — quite possibly the same people who accuse they of betray any high street they leave . such be life , but we must not be daunt , because as we all see in the news this week , the prize for get it right could include the welcome return to the high street of Woolworths in its new iteration . I honestly do not think anyone could misconstrue the return of Woolies to the high street as gentrification — not without considerable bad faith , anyway . plenty of we would champion its heartening reversal of decline . sadly , the former Woolworths store in Longton in my constituency be in a very sorry state . the problem be not that it have not be reoccupie ; it have be , but the occupier after woolworth have far neglect and detract from the high street and now the store be empty again . Most people be clear that they do not want high street to be leave in a spiral of decline , however " gritty " that make they as urban space . they want the preservation of the historic fabric and character that a high street bring , alongside enhancement that make it relevant to the future and attract new and interesting use . the reality of the decline of the former Woolworths in Longton be that the building have be raid more than once as a cannabis factory , with the raid take place in a two - year period . at the time of the second closure in summer 2021 , 1 , 500 cannabis plant be find and remove . covid restriction play a part in help to conceal what be go on , and make people wary of go to our high street , but even without covid , the building be a cannabis factory 22 month previously . more recently , a board - up and abandon takeaway on the other side of the road be raid for cannabi grow in the past eight week . that former takeaway have pointedly be report in press coverage as be within sight of Longton police station . it be certainly my assertion that the police and crime prevention be key to preserve and enhance the character of our high street . work alongside our excellent police , fire and crime commissioner for Staffordshire , Ben Adams , I have be delight recently to secure safe street funding , which will play a significant role in upgrade CCTV coverage in Longton , as well as enable a number of other crime prevention measure such as gate off alleyways . our high street need more footfall , not less , and more dwell time , not less . it be vital that people feel safe to visit . high street need to be place in which people take pride and which they find pleasant to be in . the Bill be about bring focus to our high street , ensure that local authority think about the challenge they face and work with those who have an interest in our high street to look at how we can begin to reverse their decline . you will have note , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I say , " Market Street " early , not " High Street " . at the risk of state the obvious , my Bill be not intend merely to work from a list of those street that be literally call , " High Street " . it seek to require local authority to designate a street as a high street for the purpose of the improvement plan . there be at least one designation , and up to three . designation may be varied or withdraw over time . it be not my intention that local authority should be force to designate an entire high street if one end be clearly different in nature — for example , residential — compare with the end of the street that be more traditionally for high street use . I make it clear that part of the intention be that adjoining street can be include in the designate high street , or continuous street with different name that form what be think of locally as the high street . I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on this . I be interested in the point that he make about the broad town - centre area . my experience be that many adjoining street can benefit from this kind of measure and , indeed , neighbouring shopping centre . I urge he to look at that and be as flexible as possible , as there be a risk of displacement activity and concentrate on a small area . I hope that he have think about that . I thank the hon . gentleman for make that important point . I agree entirely that the side street that make up the high street be just as important , and we do not want to see displacement . we want the whole area to be lift and improve so that it attract new use to fill those empty space . local government should make the designation accord to local circumstance , as long as an area be important to the local economy because of a concentration of high street use . it be far specify that it should not include street where the importance be consider to be derive principally from good or service purchase in the course of business . high street consumer retail , include hospitality , be part of what make the totemic importance of our street . define high street to the letter be impossible , and we must recognise their evolve nature and the need to attract alternative use , which may not be primarily retail . the Bill be not prescriptive by design . for example , one option would be to legislate for the definition of high street base on the definition use by the Office for National Statistics in its pioneering and experimental work with the Ordnance Survey to map the location and characteristic of high street in Great Britain . accord to that working definition , a high street consist of " 15 or more retail address within 150 metre . " that dataset aim to bind retail cluster use street name , while aim deliberately to exclude retail function such as retail park , industrial estate and isolate shopping centre . by that definition , there be 6 , 969 high street in Great Britain , of which 6 , 136 be in England . in London alone , the Office for National Statistics and Ordnance Survey map show 1 , 204 high street . more importantly , the west midland have 604 , include the sweep of Market Street , Times Square , the Strand , which include my constituency office , and the pedestrianise Exchange shopping centre in Longton . interestingly , it also manage to capture that part of City Road in Fenton , also in my constituency , that be primarily retail in character , while exclude the part that be not . I be draw attention to the ONS datum work and the demo map on the Ordnance Survey website , because it may prove to be a useful starting point for local authority . it also , of course , help I to make the point that local authority do not have to work from scratch on this . there be no intention to place an onerous burden on local authority ; the intent be to get local authority to become familiar with the datum and more proactive about the good practice for the improvement of local high street , in collaboration with all those who have an interest in make our high street the good place to be . I reject specify the ONS and Ordnance Survey definition in the Bill , partly because it encompass so many street within its definition , and to designate and draw up improvement plan for they all would be onerous . that task could be manage , however , with the stipulation that only up to three high street per authority can be choose . that say , I note that local authority across England have designate nearly 10 , 000 conservation area , so there may be room for great possibility in the designation . more fundamentally , the ONS and os definition do not quite encompass what I would think of as a high street in part of the country , include in my home city . but I stress that it be a great starting point for designate purpose and for the consultee on designation and improvement plan . as the ONS say in the 6 June 2019 article , " high street in Great Britain " : " the closure of branch of retailer across many high street have lead to worry about the decline of retail on the high street , and in turn anxiety about how high street will develop in the future . " in this context , it be important that good datum on high street be available to monitor the change and inform policy response . the article go on to say : " it should be note that this high street project be very much a work in progress . " that be reiterate in the 10 August 2020 update , which say : " we continue to develop our work which mean that the datum and result in this article be Experimental Statistics . " at this experimental stage , it seem the right time to start a wide conversation with local government and local community on which street should be designate formally as high street for the purpose of close study , review and improvement plan . the requirement that at least one street be identify by each local authority ensure that every local authority will engage in this process , and the stipulation that only up to three can be designate at one time be design to ensure that the task be not too onerous and be meaningful . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , but be the point of this Bill to support retail on the high street ? if that be the point , what do he feel be the challenge from the internet and change in the market ? do he believe that part of this regeneration be about bring housing and people close to the high street ? many town will have ream and ream of office and other space above the retail shop on the ground floor . we need to bring people close to the high street in order to make it thrive . I thank my hon . friend for that excellent point . he be absolutely right . while retail be an important aspect of this work , and we hope that this Bill will improve the retail environment on our high street , it can not just be about retail . the world have move on , with online and out - of - town retail , and with the pandemic , which mean that we must encourage alternative use , such as hospitality , leisure and residential . as he say , many of the space above shop just lie empty and dormant . if we can encourage residential and business use of those space , that will really add to the vibrancy and vitality of our high street . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent and very thorough speech . do he share my concern that the whole concept of 15 - minute city have now be catch up in ridiculous conspiracy theory ? what it be really about be the fact that we want people to be able to shop locally , to go out and enjoy leisure facility locally , and not always to have to travel out of town or into the city centre . if we have thrive local community , everyone can get what they need in their local community . the hon . Lady make an interesting point , but I would say that it vary from place to place . across the country we have various type of high street , in town small and large , so it vary depend on the nature of the area and whether it be urban or more rural . it would depend on that right across the country . as I say , there will no doubt be considerable pressure to designate a large number of high street from the beginning of this Bill become an Act , but I fear that it would prove overwhelming and we should safeguard against this . I say that with a certain trepidation , because there be six historic market town in the modern city of Stoke - on - Trent . the idea of designate more than three high street be tempting , because each town have a high street that could , and indeed should , be designate at some point in a rolling process of improvement across the city . I accept that this may prove something to revisit at late stage of the Bill . the eagle - eyed in the House will have notice that , for the purpose of the Bill , high street use mirror those already legislate for in part 10 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . this encompass a good range of what would ordinarily be see as high street use by the general public and do not specify an exact number of retail address within a certain distance , as attempt in the ONS ' s experimental definition . member will be interested to know that the ONS discover what it call " one notable geographic feature in England " in what be otherwise a distribution of retail address on high street across the whole of Great Britain that show no clear pattern across the country . the english feature — this be germane to an English Bill — be that there be hub town with a high proportion of retail address on their high street . hub town be those that be identify in the official rural - urban classification for England as be important hub for the rural area around they because they provide service , employment and business . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs include town like Stone and Cheadle , in north Staffordshire , in this category . there will be a need for improvement plan to be consult on beyond the immediate town and rural area that depend on high street ' success in these hub . there be a great deal of datum , and it be time for local authority to use this to good effect and focus attention on preserve , enhance and revive our high street . they should do this in concert with the community they serve — both business and residential . I wonder if the hon . Gentleman have consider the public transport implication of what he be say , because he be make a very good point about hub town and rural area , and their connectivity to big town or city . in my county , one of the very important benefit we have be the existence of excellent bus service — read bus connect to neighbour small town — and I understand that there might be an issue in Staffordshire with the different level of bus provision . I wonder whether he would like to comment on the importance of public transport and its ability to help regenerate town and city . I agree entirely that public transport be vital to many of our high street and town centre , because connect community , whether urban or rural , be very important . in my area , the decline of bus service , which we have see over a long period , particularly since the pandemic , have have an impact . I have be work to secure more investment into the area in order to address such issue , include through the bus service improvement plan funding , which have be vital in address that . in Stoke - on - Trent we have manage to secure £ 31 million of that funding , which will specifically address such issue . across the country it be important to consider the impact of transport connection , whether bus , rail or other mean , to town centre and high street . there be example of work that be already underway and where such an approach have be take under the high street task force . there will be lesson for we all from those example , include the warning that high street will need to remain agile , which suggest that improvement plan need to avoid be overly prescriptive , as much as be non - existent . the task force have find that the most common recommendation it have need to give for the development of a clear and compelling local vision be the need for " place activation " , alongside a compelling local vision and the requirement for more effective place marketing and branding . in my own town of Longton we be start to see thing be turn around , thank in particular to the proactive approach of Longton Exchange shopping centre , which have attract new use and new organisation such as Urban Wilderness , which be help to develop a programme of creative activity and event . in addition , the levelling - up funding that we have secure be address site such as the Crown Works , redevelop that derelict Potteries site into new residential use . I hope the Minister keep his commitment to see Longton also benefit from level - up partnership funding . this issue be about more than just government funding . as suggest by the high street task force , such funding will not be enough to preserve high street . as those of we with high street in conservation area already know , the requirement to preserve be insufficient to arrest and reverse deterioration . I be delighted that Market Street in Longton be include in the cross - city heritage action zone for the Potteries , which have subsequently mature into a partnership scheme in a conservation area . although we have now start to see property benefit from this grant scheme , it be frustrating that even with this dedicated national support from the Government and their heritage agency , work on improve the street have none the less prove agonisingly slow . we have to contend with covid , of course , but even take that into account be not enough to explain the delay . it be surprising how little the city council know about the owner of building that need repair and reoccupation , but also how blinkered it have prove to be about the severity of the danger than can sometimes be present . one heritage building recently fall into the street and be still cause chaos , because an area of the street immediately before a major bus stop in the town centre have have to be fence off . it be a wonder that no one be kill or injure . I have report the building ' s increasingly precarious condition to the city council several month before its collapse , and be not alone in do so , and this be on a street where a Government scheme will make funding available to landlord to preserve and enhance heritage building and bring they back into use . there be an urgent need to know much more about the physical state of our high street and to liaise with owner and user to take thing forward . Guidance and regulation from the Secretary of State be also important . I ask the House to note the role of Historic England , for example , in issue guidance when designation and review of conservation area be undertake . I hope that the Office for Place , now base in Stoke - on - Trent , will have some role in this process , include for high street . it would be remiss of I not to acknowledge the great deal of work by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee on which we can usefully draw . the Government response of March 2022 to that Committee ' s sixth report , " support our high street after COVID - 19 " , say : " we want to create more vibrant , mixed use town centre area which will attract people to shop , work and for leisure activity , ensure they remain viable now and in the future . to do this we need a modernised and agile planning system — one which embrace digital technology , benefit community and create place in which people can take real pride . " the result of that desire be the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act , to which this Bill be a natural progression and complement . in their response , the Government draw attention to the various support scheme and initiative that they have provide to assist with the vitality of our high street . indeed , there be initiative from a number of Departments . we have see the future high street fund , the high street heritage action zone and so on , but these fund require largely reactive plan to be bring forward , rather than the proactive improvement plan we need from local government that recognise the importance of high street as beacon for their whole area . there be also a need to know more about those high street and to have good working relationship with the owner of the building , in order to preserve and enhance those building . it be incumbent on local authority to get the basic right . nearly all of the top thing people want to see in the nationwide survey be , arguably , within the remit and power of local authority to deliver . take action on the quality of the public realm , with more greenery and less litter , along with appropriate design code and enforcement against unsightly shopfront , sign and street clutter , will help to fill empty shop . if it do not do so — say , where the landlord be particularly obstructive or unco - operative — there be now power for rental auction be to be require . the Bill be about get local authority to use the power that be now in place to get on top of the challenge and take action on the issue that be important to high street user or that bring in new use , whether that involve the big name or the quirky and family - own independent local business that people want to see . they should consider totally different new use , such as creative and digital start - up . to get this right , we need more than " an exercise in dolle the place up with fresh paint that last about twelve month " , which be how I have have one scheme — not in my constituency — describe to I recently . in some instance , the local authority may need to get out of the way — for example , it could provide more flexibility by allow more temporary event notice to be issue . however , without more detailed analysis than be usually in place , it will be hard to deliver the long - term viability that we all want to see . a short - term , stick - plaster approach frustrate we all , and it do not adequately achieve the Government ' s own objective . with the Bill , we will see proactive review and improvement plan for high street that get close to the root cause of decline and bring forward the physical improvement and event programme that be likely need to activate place where foot will fall . I particularly want to thank the Minister for all his support and the Department for bring forward the Bill . I stress to the Government the importance of implement it as soon as possible . this be a Bill to reverse the decline of our high street , and I commend it to the House . it be a pleasure not only to follow the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) , but to support he in his endeavour with his private Member ' s Bill . I appreciate his eloquent and consider contribution this morning . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be learn very quickly that , on private member ' Bills Fridays , there be a collegiality in the House and a reciprocity in contribution , so I be very pleased to speak , recognise that I be do so on a Bill that extend to England only . I do not want to intervene on the hon . member to make this point , for fear of ruin his flow , but there be a wide point to make that extend beyond the scope of these day and beyond the constraint of money resolution and so on : for as long as online retailer be pay significantly less in rate , tax and other burden from Government than our high street retailer , we will not allow those high street retailer to flourish . when Marks & Spencer be pay in one year what Amazon pay in 20 year , we can see the challenge that be before those who wish to take the good aim of the hon . member ' s Bill and revitalise our high street . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to give local authority the ability to designate not just one high street but up to three high street — high street area that go beyond one street , to put it another way — for this purpose . I represent the city of Belfast and when I think of our high street , I think of Donegall Place , Royal Avenue and Ann Street , all of which be within our city centre and constitute a high street . all have have challenge in the last decade or so . the historical Primark building , an old bank , have a fire that effectively shut down the entire centre and its connect road for around three year . it be a heritage building that be be restore , and the fire have a cataclysmic effect on the economy , on trade and on people ' s ability to meet and mingle in our city centre , so I entirely recognise the point that the hon . Gentleman make . in recognise what Belfast ' s high street have to offer , I should note that none of they be in my constituency . we need to recognise the neighbourhood in our city . the hon . Gentleman reflect on that within Stoke - on - Trent , where he can see six potential neighbourhood that could constitute high street area that should receive attention . some of the briefing in support of the Bill have quote the Institute of Place Management and its co - chair , Professor Cathy Parker , who recognise that , in over 40 % of the town visit in pursuit of the high street task force , there be no real partnership or governance to deliver the transformative change that our high street need . I declare my interest as a board member of EastSide Partnership , which do not touch on our town centre but be very much of east Belfast . as a partnership , it be solely focused on regeneration in all its form . as a constituency MP , I be very proud of the partnership ' s work and of the small and singular contribution that I and many other have make over the year . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent point . whether or not it be through this Bill , meaningful regeneration can happen only if people have pride in the area they either live in or come from , and that generally come from a knowledge or understanding of the area ' s history and heritage . from his experience of be a board member , do he see that sense of history and heritage be use to drive regeneration in Belfast ? I do . first we need pride , commitment , passion and knowledge of what go before and what we want to achieve in the future . I want to share the beauty of the partnership in bring all those strand together . the partnership be bear from the need to tackle social deprivation and have become regenerative , but not in the traditional sense of simple physical regeneration . as a partnership , we support business improvement district and trader ' association . around the corner from my constituency office , work be happen on Belmont Road , Ballyhackamore and Newtownards Road . as arterial route in my constituency , they all get support for their endeavour to make the good of their immediate location . within the broad neighbourhood , a recreational space span 16 km throughout the constituency , across three river , tie people together in an environmentally sustainable way that bring they out to mix and mingle . the Hub be in an area that be full of dilapidation , dereliction and social deprivation , and that be the target of much difficulty during the trouble . it have be totally transform as an amazing civic space that celebrate C . s . Lewis , a son of Belfast who be bring up in my constituency and be world - renowned for his ability to write and speak theologically , as well as for be a professor and an author . it be a beautiful space and something that have completely transform the area , which include the Holywood Arches , which we be hope to regenerate for business purpose . at the bottom of Newtownards Road , there be a brand - new share space — the Bridges doctor surgery — which be attend across the peace divide and which bring community together for not only health , but physical regeneration through capital building and social investment fund . that deliver , on a neighbourhood basis , on exactly the aim of the Bill through share experience , commitment and partnership . at the other end of the constituency , in Ballybeen , round the corner from where I live , there be the second large social housing estate in all of Northern Ireland — one that be blight by the trouble . Ballybeen Square itself be full of dereliction until the predecessor of my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , Mrs Iris Robinson , totally regenerate the space in conjunction with the EastSide Partnership . it be do in a way that be connect with the local community . it provide a business hub , bring in council service and provide other community service , and it have transform that area . it be that passion and pride we have in our area and our ability to draw on our past , recognise not only the difficulty there have be but the vision and potential to deliver for our local people , that provide the element for success . the intervention be absolutely right , and the point to highlight be that there be too few partnership . some 40 % of town need regeneration , and the high street need to be reinvigorate . we do not need another committee set up for the sake of it . we do not do this because the high street task force ask we to ; we do it because we believe in our area and want to see it improve . I share all that because I want to support the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South on his Bill , which will help to crystallise in a productive way the opportunity to reinvigorate high street . I thank the hon . member for give way . I be interested to hear what he say about the importance of preserve the history and legacy of our community . on one of the long high street in my constituency — Church Road — which go into the neighbour constituency of Bristol West , hide behind a Wetherspoons that have just close we have an almost pristine art deco cinema . it open in 1912 and be where the first silent film be show . it have now become an asset of community value . the community be try to buy it to turn it into a community hub . there be other people who be interested in turn it into housing . although we have a great need for housing , have that as a centrepiece would encourage people to flock to Church Road to see that historical asset . I support what he be say , because shop and housing be important , but those asset be important too . I thank the hon . Lady for that contribution because it allow I to move from CS Lewis Square , up the Holywood Road towards St Mark ' s Church in Dundela , Bunker Hill . that be C . s . Lewis ' s church , and it have his communion cup , which be donate by the family . Smack bang in the middle be the old Strand Cinema , which be now the Strand Arts Centre . for eight year — actually , from before I be a Member of Parliament , so for 10 year — I have be bang my head against a brick wall in support of the Strand Cinema , which be a beautiful pre - war , art deco cinema . there use to be one screen , probably the size of this Chamber , and it have now be divide into four screen — the old balcony be a separate screen . we just secure £ 4 . 09 million from the levelling - up fund for the full restoration of Strand Arts Centre . I say genuinely to the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) that if there be a connection we can make between the two — if we can share the plan and show exactly what they be do and hope to deliver in my constituency — I would be more than happy to share that with she . all that come through partnership , and it be the partnership element that I want to impress on the debate . I chair a subsidiary of our partnership , which be EastSide Tourism . it be all about encourage people to visit east Belfast . when I be leader of our party group in the council , there be an opportunity to allocate £ 105 million for leisure transformation across the city . through one political deal or another , I get £ 48 million of that for what be now my constituency . part of that be use to restore the heritage bath in east Belfast , the old public bath where people use to go after a hard day or a week ' s work in the shipyard . they have now be completely restore and integrate into an all - singing , all - dancing , state - of - the art leisure centre . you may remember the old slipper bath , Mr Deputy Speaker : there be only one tap , you get six inch of hot water , and you can put in as much cold as you like . if you want a long bath , it be go to be freeze . that draw together of a new , regenerative leisure facility and our old industrial past and heritage , through our tourism initiative and as part of the wide regenerative partnership within our neighbourhood , show what can be achieve when we have the necessary passion , will and determination , recognise where we have be and where , as a community , we want to go . the Bill focus , rightly , on high street , but within our wide city and space there be neighbourhood and community with a passionate desire to make their locality well than they be today , and that be what should lie at the heart of our aspiration for our city . I strongly welcome and support this Bill present by my near neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) to improve our high street . there be four micro market town in my constituency and one large village , and we be well aware that , particularly in the case of big unitary authority such as Cheshire East Council , development plan need to be make in close partnership with local people and local business , because they know their community well . council such as Cheshire East need to listen to local people , and need to listen to they more . in 2010 , a campaign to prevent the car parking charge propose by Cheshire East Council , under a different leadership , be successful because the then leadership recognise the detrimental effect that they would have on town such as mine . unfortunately , just yesterday , the current leadership implement the charge . " Controversial " be not really the word to describe what have happen . there be opposition from more than 8 , 000 resident in the consultation . of 8 , 384 representation , 8 , 127 be objection , 127 be neutral , and just 130 support the proposal . could anyone say that Cheshire East Council be really listen to local people ? that be why the Bill matter . I would describe Cheshire East Council in this respect as tin - eared . its plan be short - sighted , and potentially detrimental to high street throughout my constituency . Cheshire East Council may be under funding pressure , but this be not the way to resolve they . Mike Muldoon , a hard - work and commit Sandbach councillor , contact I this week — not for the first time — to say that such proposal would have a potentially detrimental impact on small restaurant , publican , welfare outlet such as chemist , optician and hairdresser , and shop and local business that enjoy the footfall of local people who can currently pop in and out quickly from their town . at a demonstration in Sandbach , Councillor Muldoon speak powerfully on my behalf about how wrong the charge would be . they would penalise local people — resident who come to shop and use facility in their own town . they would harm small business , the lifeblood of our local economy , and stifle rather than strengthen the community spirit as people stay away from local group and event . they be also wrong because they would exacerbate parking on local side street , to the considerable inconvenience of householder live nearby . my hon . friend ' s Bill would help such issue to be handle in a consider and plan way , rather than through what look like a knee - jerk reaction to raise fund off the back of local people , high street customer and business . I fully support the proposal in the Bill to ensure that town have a thought - through regeneration plan which be base on local people ' s priority and put to local people for consultation that be actually listen to and meaningful . too many consultation be hold simply to tick a box to say that a consultation have happen . that have to stop . I look to the Bill to ensure that it do not happen . I hope the Bill will also ensure that local authority listen to local community on other matter of concern in my constituency . one such case involve Holmes Chapel . over many year , the parish council have produce thoughtful proposal on how to deal with traffic pressure in the centre , which be among local resident ' big concern . over those many year , I have support the parish council and resident , and I pay tribute to all those involve in develop those thoughtful plan . it be vital that principal authority listen to such proposal ; the Bill would promote that ethos and , I hope , result in a change of approach to the dialogue that need to take place in such case . Holmes Chapel Parish Council have propose to introduce traffic - calm measure such as roadway marking and gateway feature , and low speed on London Road , which pass through the village centre , to make it a well place for shopper and pedestrian , many of whom be elderly . I hope that the principal council officer and other will listen and now actually implement the proposal the parish council have be make for many year . we need to make sure that our town and high street be accessible . my town of Alsager , Congleton , Middlewich and Sandbach , and the large village of Holmes Chapel , be all thrive and have many independent local business . we want to keep they that way , and access to our community centre be essential . to ensure well access in Sandbach , a wonderful market town , a request have be make for a pedestrian crossing on the Hill . a main thoroughfare into the town , the Hill be a busy road contain a mixture of residential property and shop . it be think that a crossing be plan , but I be tell by constituent — I pay particular tribute to Sarah Bradley for her campaign , although she be support by many resident in the area — that that be no long the case and section 106 fund may be direct elsewhere . I urge the council to think again . bank closure be another issue , and I strongly support the campaign of our hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) to save our bank . our local community be be debanke , which be make it very hard for local people , especially those who be elderly and vulnerable , for charity and cash business to access the banking facility they need . for example , Alsager in my constituency have two bank and two building society but now have none . let we ensure that we have a local voice support local banking . we must ensure that town such as Congleton remain vibrant , which be why my hon . friend ' s Bill be so important . I be sorry to hear that Boots be close the Bridge Street branch in the centre of town , and be focus just on the branch in the retail park outside the centre of town , which have free parking . I wonder whether the plan to close be in the light of the car parking charge that be be introduce . I will end there and leave it to other colleague , I hope , to support my hon . friend ' s Bill , which I very much support . if there be something that interest I — though not more than anything else — it be this issue . I be a firm believer that history , heritage and pride in an area be a central driver to regeneration . we can come up with all the policy in the world , but if those fundamental be not there , there be failure . the emotional connection between the human being and where they live be central to our political life . I be the very proud MP for Bury North , but I be bring up in another town in West Yorkshire that I will not name , which be part of my soul and who I be . People might ask , " how can that be ? " but I be proud to say that . I will give hon . member a clue : one of the reason why I have be a season ticket holder at Huddersfield Town football club for many year be that it be a representation of an association with the pride , history and heritage of an area that mean something to I . it be the first team to win the first division championship three time in a row in the 1920 . as a young boy , when I shop in the town where I be bring up , it be a place of wonderment . there be independent shop and it be thrive , full of cinema and all sort of other thing . my heart bleed now when I go there . I be not blame anyone or try to make a political point , but the centre be die , and it never use to be like that . I wonder whether somehow we have lose the care and the feeling for a place . in my own town of Bury we have secure levelling - up funding for the regeneration of the town centre . I have try to persuade my local council that a building can be build in whatever shape , which might or might not be something , but people need to have an understanding of the history and how we have get here . I be ask my local authority to create sign , or something , that tell the story of Bury . a lot of people in Bury do not know their own story . if you do not know your own story , where be you go to go ? this be a really interesting debate , in which some interesting point have be put forward . my heart sink when the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) make the point about the art deco cinema . that be as important to regeneration as Marks and Spencer and Tesco . that be the thing that spark people into life and give that joint , collective , communal experience , where people go out , spend their money and invest in thing . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) make a valid point about car parking charge — we could all discuss that separate issue for the rest of the debate . but the important thing be not that . I agree with every word that my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) say . for the high street to be successful , the thing around it have to be successful as well . one of the thing that I be proud of as a Member of Parliament be secure £ 1 million from the Minister ' s Department to buy Gigg Lane in my constituency . when the issue be first raise about get £ 1 million of taxpayer ' money to buy a football club , there be a bit of outrage . that football ground be the 12th old in the world , and it be less than a mile from the high street in the centre of Bury , but what do it do ? it be the only place in Bury where 3 , 000 to 4 , 000 people come together every single fortnight . it be the ultimate footfall provider , and the cost and benefit for that million pound involve not only how it make people feel — Bury Football Club be back , as I be sure you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , and charge up through the league — but the preservation of a heritage asset . it bring people into the town centre to share experience and to be interested in their town . it be an example of what we should do . I be silently shout when the hon . member for Bristol East be talk . I know that my hon . friend the Minister will say , " community ownership fund , community ownership fund , " because that be the exact mean for Gigg Lane , but I can give another example . the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make a point about the levelling - up fund , but the late round of the community ownership fund , which be how Gigg Lane be preserve , be also use to save the Co - op Hall theatre on the main street in Ramsbottom , a town in my constituency . this theatre be unique — one of only three in the country . it be an original 1870s co - op theatre where people go not just to listen to concert , but to attend an anatomy class , for example . whatever they want to do , they could go in there and do it . the theatre have be lay untouched for 60 year on the top floor of a building in Ramsbottom . nobody know about it . while I can not recommend highly enough the coffee shop , bar and independent retailer in Ramsbottom , if someone need a reason to go there , it be an intact 1870 co - op theatre , part of the history and heritage of the industrialisation of the town . that be what regeneration be about . we need to link these thing into what my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South have be talk about . my constituency have the big town of Bury and the small town of Ramsbottom . we must face up to reality : without something dramatic in fiscal policy , the challenge for retail business in our high street and town compare with those for online business in term of energy cost , rental cost — all those thing — will prove too much for many business . we must think strongly about what our high street will look like . I make this point to my hon . friend , but we must find way to make use of the empty building in town centre . in 2021 , we introduce legislation — I think it be the class e regulation — to make it easy to turn shop and suchlike into residential property , and we must look at that . we can not just have empty shop and empty space , because they present an opportunity for housing and regeneration to bring place back to life . we have a free market economy — socialism hasn ' t get we yet , Mr Deputy Speaker — and long may that be the case . the question be , " can the state regenerate anything ? " if it be our job to release the potential of individual and town and place , what do we do ? as a conservative , I believe in release burden , whether that be taxation , regulation or whatever . that be what we do to allow people to make their own decision , invest their own money , and regenerate high street through their own endeavour and their passion for the area in which they live or to which they come . however , a hugely important part of this debate be this idea of heritage culture — tap into something and think honestly about what the state can invest in that will get people off their settee , away from watch " Coronation Street " , away from all the other stuff , and motivate they to come and do something . when we pontificate in this place , we forget that when people vote , they act upon emotion . People be not go to say that regeneration have happen . I put in a bid to the levelling - up fund in Bury for a flexi - hall . it be go to be great . but a flexi - hall be a flexi - hall — it be a building that hopefully we can do something with , and hopefully it inspire . but what really inspire be what my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East be talk about regard the partnership in Belfast and the theatre he mention . my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) be about to speak , and I be sure he can give an example of that , as can the Minister . that be what matter , and that be how the Government can intervene . it be terribly unfashionable , but as chair of the northern culture all - party group , let we invest in thing that inspire people , give they belief in their town and area , and give they share collective experience . if we as the Government and work cross - party can do that , those town centre will be regenerate . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) , and I agree with so much of what he have say and what other member have say . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) on present this Bill to the House . his speech lay out in detail the issue and challenge that we face , and he be prove to be a vociferous champion for his high street . british high street should be vibrant hub of commerce and community life , yet many be now face unprecedented challenge in the wake of evolve consumer habit and economic shift , particularly after the pandemic . too many retail unit lie board up , and the Bill recognise that reality and take a proactive approach to try to breathe new life into some of those critical space , alongside other Government action . the Bill be not merely about preserve brick and mortar structure ; it be about preserve the beat heart of our community . too many business have close their door , and as a result job have go too , affect family and individual . let I say a few word about the town centre and high street of Crewe and Nantwich . Nantwich in my constituency would commonly be regard as the more secure of the two , which be probably true . even in Nantwich , however , we have see more vacant unit than we would like , and we can not take the success of any of our high street for grant . as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) mention , recent change confirm yesterday will increase parking charge in Nantwich and Crewe , which be go in the wrong direction . the council will probably lose more money if our high street be not successful , and we need to encourage great use of they , not make that even hard or more expensive for people . even in Nantwich we have challenge , but there be no doubt that my constituent be particularly concerned about our town centre and high street in Crewe . the history be a long and sometimes tortuous story . first there be a decision to construct a retail park within walking distance . that have see business move and customer make use of the free parking near the big chain store that we find there . secondly , there be an ambition to build a new leisure and retail unit in the heart of town . again , I apologise if this be slightly controversial , but do my hon . friend think that out - of - town retail park be an absolute disaster ? because I do in term of town centre regeneration . they serve no purpose , and the same product can be deliver in a much more harmonious and well way in town where such shop have traditionally be . we must recognise the job and investment that retail park sometimes create , but there be no doubt that they lack on the add value we get when those retail unit be place in more diverse community . certainly , as I have see in this case , there might be an argument for an out - of - town retail park , but to place a retail park immediately next to a high street and town centre have create enormous challenge for that town centre over the year . in part to try to rebalance that , the plan be to build a new retail leisure centre in the heart of town , right on our high street , but as other have mention , the definition of a high street can involve multiple street that make up the high street , and we could also see a street far out nearer the train station as a local high street . unfortunately , that plan lead to a long period of the town centre be a big board up space , then a demolish space . that drag down the purpose and vibe of the town , which be not surprising . unfortunately , market change as that delay have drag on have lead ultimately to the decision not to proceed with that plan in the short term , and potentially never to proceed with it . at the same time , that allow we to build a new car park and bus station , which will open this year and will help and benefit the whole town centre . but that leave we with the press priority to make use of that now vacant and derelict space , as otherwise it will carry on drag down the rest of the town centre . I hope we see rapid progress from the Labour - lead council this year to get that space back into use . the Minister will understand that when it come to challenge face Crewe ' s retail sector and town centre it would be remiss of I not to mention the additional challenge that we face follow the decision on HS2 . that have always divide opinion in the House on its overall merit , but everyone would recognise that Crewe in particular would benefit from investment and regeneration . there be short - term challenge because of the accounting change that need to be make . I have speak repeatedly to the Government about that , and I be optimistic that we can find a solution . go past that , we need additional investment so that Crewe can make up the loss , which we do not expect , on the back of the decision on HS2 . I do not want to be too negative , because there absolutely be positive for our high street in Crewe . we have a £ 22 . 9 million town deal , and we have £ 14 . 1 million from the future high street fund . some of the thing we will do with that money include a programme to get vacant unit in Crewe back into use — exactly the kind of challenge we have be discuss — and landscape work to make the journey in , around and to the town centre and its high street easier . it will help to bring back into use building that be not smack on the high street — they might be slightly far out , such as the Flag Lane Baths community centre , which be come on board , and a new boxing club on Mirion Street . all those thing encourage people to come into town , and to the high street . that create footfall , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North say . we have a football club in Crewe which , as he say of his football club , bring a lot of people into the town . we have start to construct a history centre , which will provide additional public space . all those thing be positive , but we must do more . the Bill seek to do something different to tackle the crisis . I have work closely as part of the town board with Cheshire East local authority , and I have see the benefit of an engaged local authority — we do not see that everywhere — so , even if I do not agree with everything that it have do or think that it be perfect , I have see its effort and willingness to engage . every local authority should be engage in that process . the designation aspect of the Bill acknowledge the unique character of each town and each high street , emphasise that a one - size - fit - all approach be not the way forward . by conduct comprehensive and periodic review , we can ensure that the distinctive need and opportunity of each community be meet . as for the specific proposal in the Bill and thing that we need to be careful about , as we have hear , it be say that each area need between one and three high street . as I have say , there be a number of high street in my constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton , who share my local authority , have several in her constituency . across Cheshire East there be probably dozen of high street . it be right not to say that we have to get go on every single one , but I would not want a local authority to choose , for example , the three rosy high street , with the good possible outcome already on the table . I hope that the guidance ensure that the selection of high street give some consideration to those that will be of most benefit in tackle the issue that we have discuss . I want briefly to talk about vacancy and absent landlord . I welcome the work that have be do — I know that the Minister be passionate about it — on high street auction . it be shocking , when we try to engage with landlord to tackle issue in Crewe , only to discover that they could not care less . we can not get hold of they — the council can not do so — or they might respond to one letter , but not to another . it be a free market , and people buy property . the state should be careful about designate exactly what it should do , but there must be limit for property in location of high community interest . we need to tackle that . I want to touch on the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Bury North about not think that this be all about freeze our high street , or set they in stone , or push back the tide . we have to accept that in the long run the retail footprint will shrink because of change in online shopping . a small footprint be more sustainable in the long run , and we can think about replacement such as in - house living . the legislation be an opportunity not only for invite investment but for a firm political commitment to strengthen the fabric of our community . it foster political accountability and signal a commitment to the long - term wellbeing of our town and high street . I welcome its progress through the House , and I look forward to its become law , with benefit for multiple high street across our country and our constituency as a result . I be inspire to say a few word in this debate , because I want to talk about my home town of Gainsborough , which be directly affect by this issue . Gainsborough be a traditional market and industrial town in north Lincolnshire . it be a small town that suffer from industrial decline in the 1970 . we have a fantastic scheme to redevelop the old factory right in the middle of the town , Marshall ' s , which have be decay for year . we turn it into a fantastic shopping centre , Marshall ' s Yard — the whole thing be go really well . we also have morrison outside , and Tesco , which have be put up next to Marshall ' s Yard . that be all fantastic , but the problem be that it be suck life away from the high street and the marketplace . a real issue for our town be that as we develop decay industrial area , or have more out - of - centre shopping centre , the inside of the town be decay . it be a huge issue for all our town . I have be fortunate enough to work with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , and to get £ 10 million in levelling - up funding for the Gainsborough South West ward , which be directly help we . in an old town such as Gainsborough , one of the key be to use heritage . we have many decaying shop , and we put a fantastic amount of work into create beautiful new shopfront , which lift the whole area . another point I want to make be that in the marketplace — which , again , have slightly suffer from the fact that the trade be be suck into Marshall ' s yard — car be not allow to park . in France , Italy or Germany , car be allow to park in the marketplace , which bring in life . I know we be not suppose to have as many car in the middle of town as we use to , but Gainsborough be not London ; it be a small town . bring in more life be quite important . to sum all of this up , the Government have to work very carefully with the district council at a very local level . West Lindsey District Council have a good record of work with central Government to try to ensure that we get development into the town , but I wonder whether have a Mayor for Lincolnshire be go to make a great deal of difference . as the Minister well know , I be quite dubious about that idea : we be go to have a Mayor of Lincolnshire — a large rural area — as well as a county council , district council , mps and Ministers all compete for attention . I be also worried about the consultation , which all veer towards the idea that we have to have a Mayor . when the Minister reply to this debate — this be one of the reason I be speak today — I want he to convince I that when he impose a Mayor on Lincolnshire , who will need to have a salary and will be base in Lincoln , he be not go to suck power and resource from the really local authority , the district council , which be do all the hard graft to improve our high street . I congratulate the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) on his success in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , and I be pleased to be respond on Second reading of his Bill today . I start by thank all member who have take part in the debate — the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , for Bury North ( James Daly ) and for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) , and the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who have all talk about their local area . a couple of theme have emerge : partnership , people work together and the importance of heritage . the purpose of the Bill be to place new requirement on local authority in relation to high street , as part of which — as we have hear — it allow council to designate street in their area . the legislation have similarity to part 10 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , which allow local authority to designate high street and town centre for other purpose . this Bill , however , allow designation for the purpose of establish improvement plan . we can all agree that support the future of our high street need back from all level of government , and local authority certainly have an important part to play . that be especially true give that it feel that in recent year people have be toll the funeral bell for our high street . in that time we have have the Government ' s plan for the high street , the Build back well high street strategy , and now the long - term plan for town , but somebody walk through many of our town centre today would not know that . unfortunately , it be all too common to see board - up shopfront and close shutter as fashion retailer , bank branch and countless small business on our high street have be force to shut up shop for good . among those loss there have be success story of individual shop and thrive high street despite the odd , but it be hard not to look at the figure and think of decline . research carry out by the British Retail Consortium in 2023 find that 6 , 000 shop have close for good in the previous five year . the sad truth be that the pain of loss be not feel equally . the BRC ' s figure for April reveal that nearly a fifth of shop in the north - east be stand empty , compare with one in 10 in the south . then there be the disparity between city centre and rural area . once again , the Government ' s claim to level up ring hollow . with these closure come worker lose their livelihood and community unable to access essential . bustling high street be more than the sum of their part ; they be place where community come together . that be why we can not have any more business as usual ; we need to be imaginative about how we make our high street work for community today . that require careful planning . labour have be clear that we want to see local authority in the drive seat , give local leader the power and flexibility need to turbocharge growth in their area . in difficult circumstance , the difference that labour council have make in transform local high street be testament to that potential . the Bradford city centre growth scheme have bring 70 vacant high street unit back into commercial use . in Wolverhampton , the council have plan to transform a derelict site into a food and entertainment venue in the heart of the city . for local community to succeed , they need the right tool . it be no secret that 13 year of Tory economic mismanagement have leave local authority struggle . this government ' s effort to support high street have involve a begging bowl approach that have pit community against each other , with old pot of money discontinue , package up and resold as new . labour would put a stop to that micromanagement and empower community to grow their local economy as they know well . I recognise that there be challenge when there be a more public process for the allocation of fund , but I hope the hon . Member would accept that if her party be lucky enough to be in government , there would be a set pot of money . even if behind the scene her Government be make some tough decision about who do and do not get it , they will not be give everybody every bit of money that they want — unless , of course , Labour have further plan beyond the current £ 28 billion to ensure that every high street that want money get it . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , but this matter be about plan and give local authority power to decide what be good for their own area . there be a challenge . we will scrap business rate and bring in a fair system , which would reduce the burden on high street premise . we will tackle antisocial behaviour by introduce new town centre police patrol and put an end to the £ 200 rule that stop shoplift be investigate . I be pleased that the Bill recognise the importance of local authority plan , and we will not be oppose it today , but a number of question remain to be answer , and I hope that the Minister or the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South can answer they . for example , clause 3 make the improvement plan a material planning consideration , but it be not clear by what mechanism those improvement plan would have to be take into account when produce the local plan , as council be require to do . can the Minister or the hon . Member tell we how the provision in the Bill align with neighbourhood plan ? we have already hear an intervention about that . I be genuinely interested , because the hon . Lady have criticise the Government , and a number of member have point to example where money , whether in Belfast or wherever , have be go specifically to project link to regeneration . she appear to be say , " we do not believe in any of that . our policy be simply to hope that the local authority will make the right decision . " I can tell she that the labour local authority in Huddersfield have be make the wrong decision for the past 30 year . that be why the council and the town be in the state they be in . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . as I say , I be interested to hear his early intervention on neighbourhood plan ; that be one of the key thing . we recognise the need to invest in order to make our high street viable and lively , as many hon . member have say , and I have already set out some of the step that Labour would take to do that . if we be to create welcome , inclusive town centre that function as vital community space , those community must have a say in their design . but to achieve that we need the return of a collaborative approach that empower local authority to thrive and play an active part . labour have that vision , and I hope that the Government will adopt it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) on his success in the ballot and his sponsorship of this important and worthwhile private Member ' s Bill . his unwavering commitment and effort to champion our high street , include those he mention in his remark , have lead to this matter be raise in the House . I thank other hon . member for back the Bill . I confirm that the Bill have the Government ' s full support . there be arguably few more visible barometer of a healthy local economy , local pride and quality of life than our high street . I know that all too well from my experience as the Member of Parliament for Redcar and Cleveland . like my hon . friend , I be privileged and proud to represent the area where I grow up , but one of the reason why I come into politic be that my area , my community , my town and my high street feel like place that have be forget and leave behind by the incumbent political regime . it can be hard for people who move around a lot , or perhaps those who live in a busy city , to understand what it feel like when a place we care about and where we have deep root seem to have lose its way , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) say . I remember , when I be grow up , walk into Boro town centre with my mam and dad and hear about Uptons . it be probably how my niece and nephews feel now when I talk about Woolworths — although , as be say , it look like Woolies may be come back . our high street be not just place where people shop and access good and service ; they be the heart of our community life . they be place where people come together . their success be therefore vital to realise our ambition to level up economic growth and opportunity across the country , both economically and socially . that be why the challenge that our town centre have be face in recent year need to be take seriously . some town centre have weather dramatic shift in consumer behaviour and the legacy of the pandemic , but many have struggle . we have see the collapse of major high street retailer such as Debenhams , and high street that be once the soul of our community be now blight by low footfall , high vacancy rate and antisocial behaviour . the Government be commit to work with local community to help turn that around . the Bill will play an important role in that mission , alongside other Government intervention , as part of a broad strategy to help high street recalibrate themselves back towards their community . that include put billion into high street regeneration and renewal , include : a new high street and town taskforce as part of our long - term plan for town ; measure to bring vacant property back into use and make town centre safe through a crackdown on antisocial behaviour ; a new £ 2 . 5 million high street accelerator programme bring together business and community organisation to develop a long - term vision for revitalise high street ; and significant planning flexibility to ensure that they continue to thrive as centre where commerce and community meet . we know that every high street be different and that local area be well place to understand their own problem and find the right solution through strong local partnership on the ground . those partnership be often key to transform the fortune of our town centre . we want to support council as well as local business and local community and ensure that they have everything they need to succeed , so that wherever someone be in the country , they have a high street that meet the need of their community and one that they can be proud of . in that vein , may I commend my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , who explain to I the need for investment in Bolsover town centre ? I be delighted that we be able to award Bolsover £ 15 million of levelling - up funding in the autumn statement in November . I hope that Bolsover can use that funding and this Bill to improve its high street . one of the most important way we can make that a reality for more community be for council to use their power in order to drive improvement . that be the aim of this Bill . we know that , for example , section 215 power , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , which require land to be clean up when it be detracting from the surrounding , be not always deploy as well as they could be . that will only become more significant when the new high street rental auction power be introduce later this year , which will far bolster the regeneration tool available to local authority . the Bill will require local authority to designate at least one high street , and up to three , in their area and create plan to improve they , which should be publish every five year . in choose their high street , local authority will need to identify street of specific economic , social and cultural importance in their area , assess their condition , and come up with plan to preserve and enhance they . local resident , business , community organisation and other will rightly have a real say in those action plan , and the local council will be accountable for deliver they . pick up on the remark I make in my speech , what can we do to ensure that council be designate and put the work into high street that need it , rather than pick one that be , thankfully , flourish and perhaps less in need of attention ? potentially , council could seek to avoid do the hard work that we want to be put into these designation . we will work with local authority and , no doubt , member of this House to establish the right guidance for local authority in choose their high street . they will also be subject to consultation , which I be about to talk about . the Bill will require council to consult on which high street be choose , and we have hear some early pitch today . it be exciting to imagine the difference that this could make : few empty shop , more people visit high street and stay long , and a boost to local pride and people ' s quality of life . as I say early , different area have different challenge , so the improvement we can expect to see will vary . the focus in one area might be on tackle antisocial behaviour , whereas in another it could be on create more green space to rest and socialise . the Bill will create a duty on local authority to take into account high street improvement plan when exercise their planning function , which go directly to the question from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) . that will support the already strong protection for mixed - use high street and complement the tool available to local authority , such as the change make to use class order in 2020 to create the new commercial , business and service use class mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South . this bring together high street use such as shop , restaurant and office , and enable change between these use without planning application . the high street improvement plan will also reinforce measure in the national planning policy framework that require local plan and decision making to support town centre to adapt and grow over the long term . in addition , they will support the use of section 215 power , require unsightly land or property to be clean up . we recognise that local area will know well what their high street improvement plan should cover . will my hon . friend comment on what he define as a high street ? Bolton Street , in my constituency , back on to the East Lancs railway , which be in the process of make an application for £ 3 million to the community ownership fund . it be not simply about the shop on a high street ; heritage project and other in the immediate vicinity can benefit from Government money in drive regeneration as well . we have already hear example of how high street could be define from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , but I look forward to such an application to the community ownership fund . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bury North for his regular plug for the fund . once the Bill have receive Royal Assent , we will issue guidance on develop improvement plan . we would , of course , welcome any input on what the guidance should contain from hon . member or other interested party . we recognise that it take time to implement plan and see their impact . at the same time , it be important that the plan be meaningful and that they will not be neglect and leave to gather dust . we believe that five year for review and , if necessary , update the improvement plan strike the right balance , allow enough time for they to take effect while ensure that they remain relevant and central to the renewal and reinvigoration of our high street . this be very much about local resident , business and community see visible , meaningful improvement , but we recognise that that must not come at the cost of overburden council that be already under pressure . we will therefore ensure that local authority have the extra funding they need to deliver the measure in the Bill effectively . as I say early , the Bill build on the extensive range of support we be already provide to truly level up our high street , with local people in the drive seat . on his point about put local people in the drive seat , will the Minister assure I that any power or resource give to the Mayor of Lincolnshire will not suck resource away from West Lindsey District Council , which be the primary promoter of improvement on our high street ? I be go to come to that , but my right hon . friend have bring it to my attention soon . he mention the landmark devolution deal for Greater Lincolnshire and that it come with a Mayor , but he fail to mention the three quarter of a billion pound that come with that deal . I can assure he that we be give more power and funding to community like his in Greater Lincolnshire , and I urge he to support the introduction of a Mayor , which will be transformational for Greater Lincolnshire . we be give local authority more support to truly level up their high street . that support mean more money , and we be invest billion of pound in high street that be sorely in need of a help hand to get back on their foot . that include our £ 1 . 1 billion long - term plan for town — I be grateful to the shadow Minister for plug that in her remark — launch in October , which will power ambitious regeneration project across the UK over the next decade . through the plan , each town will develop a long - term plan for regeneration base on the priority of local people , and receive a 10 - year endowment - style fund worth £ 20 million to deliver transformational project , from boost the look and feel of town centre to protect local heritage , as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , to crack down on anti - social behaviour . the plan will also establish a new high street and town taskforce to provide hand - on support and expert advice on place making , planning and design . our new town unit , which be announce last week , head by Adam Hawksbee , the Prime Minister ' s town tsar , will ensure that local leader have the control they need over decision making . this funding come on top of the £ 2 . 35 billion we be invest through our town deal , £ 830 million in future high street funding and the £ 4 . 8 billion be invest into community through the levelling - up fund , unlock the economic potential of community across the country , like mine in Redcar . in Redcar , £ 25 million of funding be be invest through the town deal in regenerate the high street , demolish the old Woolworths and M & S building , and create a new leisure facility on the high street , as well as rejuvenate our much - love seafront . down the road in Eston , some of the £ 20 million of levelling - up funding we receive be be invest in regenerate Eston Square and the precinct building . not long after I be elect , I be give a book about the history of Eston by the former councillor , Ann Higgins . in the book , there be a picture of Mo Mowlam , one of my predecessor as MP for Redcar , meet resident and business at the old James Finnigan Hall to discuss the deterioration of Eston town centre . More than two decade and four member of Parliament later , we be finally deliver on that . the funding demonstrate to the people of those town , and other like they across the UK , that we be keep the faith with they and deliver on the thing that matter most to they . as I update the House late last year , we have so far invest over £ 13 billion through all our levelling - up funding stream in regenerate community nationwide , deliver real change in community like Bury . I be so pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Bury North plug the community ownership fund in the way he do . his constituency have benefit from £ 1 . 5 million of investment directly into community there , on top of the levelling - up funding of £ 20 million for bury market and the flexi - hall . community in Crewe and Nantwich be benefit from £ 37 million through the town fund and the future high street fund . I be surprised to hear from my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) and for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) about Labour ' s new car parking charge . sadly , Labour have do the same in Redcar , and I urge my hon . friend to keep up their campaign on behalf of constituent and business in their community . I be grateful to the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for reference the investment in his constituency , include in his cinema , and talk about the value of partnership work . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , whose Bill this be , mention the levelling - up partnership for Stoke . I assure he that , on top of the other funding that Stoke have already receive , Longton remain part of our focus for the partnership . funding alone be not enough . to deliver real change , we be give local people the power they need to make decision on the ground about the future of their community . the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act introduce high street rental auction to drive forward regeneration through change to compulsory purchase power ; provide more flexible pavement licence for business ; empower local people to tackle symptom of decline by bring vacant unit back into use ; increase co - operation on regeneration between landlord and local authority ; and make town centre tenancy more accessible and affordable , help to attract new business to these area and support the creation of new job and growth to sustain prosperity in the long term . we be also make it a priority to get the fundamental right . tackle the cause and impact of antisocial behaviour be key to ensure that people feel safe , which be why we be use our wide antisocial behaviour action plan , publish in March 2023 , to make the heart of our town well place to be . measure to tackle the visual marker of decline include reopen board - up shop , improve the look and feel of public space , and give tired public building a lick of paint . this include the high street accelerator programme that I have the pleasure of leading , which will bring together business , resident and community organisation to develop a long - term vision for revitalise their town centre . each of the 10 pilot scheme we have launch in town such as Oldham , Scunthorpe and neighbouring Stoke will receive funding of £ 237 , 000 over two year to set up the partnership , develop the vision and begin to deliver change . we have introduce significant planning flexibility , so that local decision maker can make well use of the building in their town centre and ensure that our high street remain place of social and commercial activity . permit development provide the freedom to change more premise from commercial to residential use , so that much need home can be create on high street and in town centre . whether we be talk about smart use of planning lever , get board - up shop back up and run , make our street safe , or invest billion in our town centre , we be breathe new life into our high street , with local leader , local people and business who know and love their community well drive the change that they know be need to make a difference . the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South build on these significant effort , and we be proud to support it . like he , I appreciate just how much it matter to community of the kind we represent . for they and for community right across the country , this be about deliver on the commitment we have make to level up growth , opportunity and pride . we be stick to our plan and stay the course , commence the measure in the Bill at the appropriate time once the Bill have Royal Assent , and ensure that local authority have the right lead - in time and guidance to designate their high street and create their improvement plan . I be enormously grateful to my hon . friend for introduce the Bill and to other hon . member for their support and contribution during this debate . we be back the Bill and back our high street . I commend the Bill to the House . I be very grateful for the Minister ' s kind word and for all his support and help in bring the Bill forward . I be grateful also to all the hon . member across the House who have show their support today . we have hear some incredibly impassione speech , which just show how much people care about their high street and the town , village and community in the constituency they represent . speak for the Opposition , the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) refer to local plan and neighbourhood plan , and I think it be right that the Bill be part of that , but it be about due consideration be give to certain matter in those plan . the Bill be not about stop development that sit outside its scope — new and exciting development come to our high street . it be just about give due consideration , so I do not think have the matter set out in the Bill will have a major impact . turn to member ' contribution , I particularly thank the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bury North for raise the importance of those heritage and cultural asset — build vibrancy , create footfall , and attract people to our high street . I be also particularly interested in what the hon . member for Belfast East say about there be too few partnership . that be what this Bill be try to address : the need to bring people together to have that governance and those plan to help address some of the issue in our town centre . to my hon . friend over the border in Cheshire , particularly to my hon . friend the Members for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) and for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) , I say that it be absolutely shocking to hear about those plan to increase and create parking charge in some of their town centre . I know that that will have a major impact . I have enjoy visit some of the town in the community that they represent , and I know that those plan will have a damaging and detrimental impact on they . a number of member reference the fact that we have many out - of - town development with free parking . that will only far emphasise the move towards those out - of - town retail space and cause more damage to our high street and town centre just at a time when we do not need it . I entirely agree with they and wish they well with their campaign . I wish to thank all member across the House for their contribution , particularly my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who also mention the impact of out - of - town shopping area . I stress that we have be work hard to get this Bill together . I hope that we can continue to work across the House to bring it forward and take it through the other place and deliver what will I think be an important piece of legislation to get our high street back on track — to revive they and to bring people back into our town and community so that they can thrive once again . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . as a Back Bencher , the opportunity to table legislation of my own — to be able to proceed in this way with the leave of the House — be rare . yes , we may question , challenge , probe , consider , support or oppose , but as a legislator the ability to legislate be constrain by the luck of the draw , the wisdom of Solomon and the patience of Job . for nine year , I have dutifully sign the ballot book for private member and think not another moment about it . then I see you take that ball , Madam Deputy Speaker , and read that number . today , in secure this opportunity , I wish to place on record my appreciation of the House staff , the Library , the Home Office Minister , who have be courteous and engage in meet I , and his official , the Government Whips , his Majesty ' s Opposition and Members of Parliament represent all party from Northern Ireland who have offer their support . to the Minister and his official I say that what start as courteous may at time have become frustrating when they see my name pop up in their inbox , but I greatly appreciate their fortitude and forbearance . more particularly , however , I claim no creativity or ingenuity around the Bill itself . in move second reading , I wish to place on record my appreciation for colleague past and present , who have seek to secure this important principled change to law govern citizenship of the United Kingdom for individual inherently of these island . even a cursory glance at the House of Commons Library ' s briefing paper highlight that this have be a long and arduous road . my colleague in the other place , Lord Hay of Ballyore , comment last year that this conundrum be first raise in the House of Commons in 1985 . let I put that in context : it be before my first birthday . for a decade , he have be a passionate advocate for the change propose in the Bill , and have seek to complement and support the sustained and unparalleled effort of my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) . a member of this House since 2001 , my hon . friend have consistently and , some might say , with characteristic fervour , relentlessly table question , pursue debate , encourage Ministers , and expertly till the ground that be consequently so fertile today . his labour have not be in vain . over the year he have collect the support of colleague across the political spectrum , in the Conservative party , the Labour party , the Ulster Unionist party , the Social Democratic and Labour party and the Alliance party of Northern Ireland . let I explain the essence of the Bill . colleague will recognise , or should recognise , that through the Belfast agreement effort be make to address issue of identity . while it be accept and acknowledge that Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom be constitutionally settle , not only could those with a compete aspiration avail themselves of irish identity , but the Republic of Ireland Government afford they the opportunity to attain irish citizenship . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman , whom I think of as my hon . friend , on introduce such an important Bill . do he agree that this issue affect people ' s life ? it be about their identity , their everyday life and their right to have british citizenship , which should not be bring into question . give our historic link with both the Republic and Northern Ireland , it be vital that we allow the Bill to proceed . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman — my hon . friend — for what he have say . I agree with he entirely , and I hope to draw on his point about our historic connection , which remain to this very day . as I have say , the Republic of Ireland Government offer people in Northern Ireland the opportunity to attain irish citizenship . some hold that citizenship singularly , while other happily enjoy dual citizenship of both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland . what be not settle at that time , however , be reciprocation in the other direction . as the House know , our history and relationship be intertwine , and the Bill seek to provide the final piece of that relationship jigsaw . anyone who be bear in the Republic of Ireland but live in the United Kingdom and who satisfy the residency test should be able to avail himself of UK citizenship . those who say , " sure , just apply for naturalisation in the normal way , " fail to recognise or respond to the special relationship that our nation have . from 1801 our nation be one , and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland accord the same citizenship protection to we all . when partition occur in 1921 , the right of those resident within the then Irish Free State to avail themselves of UK citizenship be contain through and continue within their dominion status . it be only when the Irish Republic be create and the British Nationality Act 1948 come into effect the following year that those entitlement be lose . since 1949 , that have mean that those who be bear in the Republic of Ireland but since then have live in , work in and contribute to the United Kingdom throughout their life be not able to attain british citizenship as their forefather do . as a proud Ulsterman , I remind colleague that my Province contain nine county , although only six of they be in the United Kingdom . while they do so before and have continue to do so since , the trouble in Northern Ireland perhaps most acutely provide a catalyst for family in Donegal , Monaghan and Cavan to move across the border to be with other relative . let we take , for example , my friend in the other place whom I mention early , Lord Hay of Ballyore . his lineage may well illustrate the point that I be try to make . he be bear in April 1950 in Donegal , but for the overwhelming majority of his life he have live in Londonderry , Northern Ireland . he serve on his local council from 1981 , be elect to the Northern Ireland Assembly in 1998 , and serve as its Speaker from 2007 to 2014 . that year , he be elevate to the House of Lords , and to this day he remain a peer of this realm and a legislator in our Parliament . yet he be not a british citizen . the question be : should anyone in that position — serve practically , materially and productively — be expect to pay a naturalisation fee of £ 1 , 580 and complete a " life in the UK " citizenship test ? the notion that he , as a legislator of this Parliament — or anyone in similar circumstance — should have to complete a " life in the UK " citizenship test do not make sense . it would be offensive to some individual and contrary to the spirit of reciprocation offer through the Belfast agreement in 1998 . it would be blind to our history and ignorant of the legal reality . we enjoy a common travel area already between our nation . irish citizen move throughout the United Kingdom be already exempt from immigration formality . they enjoy a range of relate right to work , vote and study , and access to education and healthcare as if they be already UK citizen . I quote the former Labour MP for Thurrock and a great friend of Northern Ireland , Andrew Mackinlay , when he debate this point in this House in 2009 . he say : " we have an opportunity , which the House will probably not have again for some year , to right a wrong , provide parity of treatment for people who be irish … and allow they to identify with their Britishness . " — [ Official Report , 14 July 2009 ; Vol . 496 , c . 220 . ] well , 15 year later , I hope we can finally right that wrong . this be not a coercive move . nothing in this Bill require somebody to avail themselves of citizenship should that not be their desire . some will conclude that , with the same right and entitlement already , it be unnecessary . we also know through Library research that some proceed to pay the naturalisation fee and complete a " life in the UK " test , no matter how offensive or inappropriate that may appear , but each year the number remain in single figure , or there be none at all . we also know from 2021 census figure in Northern Ireland that some 40 , 400 people be live in Northern Ireland who be bear in the Republic of Ireland . furthermore , we know that circa 32 , 000 of they be bear after 1948 , and therefore could avail themselves of this Bill . some 27 , 000 of those people currently hold a non - UK passport , and the remainder be split evenly between those hold a UK passport and those who continue to hold none . it will be clear from the tenor of this speech that both the Bill and my interest lie in those who live in Northern Ireland who have be disenfranchised of their citizenship from 1949 onwards . however , I appreciate from discussion with the Government that , should the Bill proceed , they believe it could be enhance with the removal of the restrictive scope that attach to either the year of commencement or the geographical location of Northern Ireland . I confirm my willingness to assent to both aspect . I say this firmly as a Unionist : UK citizenship , in principle , should apply across the United Kingdom , and need not be satisfied solely through the lens of our Province . the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee publish a report on this issue in 2021 , and it conclude : " the Home Office must understand the historical connection between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland , and the personal tie , relationship , geopolitical reality and movement of people that prevail between the two country today … citizenship issue will not be address to the satisfaction of all tradition whilst the Home Office treat Ireland and the rest of the world as an amalgam . instead , we need bespoke , granular solution . abolish the fee for irish citizen to naturalise as British would be a start . the need to complete the ' life in the UK ' test seem irrelevant and offensive , and attendance at the citizenship ceremony should be optional . " I conclude by express my gratitude to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to colleague . although this be only the first hurdle of many , I believe this Bill offer a great opportunity to attain a practical conclusion to a long - stand , principle and constitutionally and politically important campaign . I commend my private Member ' s Bill to the House . there be a real and sensitive issue at the heart of this Bill and debate . although the Bill affect resident of Northern Ireland , the issue of identity and citizenship affect we all . I begin by acknowledge the case make by the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) — or my hon . friend , as I always call he and his DUP colleague because we be so often on the same side of debate in this House , as we be today . I support this Bill and respect the point he make . he have constituent who identify as british but have an irish passport , simply because of have be bear on the other side of an open border , and their only option be to naturalise , this be sensitive to people who have grow up , and live for decade , identify as british . for they , hold a british passport and not an irish passport , so that their citizenship be consistent with their identity , be of profound and deep importance . I also recognise that there be specific condition lay down in law and in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement that shape the administrative landscape of Northern Ireland , with there be an open border with the Republic of Ireland — a border without immigration control — a common travel area and no restriction on work or live in the United Kingdom . the Government need to apply their administrative rule on route to british citizenship fairly for all resident of the UK , whether they live in Coleraine or Congleton . in discuss this issue , we need to be clear about what we mean by " national identity " and " citizenship . " national identity encompass the share value , culture , history and tradition that bind individual within a nation . this profound sense of belong and loyalty go beyond legality , form the foundation of our unity as a people . on the other hand , the administrative and legal status of citizenship be a formal recognition grant by the state . it involve adherence to specific law , right and duty , often outline in a constitution or legal framework . citizenship be a legal concept that provide individual with certain right and responsibility within the border of a nation . although national identity foster a deep emotional connection , citizenship be a practical framework that govern our interaction within the state . therefore , whether or not my hon . friend ' s Bill be successful , it will not change his constituent ' fundamental sense of british identity or the right and freedom under the Belfast / Good Friday agreement that give the people of Northern Ireland the freedom to identify as british or Irish , to co - exist and to complement their Britishness . however , I be very sympathetic to my hon . friend ' s case and acknowledge that a key outworking of be british involve a sense of allegiance that be encapsulate by hold a british passport in one ' s hand . indeed , I travel frequently abroad in my role as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , and I have a great sense of pride every time I hold that passport in my hand , so I understand the importance of other be able to do so . my hon . friend be promote a Bill that make sense , which always help . he always speak sense . its clause make it clear that we be not deal with a situation comparable to , say , resident of Coleraine and Congleton want to apply for citizenship have be bear outside UK . the requirement of propose section 4aa would make it specific to a person in Northern Ireland who have be resident pretty much continuously for a precede period of five year . to answer my own point regard the need to satisfy administrative fairness across the UK , the qualifying period of five year ' residency be equivalent to other application for citizenship that could be make in Congleton . I therefore support the Bill . as I have no further taker , I call the shadow Minister . as the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) Belfast East so eloquently explain , the issue at the heart of this debate be a fairly simple one : that , notwithstanding commitment make by the UK and irish Governments in the Good Friday agreement more than 25 year ago , question about eligibility and access to citizenship right for many people in Northern Ireland remain unresolved . he argue with conviction that the differential treatment of people depend on whether they be bear in Northern Ireland or the Republic under british nationality law be unfair and should be address . along with his Democratic Unionist party colleague , he have argue for long - stand resident of Northern Ireland bear in the Republic after 31 December 1948 to be recognise as citizen of the UK — if they consider themselves to be such — without the need to undertake a lengthy and costly process of apply to the Home Office for naturalisation . these argument have be hear in the House many time before — indeed , the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) introduce a private member ' s Bill along similar line as long ago as 2005 — and Democratic Unionist party member be not the only one to have recognise the strength of feeling among many in Northern Ireland on this issue . in 2021 , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee publish a short report that conclude : " the Government should abolish the naturalisation fee charge to irish applicant who wish to naturalise as british citizen . " it should be point out that the fee for registration or naturalisation be currently in the region of £ 1 , 500 per person , which be not by any mean an insignificant sum . in the Government ' s response to the Committee ' s report , they announce that it would " not be fair " to set such fee at different level " depend on nationality " , ignore the fact that there be already special recognition of the status of irish national across the UK ' s immigration system . the Government also argue that naturalisation and citizenship fee be an important mean by which the Home Office seek to maintain the financial sustainability of the immigration system . that may not in itself be an unreasonable position , but I do wonder whether the amount of revenue involve be really all that significant to the Home Office in the context of an annual budget in excess of £ 20 billion . as have be explain , the Bill would establish a separate stand - alone route to british citizenship for irish national bear after 1948 who have be resident in Northern Ireland , and hence in the UK , for significant period of time . the explanatory note state that application fee for the propose new route " would need to be agree and set in secondary fee legislation , take into account financial implication . " there appear to be no expectation of a blanket fee exemption for applicant under the new rule . on that basis , assume that the Government support the Bill , it might help the House if the Minister confirm what criterion will be use in set the level of application fee under the new system . will the goal remain the same as those previously set out by the Government , and which I quote , with respect to maintain parity between citizenship and naturalisation application across all nationality ? what provision , if any , do the Government intend to make for individual exemption to the usual fee under the new system , assume that be introduce ? in the same report that I cite early , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee conclude that in addition to the fee , the mandatory " life in the UK " test and the requirement to attend a citizenship ceremony should also be waive for irish citizen seek naturalisation in the UK . in their response to the Committee , the Government insist that it be right to maintain these requirement for all application and to limit the scope for exemption to the special circumstance of a particular case , such as those who have long - term health reason that would preclude their attendance . their response , which be publish in January 2022 , add : " in order to continue with ceremony during the pandemic we work with Local Authorities to develop and deliver virtual ceremony , and we will assess their ongoing use as this immediate need reduce . they may be retain to allow a more inclusive approach for those who , due to long - term issue , might otherwise be exclude . " if , as I understand it , the Government do not plan to oppose the Bill , could the Minister confirm , in light of the long - stand concern about the " Life in the UK " test and the ceremony requirement , whether he envisage make specific provision to address these issue within the propose new route to citizenship that the Bill envisage ? on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I say in close that the hon . member for Belfast East have put forward strong and persuasive argument in support of his Bill . the Government ' s support will , I hope , be welcome by member who represent Northern Ireland ' s community in this House . on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I be happy to add my party ' s support to this Bill , too . may I start by congratulate my friend the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) on his success in the ballot ? his nine year of try have yield a positive result , and it be terrific that we can debate this Bill today . I appreciate his bring attention to this important issue about application process for irish national to become british citizen . I be pleased to confirm that the Bill have the Government ' s support , subject to some propose change in Committee , which I will address . it have be a pleasure to work constructively with the hon . gentleman to date on those point . he have eloquently set out the argument and rationale for the Bill . he be also right to highlight that it respond directly to so many of the challenge raise by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , whose report he quote from directly . it be in that spirit that I be pleased we have be engage with the hon . Gentleman and that he agree with the necessary change that we require to take this Bill forward in Committee and beyond . that will mean that the current version of the Bill , which will be put to the House today , will be revise in Committee , with member able to express their view and opinion on those amendment and then to debate and vote on they in the usual way . that process will mean that the Bill will become marginally broad and more inclusive . first , it will be available to irish national , regardless of how they become irish , and not just to those bear in Ireland . secondly , it will not have a requirement that an irish national must have be bear after a certain date . thirdly , qualify resident will be able to be from any part of the United Kingdom , and not just Northern Ireland . we be confident that those change will address equality concern with the current version of the Bill , while still benefit those whom the hon . Gentleman want to cover . the other requirement before the House today will not change . the Government be clear in our support for the underlie principle of the Bill , and we will work with the hon . gentleman to produce an amend version in Committee . when those change have be make , the Bill will enjoy the Government ' s full support . we be confident that the amend route will not undermine the integrity of the system ; it be about introduce a more appropriate route for people who could otherwise seek to naturalise . it be , of course , possible that the route may yet be use proportionately more by people resident in Northern Ireland , but we think it be important that british citizenship reflect tie to the whole United Kingdom , not just one constituent part . it be our belief that a dedicated route for irish citizen would reduce the burden for applicant , create a more straightforward route to become a british citizen . that would potentially also allow for the charging of a low fee , although no firm decision have be make , and that would form part of later secondary legislation , make through the fee order , should the Bill attain Royal Assent . I suspect that the hon . Gentleman will be keen to have conversation with I on that point , and I be definitely willing to engage constructively as we take the Bill forward . to respond directly to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , the " Life in the UK " test would not be a requirement with this Bill in place , and it be important to make that clear on the record this afternoon . in conclusion , I again congratulate the hon . member for Belfast East on his success in the ballot and for help the Government to find a way to correct this issue in our nationality system . I be incredibly grateful for the constructive and good - natured way in which he always conduct his business in the House , but particularly so on this matter , work both with myself and with official . the Bill will help reaffirm and reflect the unique position of irish national in the UK and make a credible difference to those irish national who wish also to be british citizen . as I have say , if the suggest amendment be make in Committee , we will firmly support the Bill . we wish it well as it travel through the House , and I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman . I appreciate all the contribution to the debate . just to reflect on the private Member ' s Bill ballot , not only do I sign up nine year in a row , but I sign the same number nine year in a row — 322 for anyone who be interested . I greatly appreciate the support of the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) and , to dispel the myth of any cynic out there , I hope to be in a position to support her private Member ' s Bill in a moment or so , but my support be not conditional on what she say in this debate on my Bill , because hers be similarly as principle . I be grateful to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) for his intervention and to the shadow Minister for his contribution . I hope he appreciate from my contribution that there be no ownership of this issue . it have be a long - stand campaign from a number of colleague of mine and , indeed , from member across the House , include colleague of his . perceptively , the shadow Minister also raise the issue of fee , and the Minister graciously indicate that that be a discussion yet to be have , but it will come in secondary legislation should the Bill proceed . the Minister know clearly where I shall start in that constructive discussion , and I suspect that he will not start in the same place , but hopefully we can be pragmatic . it be at least good for the Minister to know that the opposition will be in a sensible place at the start of that discussion too , so he should bear that in mind — I say that in jest . to the Minister , let I say that this have be a pleasure . he add further context to my reference early to the forbearance of official and all those who have have to engage with I in the discussion of this Bill and the complexity around it . as I say in my contribution , what the Minister have outline cause I no difficulty whatsoever from a unionist perspective . I be totally content with where the Government believe this should go , but the constraint around an early publish title mean that we have have to take a curvi route to , hopefully , the same destination . I be grateful to have have this opportunity , and I look forward to continue the engagement with official . I trust that we will be able to land this , because it be only in 2009 — 15 year ago — that a former Labour MP say , " we need to take this opportunity now , because it may not come back for some time to come . " what a good - natured and constructive debate we have have . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I declare an obvious interest : I be the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . however , the purpose of the Bill be for the sake of my successor , to ensure that the role and office be place on a statutory footing . why ? one reason be that the landmark Truro review by the noble Lord Bishop of Winchester , previously the Bishop of Truro , recommend that it should happen . the Truro review be initiate by the then Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , and I thank he for his support for my work and this Bill . I also thank the current Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , for his support for the Bill , and in particular the Minister of State present today , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , for come to respond to this debate and for his support for my role . in 2019 the noble Lord Bishop , then of Truro , be ask to review what more the then Foreign and Commonwealth Office could do to address the persecution of Christians around the world . the Truro review make practical recommendation for an enhanced response to the plight of persecute Christians . I emphasise that those recommendation also cover people persecute for hold other religion or belief , or no religious belief at all , as do my envoy role . in particular , recommendation 6 be to specifically establish " permanently , and in perpetuity , the role of Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief with appropriate resource and authority to work across FCO department " . that recommendation , along with the other 21 recom - mendation , be fully accept by the Government , not least because it be — and remain — this Government ' s manifesto commitment to fully implement the Truro review . it be endorse by the Prime Minister just last October , and I be pleased that it be support on a cross - party basis by member from every party in this House and across civil society . I be also very pleased to see the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) , who will be respond to the debate on behalf of the opposition , because she too have support the work of the role of special envoy on many occasion . the independent review of the progress make in implement the Truro review ' s recommendation , which take place in 2022 — three year into the implementation of the Truro review , which be publish in 2019 — state that recommendation 6 " appear to contemplate a permanent Special Envoy position establish by law rather than appoint by the Prime Minister … the establishment of such a permanent position have not occur , and so ' no substantial action have be take , to date ' with respect to deliver this aspect of the Recommendation . " I be honour to be the special envoy , but I be very conscious that I hold that office at the discretion of the Prime Minister of the day . it have be my privilege to serve under three Prime Ministers , but there be no guarantee that such an appointment will be make under any future Prime Minister . the Bill be an important measure to solidify the position and work of the special envoy . I be humble to say that the role have acquire lead international standing , not just through my work but also that of my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) and Lord Ahmad — the first envoy , who have support the Bill strongly and publicly . he make that clear at the launch two week ago of the late Open Doors world watch list , a gathering of almost 100 member of Parliament . by make the role statutory , the Bill would remove any risk of the envoy ' s role be at the whim or interest of any future Prime Minister , whatever their political colour . the House should pay tribute to my hon . friend for her sterling and dedicated work over many year . although she be talk about the mechanic of why her job be necessary , I hope that she will say a few word about what be actually go on in the world and the appalling religiously motivate attack . in Nigeria ' s Benue state there be 119 attack in 2023 alone , and 400 people be kill . in neighbour Plateau state , 300 people be kill . the world seem to be ignore these massacre . black life matter everywhere . they matter in Nigeria and everywhere , and we should talk much more about this , but that be not the fault of my hon . friend , who have do so much in this field . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I might come on to discuss how important it be to challenge the perception that this be somehow a niche interest , perhaps for those who have strong religious belief . it can not become a niche interest , because hundred of million of man , woman and child around the world suffer persecution and discrimination , whether under the hard arm of authoritarian regime or at the ruthless whim of militant mob , and they need not just our voice but our partnership ; not just our word , but our action ; and not just our good will , but our good deed . the Bill will help in the long term to support those action and good deed , which we need to take in partnership with other across the world . today we have an opportunity to deliver the sixth recommendation of the Truro review , and the recom - mendation of the expert who provide an independent review three year later . the Bill will provide in law the authority and permanence that be consistent with the significance of the issue internationally — exactly the point my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) have just make . if there be insufficient time to speak at length about the many atrocity be perpetrate across the world as we speak , I urge those listen to the debate to read the Hansard report of yesterday ' s Westminster Hall debate on religious persecution and the Open Doors world watch list 2024 . that be one of many debate that we have host in the House . I want to pay tribute to parliamentarian across the party , because my work internationally show that we be unique in this country in have such strong cross - party collaboration on this issue . there be no other Parliament in the world with so many parliamentarian who regard this as a critical issue , and who actively engage . the fact that there be about 170 member of the all - party group for international freedom of religion or belief — the big APPG in Parliament , I believe — be testament to that . enact this Bill would , as I have say , provide in law the authority that be consistent with the importance of this issue and the lead global role that the UK play , include through its Ministers — I know that the Minister of State who be present today be passionate about this issue — in champion that foundational human right . as we have recently celebrate the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human right , draw up after the atrocity of the holocaust , and as we approach Holocaust Memorial Day tomorrow , what more fitting way could there be to demonstrate our commitment to article 18 of the universal declaration of human right than to pass this Bill ? article 18 state : " everyone have the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion ; this right include freedom to change his religion or belief , and freedom , either alone or in community with other and in public or private , to manifest his religion or belief in teaching , practice , worship and observance . " pass the Bill would show that we be serious about advocate that fundamental human right for the long term . regrettably , too many government view FORB merely as a topic of niche interest , to be engage in by a few of we with a particularly religious perspective on life . but FORB be not a niche topic and that perception have to change . we live in an increasingly unstable world in which there be increasingly authoritarian regime . religious belief be anathema to any authoritarian regime , as they demand undivided loyalty . we can promote change today by support the Bill . indeed , forb concern should be core concern at every international summit , because they be at the core of so many violation of human right across the world today . FORB be a foundational human right , and I give the example of woman in Iran who bravely lead the charge against that brutal regime . journalist and politician alike have not fully grasp the fact that , at heart , their protest be about forb violation . the imposition of religious dress code be a forb issue . it be forb that the iranian regime fear most , because FORB represent an existential threat for it . with angry crowd shout , " Woman , Life , Freedom " , it be the full realisation and actualisation of freedom of religion or belief that will ensure not just respect for woman , but for all of society . on that issue hang the future of Iran . we have become accustomed to country pay lip service to forb right and obligation , and sign up to international agreement such as article 18 without honour the obligation within they . it be simply not acceptable for a young girl to be kidnap from her home and forcibly so - call married by be rape multiple time , and then when she go to a police station or try to get justice through the court , to be turn away in a country that have sign up to article 18 , with all of that happen simply because of her religious belief . without the freedom to believe or not to believe , it be hard to see how other human right can make sense . freedom of speech , assembly , movement and expression , and the right to equality before the law , to education , to privacy , to family life and to marriage — all those thing and more be predicate and contingent on the right to thought , conscience and religion . citizen can not be truly free if they be not able to live accord to their belief . without the existence and expression of what have long be consider a sacred inner liberty , those other external right lack grounding and legitimacy . political social and economic freedom can not co - exist alongside major limitation on freedom of religion or belief . freedom of religion or belief can exist without democracy , but it be hard to see how democracy can exist without freedom of religion or belief . that be why this work and this Bill be so important . so why not support the Bill ? the independent Truro review point out that the creation of the envoy role in statute " would be unprecedented , as no special envoy position in the UK have thus far be establish by law . " yet the argument about precedent be that it always take a precedent be make the first time for good reason to create a long - stand precedent . there be good reason to do so here , as I hope I be state . in reality , the unprecedented level of persecution across the world on account of what people believe , which be affect hundred of million across swathe of religion and belief , make the Bill so important . that be at the heart of the Truro review . after he embark on the review four year ago , the Bishop of Winchester state that he be " shocked " by the scale , scope and severity of the abuse of forb globally . the Pew Research Centre estimate that 83 % of the world ' s population live in country where there be some restriction on religion or belief . a Christian be kill every two hour somewhere in the world , simply on account of their belief . the Open Doors world watch list 2024 set out an increase again in the number of Christians persecute — up to 365 million , which be one in seven across the world . as I have say , the issue do not just affect Christians but people of all faith and belief . I know that a number of colleague wish to speak , but I turn briefly to press concern about the violation of FORB . if we want to look at an example of why the precedent of a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief in this country be so important , we need only look over the Atlantic to be inspire by the United States ' International Religious Freedom Act , which permanently establish the equivalent role of an ambassador - at - large for religious freedom and an office to support the role some 25 year ago . in my role , I have have the privilege over the last three year to work closely , weekly and in some case daily , with the US State Department . from 2022 to 2023 , I be chair of the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , which be a grow alliance that now have 43 county commit to work together , and follow the end of my term , I be honour to have be elect as vice chair . have work with the US State Department , I have see its capacity , experience and knowledge , which have come only as a result of have an establish office over many year , and its effective work to support international collaboration on the issue of freedom of religion or belief . I will not speak for much long , as I sense a number of colleague wish to contribute . Marc Sidwell , the director of the Henry Jackson Society , write recently : " to build on all that have be achieve , the Government should act decisively , follow the recommendation of the Truro Report and make championing international religious freedom an official duty of Whitehall , embed in legislation . the law which bring similar reform to the US Government , the International Religious Freedom Act , be celebrate its 25th anniversary this year , and show the endure value of such a commitment … as America learn during the Cold War , the defence of religious freedom abroad be not just a humanitarian priority but a key component of stand up for the value of the free and democratic world . an increase body of research show that the price of religious repression be measure not just in human suffering , vast and appalling as that toll remain , but in the growth of intolerant , dangerous ideology , as well as economic immiseration . the global decline in religious freedom be both a humanitarian and a strategic crisis . by take religious freedom seriously , we can see emerge threat more clearly , and understand well how to act against they . " Professor Malcolm Evans be one of the independent reviewer of the Truro review , and he be a member of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office advisory group on human right . I urge the Minister to look at convene a meeting of that advisory group soon . he attend a parliamentary event in this place last October on the publication of the report I just quote from . he be an expert in this field — a professor who have work for decade on the subject . he say : " in particular , the establishment of the Office of the Special Envoy have be a real driver of , and catalyst , for change . what be need be for that Office to have legislative grounding to ensure that this continue , that it have a more clearly define position and that its impact continue to grow . this will also mean that the lens of freedom of religion or belief be use when engage with foreign policy more generally : after all , a duty be a duty — and something that Government understand . make it so will help support the development of detailed , focusse and clearly articulate policy and strategy which will complement , take up and lend further substance to what be already now in place . " we need to secure the groundwork already in place here in the UK to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief . we need to build on the firm foundation that many here have lay . we must not risk slip back . I ask colleague to support the Bill . in the Book of St Matthew 7 : 16 , it say , " by their fruit you shall know they . " across this House , every one of we represent constituent , but some of we represent much more than just our constituent . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , who embody that piece of scripture . in all the year I have be here and in all the engagement we have have , she embody that so fundamentally . the fact that , in December 2020 , she be appoint as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy on freedom of religion or belief be of no surprise to I , know her commitment personally and her passion for these issue , but the fact that she bring forward this Bill not about she , but about the continuation of the quest , the campaign or , in this context , the mission field , be very important indeed . I be delighted to rise in support of the Bill and the hon . Lady ' s bring it forward . she be small and quiet , but she be mighty , and she always have be mighty in her endeavour . she bring an assured and engaging zeal to these issue in the good time and the bad . the hon . Lady rightfully mention the watch list launch last week in Parliament . that watch list captivate Members of Parliament each and every year . some member of Parliament go because they be concern ; all member of Parliament who go leave concerned . some turn up just because they get score of card encourage they to do so . but if they take the time to go and hear the plight of 371 million Christians throughout the world — and the issue be not just about Christians — they leave embolden to ensure that we do what we can , with our relative luxury , to assist those around the world who do not have such fortunate circumstance . have a love of Jesus should not impact on people ' s ability to live freely , to work within their community or to talk about their feeling or faith , but that be what happen to many around the world . as I say , it be not just about Jesus ; many in this world have a faith that be different from mine , but they suffer similarly . I say similarly because the same thing always occur to I when I get the chance to attend the open Doors event , which leave I annoyed but determined . I always think about how many people live among we in this country over - use and abuse the word " persecution " and never reflect on what be go on around the world . they have not a clue or an understanding about the key issue — and neither do I , but I open my heart and my ear to see they and hear they . I genuinely think those be important annual event that give we the opportunity not only to engage with like - minded people but to leave with a sense that , in whatever field we work or in whatever faith field we live , we have a contribution to make in this space . the fact that the Prime Minister be able to lift the recommendation from the Bishop of Truro and appoint a special envoy be great . it have be impact by a worldwide pandemic and probably have not achieve all that we wish to achieve , but the Prime Minister ' s current incumbent , the hon . member for Congleton , trust that the role can be put to good purpose for many year to come . there be a valid , valiant and purposeful role for the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for our nation to speak on these issue . internationally , we be credit for our role , as she mention . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who have chair the APPG for many year and who raise issue from around the world every Thursday in question to the Leader of the House , recognise the importance of these issue and of our continually encourage the Government to speak and act powerfully in this space . it be no surprise that that interest lead to our aid contribution and humanitarianism across the world be as powerful as they be . we can not overstate the issue , and neither should we underplay the importance of seek to lift the proposal to place the role of a special envoy on a statutory footing . it have my full support , and I commend the hon . member for Congleton for the step that she take in her role and for the Bill that she put before we today . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) for introduce this excellent Bill and for her fantastic opening speech . I can think of no one well in Parliament to bring forward this important Bill , give the outstanding work that she have be do as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . I particularly commend my hon . friend for the work she do in July 2022 , with the UK host the international ministerial conference on freedom of religion or belief , and for her work in chair the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance . freedom of religion or belief should be a fundamental human right , but all too often , and increasingly so around the world today , we see people ' s freedom challenge and worry increase in the persecution of minority group due to their faith . as my hon . Friend say , the Open Doors world watch list note that 365 million Christians be subject to high level of persecution and discrimination last year — a rise of 25 million people since 2021 . the Pew Research Centre have find that of 198 country survey , Government or societal harassment be present in 155 against Christians , in 145 against Muslims and in 94 against Jews . in recent month , here in the UK we have see a worrying number of incident of antisemitic and Islamophobic hate . I know that the Government , with my hon . friend the Member for Congleton , have be make huge effort at home and abroad to tackle these worrying increase in suppression of religious freedom . the conference hold in London two year ago result in 35 country sign statement on freedom of religion or belief , which I think be a testament to the interest and support around the world for these issue and the work that the UK and my hon . friend have lead . I know also from the Westminster Hall debate in September lead by my hon . friend of the significant interest across the House , and the significant work under way in which the UK be take a leadership role internationally . we be bring together some of our key partner and ally right around the world to highlight the injustice and persecution of minority group , and with they to take action to address some of these concern . although the focus be increase on the issue of freedom of religion or belief , my hon . friend be right to bring forward this important Bill . make her role as special envoy for freedom of religion or belief a permanent one in statute be of major significance . as she say , it follow recommendation 6 of the Bishop of Truro ' s review , which be to establish the position of special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , which I believe be intend to mean " establish in law " . recommendation 6 state specifically that the Foreign Secretary should " establish suitable instrument / role to monitor and implement such an approach , take into consideration other international approach , and specifically establish permanently , and in perpetuity , the role of Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief with appropriate resource and authority to work across FCO department support by a Director General - level champion for FoRB . " the Government support that . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have express support for the Bill ' s intent , and the conservative party manifesto commit to full implementation of the Truro review . most important , give that abuse of these vital freedom be increase around the world , the Bill send a clear and strong message to country where serious abuse be take place — especially the 13 country mention previously that be of particular concern — that we in the UK stand with all those minority group and individual member of minority religion who be be persecute . it demonstrate to the world the UK ' s full support and commitment to stand by those who be be oppress and whose religious freedom be be restrict , right around the world . the Bill be crucial to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief , and the UK Government have state that that be high priority for they . freedom of religion or belief be a key element of the UN declaration , article 18 of which set out as an important pillar not only freedom of religion or belief , but freedom of thought , which I think be particularly important . it be vital that the UK , with its lead role in the UN Security Council , also take a lead role both at home and abroad in promote freedom of religion and belief right around the world . we need to bring to task those country that oppress minority group and have a total disregard for some of those freedom , and make it clear that we will always highlight where we think wrong need to be address . by put that role into statute , as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton say , show that we be in this for the long term . we will not cease raise these concern and highlight they internationally . we will continue to stand by those religious minority and oppress group right around the world , and continue to support they . I fully support the Bill and wish my hon . friend well with its passage through this House and the other place . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) for bring forward this Bill today . have be in many debate with she , I can say that her dedication and commitment to the cause of freedom of religion or belief be second to none . it be definitely a cause that be dear to her heart and to the heart of many of we in the Chamber . as the hon . Lady say , some might consider this to be a niche or perhaps even a Conservative - only issue , and I could not disagree more . freedom of religion or belief be a core tenet of fundamental human right and will always be at the heart of Labour ' s outlook on the world , and at the centre of the shaping of our foreign policy . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary have previously make that clear and have meet representative and organisation campaign on this topic on many occasion . in his role and during these meeting , he have make it clear that Labour will ensure that the UK stand against persecution and oppression in any form , and will promote freedom of religion or belief as a key component of our foreign policy . we know that article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , which have historically not receive the same precedence as other human right , be reflect in recommendation 6 of the review that the Bishop of Truro carry out in 2019 . we know that this be something that we need to be aware of , perhaps elevate some right above other . the recommendation say : " Freedom of Religion or Belief be perhaps the most fundamental human right because so many other depend upon it . . . in the West we tend to set one right against another . but in much of the world this right be not in opposition to other but rather be the linchpin upon which other depend . and we in the West need to be awake to such dependency and not dismiss FoRB as irrelevant to other right . if freedom of religion or belief be remove so many other right be put in jeopardy too . " the work that the hon . Lady and other in the House have do have be very relevant to this reminder from the then Bishop of Truro . labour would like to put on record its thank to he for his assiduous work in this regard , and for that seminal report on which so much of the work in Parliament in the year follow have be base . although it be undeniable that , in many country include the UK , religious freedom be something that we take for grant , and people can worship or choose not to worship — here , I would mention the Humanist Society , which do excellent work at an educational level to encourage the recognition of people who have no faith , as their right not to have a faith be also very important — we know that , in vast swathe of the world , there be not that level of tolerance . there be a grow trend in recent year of religious minority be persecute simply because of the belief that they hold and cherish so dearly . I know that member have often point out specific example . I have be in debate where the hon . member for Congleton have raise , for example , the treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority in the Xinjiang region of the People ' s Republic of China . I know that , in my brief on the Asia and Pacific area , there be many clear example which need to be address . none the less , we know that the persecution of religious minority happen in many part of the world . I also wish to put on record the work of Lord Ahmad on particular issue in the Ahmadiyya community , which we know suffer disproportionately compare with other minority . the opposition will not stand in the way of this Bill today . that say , there be a few consideration that we would like to put before the Public Bill Committee . how would we balance the other right that may occasionally collide with this question of a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief ? for example , there be sincere concern about backslide in any area relate to woman and girl in any part of the world , with particular reference to their reproductive right . similarly , there be concern about the message it may send to the global LGBT + community . it will be important for the Committee to balance all those element in any future consideration of the Bill . although freedom of religion or belief do not necessarily conflict with either of these issue , concern will be raise and it would be wrong to give the impression that we be put right in a hierarchy . on a technical level , I also have reservation about appoint a special envoy on a statutory basis , as it might weaken the Government ' s flexibility and responsiveness in appoint special envoy , as and when require , to deal with the ever - change global situation . we have see that demonstrate in recent week with the Minister ' s appointment of a representative for humanitarian affair in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , a move call for and subsequently welcome by the Labour party . these be the sort of flexibility that the Prime Minister of the day have at their disposal . it be very fitting that we be have this debate on the Friday before Holocaust Memorial Day , which will be celebrate in my constituency on Sunday . the Community Security Trust , which the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) mention , as well as Tell MAMA and other organisation deal with Islamophobia , do important work . it be important that we do not allow any of these matter to divide our community here at home . the House will continue to debate and scrutinise the situation face freedom of religion or belief , and I would welcome the comment of both the Minister and the hon . member for Congleton on the issue raise . I start by thank the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , for introduce the International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill . I also take this moment to express my gratitude to my hon . friend for her tireless devotion to promote and protect forb for everybody . my thank also go to her deputy , David Burrowes , for his commitment to this important work . freedom of religion or belief remain a human right priority for the British Government . the work of the special envoy , especially through the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , and the effort across the Foreign Office network be make a difference around the world . the Bill seek far to cement Britain ' s commitment to forb by make statutory the role of the special envoy . the Bill state : " the duty of the Special Envoy be to work to promote and protect international freedom of religion or belief … ; raise awareness of case of concern … and advocate for the right of people … who be discriminate against or persecute for their faith or belief ; work with representative of other government , include other Special Envoys , to promote freedom of religion or belief around the world . " that have very much be the sense of the excellent speech we have hear today . the Bill cover the reporting requirement for the special envoy and how the term and condition of the role should be determine . additionally , the Bill will establish an office of the special envoy : " the principal duty of the Office be to support the work of the Special Envoy . in establish the Office , the Prime Minister must provide the Special Envoy with such staff , and such accommodation , equipment and other facility , as the Prime Minister consider necessary for the carrying out of the Special Envoy ' s function . " the Government ' s commitment to the role of special envoy be clear . indeed , we have have three special envoy to date . I make it clear that the Bill do not establish a precedent for other similar role . uniquely , legislate for this post follow an independent report recommendation and a most important manifesto commitment . today the Government deliver on that commitment , which be especially important give the internationally recognise leadership that my hon . friend the Member for Congleton have provide . the Bill underline our commitment to forb , and , importantly , support the implementation of recommendation 6 of the Bishop of Truro ' s 2019 review of the fcdo ' s work on FORB , which recommend that the role of special envoy for forb be establish " permanently , and in perpetuity " . implementation of the bishop ' s recommendation be , as I have say , a manifesto commitment , and we thank he very much for his work . as be mention by the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) , there will be opportunity during the Bill ' s passage to consider any possible amendment to improve it , and my official and I will work with my hon . friend the Member for Congleton in that regard ; but the Government will support the Bill today . the current special envoy ' s term of reference state that she will " work with the Minister for Human Rights " — my noble Friend Lord Ahmad — and " through the Foreign Secretary , to the Prime Minister . the Envoy be ask to report twice yearly to the Prime Minister on progress , in addition to provide ad hoc report on important issue arise , or follow overseas visit as Special Envoy " . that be in line with what the Bill propose . let I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Congleton on her work and accomplishment as chair of the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , and on have be ask last year to continue her role for a second year . that be the first time such a request have be make in the organisation ' s history . most notable be the expansion of the IRFBA ' s membership , with , now , 42 nation come together to highlight violation and abuse of forb and advocate for those who be be persecute . the IRFBA - issue joint statement and campaign that my hon . friend have initiate underline the impact that we can have when we speak with one voice . the statement on counter antisemitism and the persecution of Christians be widely support , with 16 country support the statement of antisemitism and 22 country support the statement on the persecution of Christians . the statement underline the ongoing concern to the international community , and set out how to address and tackle those issue . the monthly advocacy that the hon . friend have initiate of highlight individual case of religious prisoner of conscience be another important and valuable piece of work that the IRFBA have initiate under her chairmanship . I be delighted to learn that of the people whose case she publicly support in 2022 , two be release last year : Hannah Abdimalik , a Christian in Somaliland , and Shamil Khakimov , a Jehovah ' s Witness in Tajikistan . I also congratulate my hon . friend on her effort on the planning and implementation of a virtual global youth summit last October . it be quite an achievement to bring together 510 participant from 77 country to fulfil a key priority follow the international ministerial conference on FORB , hold in London in 2022 , which set out the need to inspire a new generation of forb advocate . at that conference we bring together more than 800 faith and belief leader , human right actor , and 100 Government delegation to agree on action to promote and protect forb . my noble Friend Lord Ahmad announce new UK funding to support forb defender , include those persecute because of their activism , as well as funding and expertise for country prepare to make legislative change to protect forb . as a result of the conference , 47 government , international organisation and other entity make pledge to take action in support of forb , and since the conference we have build on the momentum in a number of way . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton have also continue to raise awareness of restriction on the right to forb across the world . she do that in many way , include call debate in the House , as she do yesterday in initiate a Westminster Hall debate on the Open Doors world watch list report . she have also bring civil society expert together with fcdo official in a series of country - specific roundtable , include , but not limit to , Iraq , Myanmar , Nigeria , Ukraine and Pakistan . such debate and roundtable be vital to ensure that these issue can be address and resolve . the british high commission in Islamabad , for example , be engage with senior Government official and civil society on the need to ensure the safety of the christian community at this troubling time , and we want to see that work continue in every possible way . all this demonstrate how commit the Government be to freedom of religion and belief , and how we continue to engage closely with my hon . friend the Member for Congleton in all the brilliant work that she do . let I end by reiterate the Government ' s support for the role of special envoy for forb and our support for the Bill , and congratulate my hon . friend on her commitment and perseverance in bring forward the Bill . with the leave of the House , I call Fiona Bruce . thank you ; I will be very brief . I thank all colleague across the House for their support for this Bill and their kind remark and , in particular , the Minister of State for give up his time to come to the House to confirm the Government ' s support . I thank the Prime Minister for his personal and active support for my role . I will also repeat the thank that the Minister of State have relay to David Burrowes , the Prime Minister ' s deputy special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , who work alongside I daily in this role and without whom I could not do it . in fact , I say that to he when I be approach to take up the role and he say , " you take it up and I will help you , " and he have . the Bill would not be be bring forward today but for David ' s sterling work in this field . I also thank Lord Alton of Liverpool for his work over many year on this issue . it be Lord Alton who first take I to a meeting of aid to the Church in Need , where I hear at first hand of the atrocity that be be perpetrate against people around the world simply on account of their belief . finally , I thank Mervyn Thomas , the founder president of CSW . he start CSW 43 year ago and have work on this issue ever since . he approach I within a few day of my enter this House as a Member of Parliament and ask whether he could discuss the issue with I . I pay tribute to he for all that he have do over the year . it be so encouraging to hear he say that there have never be a time at which those around the world concern about abuse of freedom of religion or belief have be work more collaboratively . that be much need , because there have never be a time when those abuse have be so great . this Bill and its safe passage will be an important step in strengthen the UK ' s work , in collaboration with other , towards a future in which freedom of religion or belief be honour and strong . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . access to Telecommunications Networks Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the second time . the Access to Telecommunications Networks Bill seek to ensure that , wherever someone live , they can choose which operator their mobile phone will connect to . we have a Westminster Hall debate on this on Wednesday , so there be an inevitable element of repetition , but if something be worth say once , it be probably worth say twice , and there be good cross - party support for improve and speed up the roll - out of the share rural network . the network be the Government ' s scheme to increase 4 g coverage from 91 % to 95 % of the UK land mass by 2025 , and it be welcome , as be the Government ' s investment of half a billion pound on new mast for total notspot where no signal be available . however , the roll - out be not progress as quickly as we would like , so this Bill seek to improve or speed up the rate at which people in place in my constituency such as Cockshutt , Woore or West Felton get a usable phone signal from more than one provider wherever they travel in the local area . improve rural coverage be really important for all sort of reason . most importantly to I , it be one of the top issue raise by my constituent — I have a series of open meeting over the summer where it come up time and again as something that people find frustrating in their daily life — and if it be their issue , it be my issue . that be one of the reason why I have be so keen to pursue it in this place . accord to a survey for the Country Land and Business Association , 80 % of rural business owner say that improved connectivity would make the single large improvement to their business . that be partly because they struggle to recruit , which be link to poor public transport , but it be also important for the people they might want to employ to be able to access a wide range of job opportunity and to work flexibly from home in a way that be not always currently available to people in rural area . mobile phone have be cite as the default back - up option in a power cut once the copper landline network be switch off in the next couple of year . I emphasise how concern that is , particularly to elderly constituent who might be a little less familiar with " voice over internet " technology , as well as everybody in the area who be worried about what happen when a big power cut occur . because we be rural , our power be not put back online as quickly as in some urban area , and while back - up battery for router will last for one to two hour , we be sometimes off for much long than that . someone at home on their own in the dark and frightened might want to be able to call someone other than the emergency service in the event of a power cut . it be really important that people can access their mobile provider — whoever that might be — when the power be down . respondent to a survey recently conduct by Building Digital UK cite poor mobile coverage as a major factor exacerbate poor outcome from agricultural injury . I do not wish to dwell on disaster , but a couple of year ago we see a number of combine harvest fire across my constituency . if such people be in a partial notspot , they can already ring 999 from their phone , but in that situation they might want to call all sort of other people to help they . it be not just 999 call that be need . just over a year ago , I do a shift with an ambulance crew , where the crew use a mobile signal to download patient datum on to their tablet to help with patient ' condition . we visit an elderly lady near Ellesmere who be very poorly , and although we be quite close to the town centre , the crew could not download her medical record , so her care be necessarily compromise compare with what somebody in an urban area might expect . finally , improve rural coverage would reduce digital inequality , which be talk about a lot in this place . many people do not feel that comfortable on a full broadband - connect computer but have learn how to use a phone — it be part of everyday life — and if they can not use it as they move around on their daily routine , they be leave out to a great extent . we all understand that there be technical challenge to building mast in rural area — not least in get a power supply out there — and that that be why there be a disparity between rural and urban area . that be a fact of life when live in a rural area — I think people do understand that — but North Shropshire be one of the bad serve area in the country . Less than 60 % of premise have coverage indoor from all operator , when the average for the whole of the UK be 86 % . once we move away from the town and into the village , less than one in three can choose which operator they have in their home . as we know — we have talk about this at length and the Minister acknowledge it in oral question recently — the coverage datum be very optimistic and do not always reflect what be happen on the ground . for example , in North Shropshire I have be to talk to people in Trefonen , where some map say they should have coverage but that be not the live experience . there be also a capacity issue whereby the coverage might be there but call might drop out regularly because other people be link up to that mast at the same time . the datum we use to assess the success of the roll - out be therefore very important . as I mention , the share rural network have involve the four mobile network operator spend half a billion pound to end partial notspot . because EE already have an extensive network of mobile mast , it have already meet its obligation even though the deadline be June 2024 — it be six month ahead — but accord to report in the Daily Telegraph , the other three provider have request a delay . that be down to a number of reason , some of which be difficult to overcome , such as lack of planning resource , the logistical challenge I mention early , and issue over access to land . those be impact the delivery of the share rural network . it be interesting that not a single mast that will be deliver by the Government for the total notspot have be build yet , accord to the House of Commons Library briefing . there be challenge that be difficult to overcome , but part of the problem be that EE have not share its mast , because it have fail to reach agreement with the other mobile network operator . that be a commercial issue and be part of the commercial negotiation , so whether EE be ask for too high a rate , or whether the other mobile operator be offer too low a rate , be a matter of perspective , but the reality be that we could have achieve well coverage without blight the countryside with load of additional mast if those operator have share their network equipment effectively . that be where this Bill come in , because it would ensure that operator share their equipment wherever possible , and would penalise they where they do not . the rate at which they would share it would be determine by Ofcom to help ease the commercial discussion along . sometimes share be not possible — sometimes a big , wide , strong mast be need and that might not be possible — and that bring I to the solution of rural roaming , which be strongly oppose by the industry . the industry argue that it cause shorten battery life , people might drop call , it do not deal with total notspot and , perhaps most importantly , it would undermine future investment , presumably because competitive advantage would be undermine . however , an Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee report in 2019 say that it would achieve an equivalent result to the share rural network and be achievable in around 18 month . an Ofcom report in 2018 say that the cost do not appear disproportionate . since those report , the share rural network agreement have be sign , but there be significant concern about the speed of roll - out , the quality of the datum we be use to judge success , and the fact that this be yesterday ' s technology and we be not yet there in the countryside — while the rest of the country be hope to get 5 g or stand - alone 5 g in the near future . the Bill would address those shortfall by require the Secretary of State to improve rural roam by incentivise company to engage in that work . in conclusion , I can not emphasise enough — separately from the mechanism of this Bill — the importance of have well datum so that when the shared rural network be assess against its objective , we can see what people be experience on the ground . we know that rural roaming will not happen unless we force the company to do it , because they have already show such strong resistance , and the Government have acknowledge that . this Bill would work alongside the share rural network by take step to improve the infrastructure sharing and encourage rural roam wherever possible . People might be with an operator that work at their home , and they could be out and about in their day when their mum fall over at home . she might call an ambulance , but she can not get hold of that person to tell they . that be problematic in the modern age . we need to ensure that people in rural area be connect wherever they go , not just when they be in their home or place of work . I will address a number of issue when respond for the official Opposition , and I take this opportunity to underline the importance of increase access to broadband and the wide need for great connectivity . the Bill of the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) would have two effect , as I understand it . first , it would require mobile network operator to share their network infrastructure for a reasonable price . secondly , it would incentivise operator to allow customer of other company to roam on to their network . as she mention , this be know as rural roaming , and it be similar to what happen when travel abroad . these measure be intend to tackle partial notspot , but it be worth note that the Bill would not address total notspot — area that do not receive any coverage from any mobile network operator . turn to the first of those effect , there be occasional concern about telecom network have infrastructure access . as I understand it , one of the main issue be in area , such as the city of Hull , where there be a monopoly company — in that case , KCOM — or in situation across the rest of the country where Openreach be the monopoly provider . across the country , there have be repeat issue with the use of telecom infrastructure , in particular the repeat digging up of road . there be legitimate question . we be see this issue in my constituency at the moment , with road be dig up . Virgin Media be create absolute chaos across the constituency by dig up the road , and the work it be do to put thing back to how they be be an utter disgrace . do the hon . Gentleman — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 21 June . business without Debate Bus Services Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Public Transport ( Rural Areas ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 2 February . Trident Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) last night be Burns night , and I find myself reflect over a couplet from the bard ' s timeless " a man ' s a Man for a ' that " : " the honest man , tho ' e ' er sae poor , be king o ' man for a ' that . " I open this debate in a spirit of honesty , truth and transparency — a trinity that have be lack in most of my exchange thus far with the Ministry of Defence over mount concern about the UK ' s nuclear Trident programme . the spiral cost of the programme , be they financial or human , demand an earnest response from Ministers — something that have hitherto elude the MOD — but I be hope for candour and honesty today , or in write in the forthcoming week . the economic of the Trident programme be more straightforward . as per the House of Commons Library , the total acquisition expenditure on the four Vanguard - class submarine house the Trident missile be £ 12 . 52 billion , which equate to approximately £ 21 billion in today ' s money . additionally , annual in - service cost be currently estimate at 6 % of the defence budget — base on current plan expenditure , that be another £ 3 billion for 2023 - 24 . far , the cost of the design and manufacture of the new Dreadnought - class submarine be estimate at £ 31 billion , include inflation over the life of the programme . a £ 10 billion contingency have also be set aside , make the current potential total for replacement £ 41 billion . in - service cost be expect to continue at approximately 6 % of defence expenditure . the National Audit Office have raise concern about the impact of the MOD ' s nuclear programme base on the affordability of the Department ' s overall equipment plan , but these astronomical figure continue to be spend . that bring I to the three press concern surround the Trident programme that I will set out for the Minister today , the first of which be the danger of radiation exposure and the issue of nuclear safety in Scotland . secondly , base on those incident , there be grow scepticism about the overall preparedness of the exist Vanguard fleet in the light of its allegedly dangerous and " rot " state , reference by Dominic Cummings , the former senior adviser to the former Prime Minister . thirdly , as a consequence of the nuclear exposure hazard that the UK have impose on the population of Scotland and a lack of transparency concern the programme as a whole , I will set out why the nation of Scotland have much to gain by remove that nuclear arsenal from its water . first and foremost , I would like to provide a factual context to this debate . I be contact by a whistleblower at the Coulport armament depot who tell I that there have be an emergency evacuation at the site due to a radiation leak . I raise this matter directly with the Defence Secretary , who then write to I on 10 January 2023 . in that letter , the Defence Secretary deny that there have be any serious radiation breach at Faslane or Coulport . he write : " I can confirm that the allege radiation incident refer to during defence question in the Commons do not occur . " however , public concern remain about the relocation of staff from build 201 at RNAD Coulport to build 41 . the MOD have fail to confirm the date on which the staff at Coulport building 201 be first inform that they be be move to build 41 . the Defence Secretary also state : " no serious radiation breach have occur at his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde or RNAD Coulport " . however , that response imply there be a threshold for report radiation leak . as I say at the time , the Defence Secretary ' s response raise more question than it answer . it suggest that there be radiation breach , but they fall below an unqualified serious threshold . what be that threshold ? how be it define , and what be the risk from non - serious radiation breach ? in response to a parliamentary write question about serious radiation breach at the Clyde and Coulport port , the Minister acknowledge : " there have be historical event with minor radiological consequence at both his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde and the Royal Naval Armaments Depot ( RNAD ) Coulport . " that reveal 15 record radiation leak at Coulport and a further 43 at Faslane in 2023 alone , although the MOD insist that none be consider serious . surely further detail of each of these event and the risk they do or do not present to the immediate vicinity be necessary . will the Minister commit to provide that information ? will the UK Government continue in their attempt to minimise the number and scale of such event by refer we to obscure code and categorisation to obfuscate risk or by invoke national security as both an excuse and a smokescreen ? the latter be deploy six month ago when the Alba party submit a freedom of information request ask how many convoy there have be each year for the last five year carry material from Atomic Weapons Establishment Aldermaston to Royal Naval Armaments Depot Coulport . section 24 , on national security , and section 26 , on defence , of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 be invoke to withhold that information from Scotland and our people — the very people who be frequently place at risk of exposure to radiation be to be keep in the dark . formulaic test of public information versus national interest be simply not good enough . I would like to pointedly ask the Minister : approximately how much nuclear material have be transport between Aldermaston and Coulport in the last 12 month and in the past five year ? how many convoy be use , and what be the frequency of such transport ? how many worker be sufficiently close to be impact by even low - level nuclear exposure ? we need answer , and the people deserve the most basic of information . even the detail of potentially catastrophic incident that have receive media coverage be routinely deny to right hon . and hon . member of the House and the public alike , on the spurious ground that the Ministry do not comment on operational matter in respect of submarine . it be recently report that a Royal Navy nuclear submarine plunge towards its crush depth due to a concern malfunction of its main depth gauge . it be finally report last November , but the incident take place a year before that . we still have no specific about where it take place , despite my personal request for information from the Ministry . turn to the preparedness of the Vanguard fleet itself , in September 2023 , one of the Vanguard - class submarine return from a patrol of more than six month . defence commentator note that it be double the three - month mission previously complete . additionally , Navy Lookout report that the return submarine seem to be miss exterior tile and be cover in marine growth to an extent that have not be see before . as of this year , the life expectancy of the current Vanguard fleet be repeatedly be extend , despite only three of the four vessel currently be seaworthy . I would like to credit the national newspaper in Scotland for its persistent and thorough reportage of the nuclear predicament in Scotland . if it be the case that submarine be fail in seaworthiness and labour under increase operational pressure , as be indicate by the malfunctioning of vital component , extended period of deployment and miss exterior tile , while radiation leak be be under - report , I ask the Minister in good faith , how be the people of Scotland or right hon . and hon . member to place any trust in this Government ? specifically , how be the dreadnought class to avoid exactly the same fate and , most critically , what additional safeguard be be take to mitigate civilian exposure to nuclear contamination , give this shocking evidence ? give that the chief adviser to an erstwhile Prime Minister have refer to the UK ' s nuclear fleet as a " horror show " , I would hope that the Minister would come through with some degree of information and transparency , and not rely merely on obfuscation . that bring I to my third and final concern . the deficit in trust be one of the many reason why the people of Scotland would benefit from become an independent state in lieu of be hold in this Union against our will . " Bairns not bomb " be one of the galvanise message of the independence movement in the run - up to the 2014 referendum . that slogan embody a persist sentiment against nuclear weapon of mass destruction and their dangerous and corrosive impact on our country and the planet . opinion poll after opinion poll show that the majority of scottish people oppose wmd be host in Scotland . whenever independence be mention to the UK Government , their immediate reaction be to attempt to assert that the scottish economy be well serve as part of the United Kingdom . within the realm of defence manufacturing , such an argument be as far as from reality as possible . in October , the Government sign contract total £ 4 billion to design and manufacture the world ' s most advanced submarine . however much I disagree in principle with the so - call nuclear deterrent , it illustrate perfectly the fact that Scotland receive few of the manufacture job , which be locate in Barrow - in - Furness , Raynesway and Derby . the job , the growth and the capital be yet again direct anywhere but Scotland . meanwhile , the rotting hulk of Dreadnought sub retire in the 1980s have be rust away at Rosyth long than they be in service . the people of Scotland have a precarious future , in which key economic infrastructure such as the Grangemouth oil refinery be threaten with closure . while the current situation be bleak , I would not like to end my speech on a pessimistic note . instead , I look towards the future with hope : a future where an independent Scotland can build on and benefit from its vast renewable energy potential , rather than host nuclear weapon ; a future where there be a safe , feasible and practicable way to ensure that an independent Scotland will begin its life as a nuclear and WMD - free state from day one of independence ; a future where the Government and the people of Scotland be no long keep in the dark about the danger place in their midst by a remote , arrogant London Administration . I be grateful to the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) for initiate this debate . we have have a number of exchange on this matter include , for example , in Defence oral question . the key point be that every day since April 1969 , there have be at least one nuclear - armed Royal Navy submarine at sea , help to keep the United Kingdom safe — the whole of the United Kingdom . in January 1980 , when the House debate the successor programme to Polaris , which lead to Trident — the title of this debate — the Secretary of State for Defence , Lord Pym , boil down the Government ' s position to one essential point . while acknowledge the " horrendous " nature of nuclear weapon and regret that we could not " disinvent " they , he conclude that Britain need to be a nuclear power because of what it would contribute to NATO ' s strategy of deterrence and , through that , to our own national security . essentially , that have be the position of every UK Government since then . the renewal of the nuclear deterrent be approve by an overwhelming majority of 355 vote in this House in 2016 , and it remain this Government ' s position today . in 1980 the debate be frame by the cold war , but in 2024 the threat face our country have multiply and become far more complex . the number of nuclear state have grow , while Putin ' s aggression and intransigence have set back the prospect of nuclear disarmament more broadly . Russia still hold around 6 , 000 warhead , and we face a much more assertive , nuclear - armed China . North Korea remain hellbent on hone its nuclear capability at the expense of the wellbeing of its own people , while Iran have repeatedly violate its international nuclear obligation and have enrich uranium far beyond what it need for civilian purpose . significantly , our competitor be invest in novel nuclear technology , include new warfighte nuclear system , to integrate into their military strategy and doctrine . if we measure the need for an effective nuclear deterrent by the number of nuclear - armed state overtly work against the UK ' s national interest , it be clear that the need to deter have never be great . let we not forget that a credible nuclear capability be about more than merely counter nuclear threat ; it be about deter all of the most extreme threat to our nation . that be why the Government be invest in upgrade our nuclear infrastructure to support the next generation dreadnought - class submarine and replacement warhead . these will be some of the most advanced nuclear system ever build , which send a clear message to any would - be adversary . four dreadnought submarine will replace the Vanguard - class submarine that have maintain our nuclear deterrent since 1992 . they will give we an independent , continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent well into the second half of the century , and progress be on track to deliver the first of the dreadnought submarine into service in the early 2030 . at £ 31 billion , it be correct to say that the estimate cost of the programme be significant , but we can not develop this type of world - lead capability on the cheap , and we must also weigh that against the terrible cost of war , which be what the nuclear deterrent deter from happen . not only will the programme keep we safe ; it be fuel economic growth around the country . the submarine be be build by BAE Systems in Barrow - in - furness . they will be maintain by Babcock in Devonport and on the Clyde . their nuclear reactor be design and build by Rolls - Royce in Derby . our nuclear warhead be design , manufacture and maintain by the Atomic Weapons Establishment in Berkshire . hundred of company form the network of supply chain , and the stationing of our submarine at his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde will ensure that it remain one of the large employment site in Scotland , bring significant benefit to the local economy . directly and indirectly , the nuclear deterrent be responsible for thousand of job in Scotland . in preparation for the delivery of Dreadnought , we be carry out a £ 1 . 4 billion upgrade of our nuclear facility at HMNB Clyde . we be committed to replace our current nuclear warhead and be work with the US to refresh the Trident II d5 missile . [ interruption . ] if the hon . Gentleman wish to intervene , he be more than welcome to do so . I thank the Minister for unexpectedly allow an intervention . he say that he be work with the US , but the reality be that the US control the nuclear deterrent that the UK provide . that be wholly erroneous . yes , we have a very , very close working relationship with the United States . we recently celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Polaris agreement . with the United States we secure the freedom of Europe in the second world war , and with the United States we be continue to secure the freedom of our United Kingdom by deter the most significant threat that we could face . I emphasise that while we continue to invest in our nuclear deterrent , the Government remain fully committed to the long - term goal of a world without nuclear weapon . as a country , we have a strong record on disarmament , have unilaterally reduce our nuclear force significantly from their cold war peak . we now have the small nuclear warhead stockpile of the five nuclear weapon state recognise under the non - proliferation treaty , and we be the only state to have reduce its deterrent capability to a single nuclear weapon system . however , other state have not follow our example , and as we survey the danger face our world today , our assessment be that further unilateral disarmament would only undermine our security and that of our ally . nevertheless , we will continue to see opportunity to advance multilateral disarmament under the framework of the non - proliferation treaty . our nuclear deterrent deter aggression and coercion and help to preserve peace . I thank the Minister for give way a final time . I will not take too much time , but I do express a number of specific concern that relate to the people of Scotland and their concern about host these weapon on their shore . the Minister have make the business case , albeit perhaps not the moral case , for host wmd , but he have not respond to any of my concern about host these weapon in Scotland . will he commit to respond in writing and in detail to the point I have put to he today ? I do respond in detail to the write question the hon . Gentleman table last May about those incident , and the Secretary of State write to he about the allegation that be print . we reject they . the hon . Gentleman ask about the moral case , and I have make the moral case : it be about peace , it be about deterrence . if he do not understand that , let I put on the record the fact that it be the policy of his party to withdraw from NATO , not just to disarm . let we ask ourselves what great folly there could be in the current international situation than for the United Kingdom to withdraw from NATO . how would the Kremlin react ? what would the people of Ukraine think — the people we have do so much to help remain free ? peace be not cheap . that be why we support our deterrent , whose existence have keep we and our ally safe for decade , and we remain fully committed to invest in it . of course , we absolutely hope never to have to use our arsenal , but in our more dangerous world , I strongly agree with Lord Pym when he tell this House , 44 year ago almost to the day , that irrespective of the nature of the threat we face , it be well to have " effective option " than accept defeat . or , as I would put it sincerely , the good way to avoid a war be to deter it from happen in the first place . question put and agree to . House adjourn .