I beg to move , that the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . I feel almost like a Netflix series , in that people can now binge - watch two episode of I in a row . I hope none the less that this matter be worth equal consideration . the Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order set out the yearly amount by which a guarantee minimum pension pot of an individual ' s contract - out occupational pension earn between April 1988 and April 1997 must be increase . occupational pension scheme be require to increase gmp that be earn during that period and be in payment by 3 % for the 2024 - 25 financial year . as this be quite a technical matter , I will provide a little background information on gmp , and what they be and be not . gmp be create to help make occupational pension provision more affordable and more secure . as many member present will be aware , the state pension use to be make up of two part : the flat - rate basic state pension and the earning - relate additional state pension . the flat - rate state pension be fund through the national insurance scheme , and pay the full rate to those with sufficient qualifying year of NI contribution , or pro rata to those with a partial record . the second part of the state pension , the earning - relate additional state pension , be link to a person ' s earning . the national insurance contribution pay by both the employee and their employer give the employee the right to an additional earning - relate state pension . that be design to ensure that as many worker as possible be able to save for their retirement through a work - base pension . however , many employer already offer their worker a company pension through their own scheme , so many people be already build up an occupational pension , and an earning - relate additional state pension in effect replicate that provision . that be consider onerous and potentially unaffordable for both employer and employee . it be see as double provision and over - complicated . in order to simplify the situation , the Government of the day introduce in 1978 the system of contract out , and the provision of guarantee minimum pension , which be the subject of this order . between April 1978 and April 1997 , employer sponsor a salary - relate occupational pension scheme could " contract out " their occupational pension scheme from the earning - relate additional state pension . People who be member of a contract - out scheme be take out of the additional state pension , so as a result both the employer and the pension scheme member pay low - rate national insurance contribution . in return , salary - relate contract - out occupational pension scheme be require to take on the responsibility for pay their member a guarantee minimum pension as a part of their occupational pension from the scheme . the guarantee minimum pension that the member build up in the scheme would be broadly equivalent in value to the additional state pension that they would have receive have they stay in the state system . the majority of employee would also have build up an occupational pension over and above the guarantee minimum pension amount , but the scheme pension could never be low than that guarantee minimum . the crux of the idea be that , rather than pay additional national insurance to the state in order to build up an additional state pension , people could build up a similar amount of occupational pension through a workplace pension scheme . the system run in that way from 1978 to 1997 . have set out the detail , which I accept be complicated , let I turn to the order before we . the order provide a measure of inflation protection for the guarantee minimum pension part of an occasional pension build up between April 1988 and April 1997 . legislation stipulate that , when there have be an increase in the annual level of price as measure the previous September , the order must increase the guarantee minimum pension part of the occupational pension by that percentage or 3 % , whichever be low . as the September 2023 figure be 6 . 7 % , the increase for the financial year 2024 - 25 will be 3 % . the cap of 3 % aim to achieve a balance between provide some measure of protection against inflation for member and , crucially , not increase scheme ' cost beyond what they can generally afford , in order to avoid undermine the viability of some scheme and see they go into the Pension Protection Fund . an obvious question come to mind : what happen when inflation be above 3 % , as it be currently ? Most member who reach the state pension age before 2016 will still get the same inflation protection for their post - 1988 guarantee minimum pension as if they have never be contract out . that be achieve through an uplift that they receive in their additional state pension . for those reach state pension age after April 2016 , who be therefore receive the new state pension , there be transitional arrangement in place , which be particularly beneficial for people who be contract out . these member will therefore still get the 3 % increase from their occupational pension scheme . I recognise that this be perhaps a very complex and technical area , but I be satisfied that the order ensure that the burden place upon scheme be an appropriate one , but also one that ensure that recipient get an increase in their pension that give they some measure of protection against inflation . I therefore commend it to the House .