it be a Labour Government who enshrine in law the right to freedom of expression , and it be a Labour Government who will again uphold freedom of speech and academic freedom on our university campus — not through create a culture war , but through work with academic , student and campaigner to get the legislation right . the Secretary of State write to colleague and make a write statement on 24 July 2024 on her decision to pause further commencement of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 in order to consider option . we have hear concern from minority group and other that that Act and its implementation may have unintended consequence and result in disproportionate burden for university and student union . many be concerned that it could push provider to overlook the safety and wellbeing of minority group over fear of sanction and costly action . I want to provide the House with reassurance that this Government believe that high education must be a space for robust discussion that expose both student and academic to challenge idea . the decision to pause the Act be make precisely because of the importance of get this legislation right . the Secretary of State indicate in her write statement that she would confirm her long - term plan for the Act " as soon as possible " . since then , official and Ministers have engage with a wide range of stakeholder on the future of the Act . this include representative of high education provider and academic , include those from the Committee for Academic Freedom , Academics for Academic Freedom and the London Universities ' Council for Academic Freedom . those official and Ministers will continue to engage with stakeholder before any final decision be make . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech in this uplifting debate to celebrate the success of the Olympics and Paralympics . I congratulate the hon . member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) ; I completely agree with her sentiment about child who be beneath the radar , and I will do everything I can to ensure that they be lift and see . one of my happy family memory be of a trip in 2012 to enjoy the spectacle and the spirit of the London Paralympics in the pool and on the track , a day that surely inspire my own child ' s passion for and dedication to sport . my constituency can lay claim to Britain ' s first ever track and field olympic gold medallist : Charles Bennett , a train driver from Shapwick — otherwise know as the Shapwick Express — win the 1 , 500 metre in 1900 and take two further medal , but be largely forget until his family discover his achievement more than 100 year later . my own journey to this place have be more of a marathon than a sprint . it take four attempt for I to win my seat of Mid Dorset and North Poole , my home for 25 year . that journey also start in 2012 , when Dame Annette Brooke , the then Liberal Democrat MP , invite I to tea and suggest that I put myself forward as a candidate . I explain that I be just a mum of four run a caf é and be completely unqualified for the job , have never be to university , and that " people like I do not become mps " . she simply reply , " that be why you should stand . " without her faith in I I would not be here , and I hope that I can emulate her work — such as her support for park home owner , protect Dorset ' s heathland and fight for well education funding — and that I can achieve just a fraction of the deep respect and admiration that our community still feel for she . I turn to my immediate predecessor , Michael Tomlinson . he be so proud of his legislative role — first as a Government Whip , then as Solicitor General , and most recently as the Minister for Illegal Immigration . I know that he take these responsibility very seriously , but not as seriously as his love for cricket . on a recent trip to the Netherlands , he captain the Lords and Commons parliamentary cricket team against their parliamentary team . my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole be make up of dozen of community , all with their own special character . we be all link through our landscape , particularly the Dorset heathland , which be home to all six of the UK ' s native reptile and to ground - nest bird . it have the most lovely walk , include on Upton heath , know to my social medium follower as " my happy place . " the work undertake by the Dorset Wildlife Trust , RSPB Arne , the National Trust and other to restore our landscape mean that we be one of the only place in the UK to have reverse the decline in nature . eco - tourism be now support economic growth , preserve the way of life in our countryside , town and village . while the beach be in neighbouring constituency , our playground be our river , but I should stress that that be on the water , not in the water . the navigable River Frome be ideal for a Birds of Poole Harbour boat trip to catch sight of a white - tail eagle or a deer on the foreshore , or for a sail up to the Anglo - Saxon walled town of Wareham , with its art deco cinema and pretty pub on the quay , while the small River Piddle be perfect for paddle . the River Stour run down from the north to Wimborne Minster , home to river - base Dreamboats , Canford school ' s row facility and Poole harbour canoe club . I will fight to clean up our river and achieve bathing water status at Eye Bridge , where our teenager already spend their summer day chill out by the water , and where parent like we teach our kid to kayak . I want to support the amazing people who be work to use our natural environment to improve health and wellbee through sport — people like Will Behenna , who found Inclusive Paddleboarding after be paralyse and now help disabled people enjoy the tranquillity and freedom of the water . off the water , Wimborne Minster be name after its ninth - century church and be home to a chain library , a museum with a mummified cat in the wall — apparently for good luck — and an annual folk festival . the Drax and Kingston Lacy estate , and the village that go out towards Holt Heath , provide the chocolate - box image you read about in Thomas Hardy ' s literature . accord to local legend , much of the content for his novel come from listen to the town ' s gossip when he live in Wimborne . return to sport , England see footballe success and heartbreak this summer with the Euros , but in mid - Dorset we be thrilled that Wimborne Town football club be promote to the southern league premier south , and that the neighbour afc Bournemouth open its world - class training facility in Bearwood in my constituency , guarantee a pipeline of brilliant future Dorset footballer . mind you , the pedigree be already there , as two of the England under - 23 lady ' team come through Broadstone middle school as classmate of my own child . give that olympic trampolinist Izzy Songhurst from Broadstone , champion go - karter and win sailor , among other , grow up in our constituency , I want to pay particular tribute to the volunteer coach who make it possible for our child to have these opportunity , as well as to charity such as Dorset Community Foundation , which help our athlete compete at the high level or simply let child take part in what they love . every child must be able to thrive , but our current education system stop that happen for so many young people . we have a curriculum that crush creativity , a SEND system that condemn child to fail , and a grip so tight on ofsted measure that teacher do not have the space to truly share the joy of learn . some of our child face an even great battle , include child in care , young carer , child who suffer bereavement , and those with disability or life - limit condition . we need those child to thrive too , and thank to charity such as Become , MYTIME Young Carers , Mosaic , Diverse Abilities and Julia ' s House child ' s hospice , so many of they do . but with council face bankruptcy and unable to deliver much in non - statutory service , and with public donation down due to the cost of living , they need action from the Government to secure proper funding . as an MP , my voice be my power , and I will use it to fight for they , and for all who strive to improve the life of those who feel voiceless . I also want to send a message to people in my community who feel powerless , and to young people who be worried about the future : if you want something badly enough , keep try . it be possible , whatever your background , your gender and your struggle . like I , you might take the long route , but like my famous country " mum walk " , the long one be where you stumble across the most interesting place and create last memory . like many people , I have a bucket list . it have just three thing on it : to run the London marathon , to earn a degree , and to represent my community as a Member of Parliament . well , Dad , I finally achieve one of they . although he be not here in the Chamber today — he be watch at home — I hope he be proud . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I still pinch myself about be in this place . I be just a mum with four fabulous kid — molly , Abbi , Isaac and George — and my long - suffer husband Paul . I have an incredible team of volunteer who keep believe in I , and a community who have put their trust in I to speak up for they . I want everyone live in Mid Dorset and North Pole , from Shitterton to Happy Bottom — yes , they be real place — and from Gaunt ' s Common to Canford Heath , to know that they have a champion in I , and to know that I be committed to make the place that we all call home the good they can be .