prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . Nickie Aiken Chris Green Steven Baker Karen Bradley Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Lisa Cameron James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Feryal Clark Therese Coffey Mims davy Samantha Dixon Angela Eagle Chris Elmore Vicky Ford Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Andrew Gwynne Luke Hall Harriet Harman Rebecca Harris John Healey Nigel Huddleston Emma Lewell - Buck Holly Lynch Seema Malhotra Scott Mann Kerry McCarthy Huw Merriman Gagan Mohindra Taiwo Owatemi Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Laurence Robertson Matt Rodda Justin Tomlinson Catherine West Aaron Bell Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 0 , Noes 37 . question accordingly negative . licensing Hours Extensions Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this be the first time , but I sincerely hope not the last time , that I have propose legislation in this House that have not only enjoy strong cross - party support throughout all stage of its passage , but strong support outside this place . there have not be a single objection to the Bill from the police , local authority , the public or , which be to be expect , the hospitality industry . in fact , the industry have be ask for this small legislative change for some time now , and it have ask for it because it make sense . I want to apologise in advance that this speech be a little dull and technical , but it be important that the detail of what I be propose be make clear to the House , a point I discuss at length with the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who I be sorry be not with we in his usual Friday slot today . love for our pub be strong across all our constituency . if there be one thing guarantee to unite we , it be sport and royal event . we tend to gather for these event in our local pub , because they be the beat heart of our community . as hon . member will know , such event do not always take place when our pub and hospitality venue be open , which be why the Licensing Act 2003 make two provision for licence extension . first , individual license premise can apply to their local authority for a temporary event notice . each application cost £ 21 and take a minimum of five work day to be approve , although it often take long . the provision be not design for scenario in which many venue across the country wish to extend their licensing hour at short notice and at the same time , so a second provision , under section 172 of the 2003 Act , enable license extension for " an occasion of exceptional international , national , or local significance " . that allow the Government to make a relaxation order applicable to all premise in England and Wales , specify the date and time of the relaxation , which can not exceed four day . such order , which be make under section 197 of the 2003 Act , be subject to the affirmative procedure and need approval from both Houses of Parliament . good practice be for the Home Secretary to complete a public consultation , and then for both Houses to debate the order , which can take up to six month to implement . as mention on Second Reading , the process have be use for the coronation of his Majesty the King , the 90th birthday and platinum jubilee of her late Majesty , the 2011 and 2018 royal wedding , the 2014 FIFA World cup , and the Euro 2020 final in 2021 . last summer , our whole country be immensely proud of our lioness reach the woman ' s World cup final . as hon . member will recall , we find out only four day before the match that our Lionesses have make the final . it be take place on a Sunday in Sydney , and there be an 11 - hour time difference . the match kick off at 11 am , with many venue unable to serve alcohol until 11 am or 12 noon . there be no time leave for they to apply to their local authority for a temporary event notice and , because Parliament be in recess , there be no mechanism for the Government to issue an extension . our community miss out on all the pre - match excitement and much - need extra revenue . clause 1 will allow the Home Secretary or Ministers to make an extension order in similar situation without go through the costly , overly bureaucratic , time - consume and restrictive process that exist now . clause 2 simply state that the Bill will come into force on the day it gain Royal Assent , and will extend to England and Wales only . the Bill do not propose a change to the circumstance with which discretion may be exercise by the Home Secretary . the provision in section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 , which relate to the length , purpose and consultation requirement of any relaxation order , will remain intact . this be a Bill to simplify the parliamentary process , not to change the substance of the Licensing Act ' s provision . use the negative procedure instead of the affirmative procedure do not remove parliamentarian ' voice on application . as member will know , the majority of statutory instrument be lay before Parliament under the negative procedure , and there be a process for object to they or have they annul , both in this place and in the other place . next week , the Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA European Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2021 be due for debate . like all previous extension order of this kind , it be very likely that it will pass through both Houses unoppose . consider the many problem that our constituent and the country be face right now , it be a waste of precious parliamentary time to debate an uncontentious order that have such cross - party and public support . I recall spend many hour as a Home Office Minister take through statutory instrument for exactly this kind of occasion , even though nobody oppose they and everybody could see that they be very good , particularly for the hospitality industry . I declare an interest : my brother be a pub landlord and my father be before he , so I know how much such order matter . I fully support the hon . Lady ' s Bill . do she agree that these event be exactly the kind of time when we need to get together in the great british pub ? I thank the right hon . member for that intervention , and I hope that her family welcome the Bill as well . like much of our hospitality industry through covid , pub be absolutely batter . while this Bill be small and will not apply all the time , when it do apply , the revenue that our local hospitality venue and pub will gain from it will make a huge difference to they . even with my Bill , the Government fully intend to continue to plan ahead so that , wherever possible , license hour extension order can be bring forward with sufficient time for public consultation and notice , as they have be for the upcoming Euros licensing order next week . this Bill have receive such support because it be straightforward and sensible . I be sure that we all look forward to join our constituent down one of our brilliant local in celebrate the next national , sporting or royal event . I commend the Bill to the House . I congratulate the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) on the success of her private Member ' s Bill , and I be delighted to join colleague from across the House in speak in favour of its provision . the United Kingdom be a nation that like to support our national team and our choose football team . for any sporting or ceremonial event , whether the Olympics , the Paralympics , the football World cup , the Euros , the Ashes , coronation or royal wedding — I could go on — when our team , our sportspeople and our royalty be do well , we want to support they . and where well to support they and celebrate than in our local pub or sport or social club ? these be venue where we want to share our joy and woe , often with like - minded people . that be why this Bill to provide a blanket extension of licensing hour make sense — to allow people to gather to mark an occasion of exceptional international , national or local significance . my hon . friend be absolutely right about moment of celebration in pub . she represent the Cities of London and Westminster , and I expect that she have the most pub in any single constituency . while it may be unfair for she to single out just one , I wonder whether there be a particular sporting occasion , or other occasion of joy , where she have — certainly — enjoy that in a pub locally . there have actually be far too many to be able to name they . as my right hon . Friend say , there be so many amazing venue in my constituency . I think that , at my last count , we have 13 , 000 license premise in Westminster alone , and as a former licensing chair of Westminster Council , the large licensing authority in the country , I can say with some authority that we have amazing license premise here . as the hon . member for South Shields say , the alternative to this Bill be to go with temporary event notice , which be use for individual business look to extend their hour . I know , from my experience as a licensing chair , that those be a bureaucratic nightmare for licensing authority — especially for a city centre such as Westminster , central Manchester , Birmingham or wherever — and the £ 21 charge never match the cost of the administration of those temporary event notice . this Bill will do away with that time - consume bureaucracy . in practice , the blanket extension order go unopposed , and the public be often in favour of propose licensing hour extension . some 85 % of respondent to the consultation be in favour of an extension for this year ' s Euros , and 77 % be in favour of one during the King ' s coronation . another important point to make be that there be a massive , vital economic benefit from this Bill . pub and late - night venue in my constituency employ more than 22 , 000 people and turn over £ 1 billion each year ; it be the no . 1 constituency for turnover , and economic value , from the hospitality industry in the UK . that be just in central London , but pub and other venue play a vital role in the local economy of every part of the United Kingdom . the Bill will support they . we know the hospitality industry have have a tough time over the past five year . while I welcome make the process to extend opening hour easier , it be important to remember that such extension will see an increase in the consumption of alcohol . sadly , often , that will result in an increase in antisocial behaviour and disturbance for resident . the extension order for the 2020 Euros final allow for an extra 45 minute of serve time . however , for the 2024 Euros , the Government consultation propose extend licensing hour by two hour , mean many pub will close at 1 am . I be sure everyone in the House agree that we do not want to see a repeat of what happen during the 2020 Euros , when Trafalgar Square , in my constituency , be the scene of some very unruly behaviour , include excess drinking and reveller climb on building and bus . it be an absolute nightmare . I be aware of resident ' concern about the current licensing application for the fanzone for this year ' s Champions League final , which will allow up to 20 , 000 people to gather in Trafalgar Square and a further 30 , 000 in Victoria Embankment Gardens . I thank the hon . member for her fulsome support for my Bill . I stress to she and to the House that there will be continue consultation with the police and local authority , even when the regulation in the Bill be in play . we be simply change the parliamentary process , not the process that happen outside this place . I want to give she that assurance . I absolutely accept that point . I just want to take the opportunity to ensure we do not forget that , in my constituency in central London , we have a massive and vital hospitality industry , which employ ten of thousand of people , but we also have resident live cheek by jowl with those premise , many of they in social housing . I visit a social housing block in Mayfair last week . People do not expect to see social housing in place like that , but we have social housing in Mayfair , Belgravia , Soho and Marylebone , and it be important we do not forget that . the UK should take pride in host internationally renowne competition , such as the Euros and the Champions League final , and make provision for those seek to celebrate they . I understand why the Government and the Greater London Authority want to have fanzone , but I be also aware that local councillor , business and resident in the St James ' s ward object to the licensing application for the fanzone on the basis that the venue and location be wholly unsuitable . local resident be particularly sad because they feel that there have be a lack of consultation in the process . I note what the hon . member for South Shields say about the Bill be about the parliamentary process , which be why I support it . in this day and age , it be ridiculous that we have have to have the House of Commons and the other place agree to extend licensing hour for an hour , or whatever , just for one day , so I appreciate and support the change in the Bill . however , we have to remember the knock - on effect of extended licensing on the police and local council . when the licensing hour be extend for the 2020 Euros , we see huge amount of waste and litter across the west end . Westminster City Council collect 20 tonne of waste over 19 hour during and after the historic England versus Italy final , with the use of 20 vehicle . as ever , I take my hat off to the cleansing service of Westminster City Council : they deliver every time we have a major celebration or protest . they clean up and people would never think anything have happen . however , such event put a strain on local authority spending , particularly in Westminster , where we be not provide with extra Government funding to undertake the cleansing after those special event . again , I know that the Metropolitan police spend a lot of time and resource put in extra police officer to police these event . I note what the hon . member for South Shields say . it be crucial that police and local authority be provide with the guidance and support they need during national celebration and moment of national significance when license hour be extend . for my long - term goal , we need to make sure that resident live close to hospitality venue and those within licensed hour be consider in any extension . I absolutely accept that the consultation system be not change under the Bill , which I welcome . I welcome the Bill , which I see as a move to simplify the process of extend licensing hour within the parliamentary process when need . I look forward to see the Bill complete its journey through this and the other place . it be a pleasure to stand in support of the Bill on Third Reading . I commend and congratulate the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , who have navigate this important Bill , which , though small , will have a significant impact on the wellness and joy of people throughout England and Wales . she come into the House in a by - election in 2013 and have always make a positive impact . she have , of course , be diligent in her constituency work , but I hope she will be toast in every pub the next time a licence be use in the way introduce by this change in law . the Licensing Act 2003 be important legislation . the reason for that , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) set out , be that while we want hospitality to thrive in many way , for people live very near a pub or other venue , those venue can have a big impact on their life . that be why the process that be go through be important . I do not know the rationale for decide , more than 20 year ago , that it be important to make this particular legislation via the affirmative resolution procedure , but it be sensible and pragmatic streamlining to switch to the negative resolution procedure . this simple legislative change will not make bureaucracy a thing of the past ; it be important that the appropriate procedure go through . however , we often think about how Parliament need to be in touch with the challenge that people have . it may not be the great challenge in the world that a pub can not open long for a particular event , but when we try to explain to people that the reason such a change can not be make be that Parliament be not sit because it be have a summer break , there be an element of , " let ' s look at that again . " that be why the hon . member for South Shields be wise to pick up and work with the Government on this modest change . on the negative resolution procedure more broadly , within Parliament , and in particular the other House , I would say there have be an anti - negative resolution revolution in the passing of secondary legislation . about 80 % of our regulation be make through the negative route . there will be a variety of reason as to why it be unpopular for certain aspect , partly because , if people object to those statutory instrument , although there be quite a systematic process , it be not always easy to get a particular vote on it , particularly in this House . one thing it have do be to clog up a lot of parliamentary activity , with more and more time be spend on modest piece of legislation that really do not need further consideration , apart from the wisdom of discussion or debate that could be have outside of what be quite a formal parliamentary process . that be why I think this matter . I appreciate that my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster might not want to single one pub out in her constituency . for what it be worth , I live in her constituency when I be carry out my parliamentary duty , and I go to the White Swan on Vauxhall Bridge Road to watch sport . I think it be really good . it have a fantastic TikTok account . Don ' t worry , I be not expect a free Guinness — I would not abuse my position in that way . I have hope to be have moment of joy this Sunday , with Liverpool win the Premier League . sadly , that be not go to be the case , and I expect we will end up third , but I be go to a Liverpool fan ' pub in London in the afternoon with some friend . it be that sense of community and of come together that really matter . Covid have have so many impact on our country : not just the huge amount of investment that be put in , which we be now pay for across the UK , but what it do to community and the anxious generation we now have of people who interact solely on something like this phone — I be use it to look at the legislation today . for I , what be critical be not just drown our sorrow by go to a pub , but that sense of occasion . I remember the joy of some of the sporting event I have be lucky enough to go to in person . that sort of joy can be replicate , and it need not necessarily be in a pub ; it can be in a community hall or at other sort of temporary event . however , it be vital , not only for economic reason , but for genuine societal reason , that we make it as straightforward as possible for Parliament to allow these thing to happen . while we still have a moderate amount of regulation in recognise what licensing condition may apply and what concern local resident or business may have , I come back to my original point : this simple change , mean that it do not matter whether Parliament be sit , be the key element of this legislation . I be go to be shameless and name a few more pub in my constituency . I forget to do so in discuss previous bit of legislation . I even serve on the hon . member for South Shields ' Bill Committee and do not do it . I can not name they all , but I have be to every single pub in my constituency ; that be the reason I win the beer parliamentarian of the year award over a decade ago , and still have the mug to prove it — though I can assure you , Mr Deputy Speaker , there be no beer in the Chamber today . but who know ? we might crack on over in the Strangers bar if it be open later , to toast the hon . Lady ' s success in get the Bill through this House . we undoubtedly have a lot of event in Europe come up , but it be important to recognise our international community here in this country and people ' s desire not only to watch sport here , of course , but to watch sporting event with their home team in different part of the world . I have well not get into too much trouble by name load of pub , but — my right hon . friend be make a very excellent speech . she ask I for my favourite watering hole in my constituency . I think it be only fair , surely , that she name one pub that she go to . of course there be the Felixstowe Conservative Club , which be very good in that regard , but I must admit that when I go to watch sport , I have be to the Douglas Bader in Martlesham Heath and I love go to the Anchor in Woodbridge . my first home be in a village call Westleton , where I use to go to the White Horse Inn a lot . there be just so many . not all of they show football , and I must do well in ensure that I get down to many more pub in Felixstowe , where that do seem to happen . however , I will continue to champion and go around pub , and I now have a great excuse , with the hon . member for South Shields ' Bill , to explain why Parliament be go to make life for our hospitality sector a lot easy . we have a great brewery and pub chain call Adnams in Southwold in my constituency . adnam still own a lot of pub , some manage , some tenant , and I hope it will take full advantage of this great opportunity . so without far ado , I be really pleased to be here on a Friday to support this legislation , I be sure the Lords will toast it as well , and I look forward to share a glass or two in the Strangers bar later today . I be afraid the Strangers Bar be closed . I be sorry to bring such bad news , but I think the House of Lords bar may be open — you never know . I be a former president of the all - party parliamentary group on beer , so I do not think we could have a more appropriate Chair for this particular debate . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) for introduce this important Bill and for all her commendable work on it so far . I be sure that pub up and down the country will be grateful for her work on the Bill if it pass . I also pay tribute to all member who have contribute today and at other stage , particularly the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , as well as the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , whose constituency have some of the good pub in London , of which she should be proud . anyone here on a Friday should take a stroll through the City of London , because it be beautiful and there be some incredible gem in its tiny street . tourist often just wander around look for something , and they will most likely come across those wonderful pub . I absolutely recognise the issue that the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster highlight about the potential impact on resident of the measure . in inner - London borough , as she say , pub be often close to residential area . however , as she will know , have spend time on license committee , local authority and police spend a lot of time on ensure that licence come with condition in order to prevent such issue . I will acknowledge some of the wonderful pub in my Enfield North constituency , but before I do , let I say that it have be a pleasure to see the Bill pass through this House with cross - party support . as we have hear , the Bill amend section 197 of the Licensing Act 2003 , grant our hospitality sector more freedom to extend licensing hour with short notice , and give the Government of the day the ability to respond to the need of the industry . that would allow our community to celebrate event of national significance in hospitality venue for long , provide a welcome boost to business and fan . as we have hear , when our Lionesses progress in Australia and New Zealand to reach England ' s first World cup final since 1966 , there be a miss opportunity at home , where progress stall . pub , bar and restaurant could open from 10 am on the day of the final , but could not serve customer until 11 . licensing hour be not extend , despite request , because Parliament be in recess , so it be too late . business miss the opportunity to serve customer early , and supporter be deny the chance to get behind their team . with England and Scotland set for the european championship , another busy summer of sport will provide a welcome boost to our hospitality sector , which have suffer so much over the past few year . if football be to come home again this summer , we must ensure that our hospitality sector be ready to embrace it . I know that the Bill will not solve all the problem face the industry , but it will provide the sector with the welcome boost that it be ask for . from speak to those at the many pub in my Enfield North constituency , include the Plough , the wonder and the Cricketers — where I go every Sunday with my child — I know that they support the proposal in the Bill . let we be clear : our hospitality sector bring a huge boost to the UK economy . in 2022 alone , it generate £ 54 billion in tax receipt and £ 7 billion - worth of business investment . clearly , what benefit our pub benefit local community , but the impact go much far : a staggering 42 % of tourist want to visit a pub when visit the UK . they be a vital part of our community , high street and household . I know that many member present today will share that view , yet we be currently deny pub , bar and restaurant the full opportunity to benefit . it be clearly an opportunity , so for the reason set out today , the Bill should progress . the negative resolution procedure would allow an order to be debate if successfully request by any parliamentarian , and the option of consultation would be retain , mean that concern will be consider , so relative safeguard be in place . it be common sense that the Bill should proceed , and I be delighted to support it and my colleague , my hon . friend the Member for South Shields , today . I start by congratulate the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) on bring forward this private Member ' s Bill , and for the charm and expertise with which she have pilot it through the House . this be probably the short Bill I have ever be involve with as a Minister ; I think the long one be the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which run to about 220 clause and several hundred page . this Bill be a model of pith and conciseness — if only every Bill be as simple . I congratulate the hon . Lady on marshal both side of the House behind her Bill , and I thank the member who have speak today . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , for her support ; my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for talk about the pub in her constituency , here in the heart of London , and for bring to bear her expertise as a former chair of licensing at Westminster City Council ; and , of course , my right hon . friend the incomparable Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , who bring to bear her very extensive experience in this area that she have diligently amass over many year , across the length and breadth of the kingdom . there be few colleague with great or deep expertise than my right hon . friend when it come to visit pub , which I intend as a profound compliment . as we have hear , this Bill amend section 172 of the Licensing Act , which already make provision for the Secretary of State to make order relax licensing hour in England and Wales on occasion of exceptional international , national , or even local significance . under that definition — international , national and local significance — tomorrow be the play - off final at Wembley between Oxford United and Bolton Wanderers . would that qualify under the change in the Bill , and since the play - off be tomorrow , can the Minister make sure that all part of the Bill have complete their passage by that time ? my hon . friend will have notice that the second and final clause of the Bill state that the Act will come into force on the day on which it be pass , but of course it have to complete its passage through the other place first , so unfortunately , I do not think that play - off final will benefit from these provision . whether a play - off final between such auspicious team as Bolton Wanderers and Oxford United would qualify as an event under this Bill would be for the Home Secretary of the day to determine . in all seriousness , although the parliamentary mechanism be be change from the affirmative resolution procedure to the negative resolution procedure , the underlying criterion be not change ; I do not think we would want to usher in a wholesale change of license hour through this mechanism . the threshold be quite high and it be use fairly rarely , so I would like to temper expectation . we do not expect the provision to be use indiscriminately , although that in no way detract from the importance of the game take place at Wembley — obviously I wish both team the good of luck . these order will benefit business , as we have hear , allow they to stay open for long when important event be take place . as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster say , it be much easy to use blanket licensing extension than to require pub to go through the onerous , expensive and tedious process of apply for a temporary event notice from their local authority . this approach be much well . to give a flavour of the kind of event that might qualify for these provision , they might include thing such as his Majesty the King ' s coronation last year , her late Majesty the Queen ' s 90th birthday and her platinum jubilee , the royal wedding in 2018 and 2011 , and the Euros final in 2020 . if anyone be wonder whether the Bill will apply to future England appearance in final , let I say that , while that might be more in hope than expectation , we should none the less legislate in hope . we have already hear member set out the reason why we should make this change , which have command widespread support . we have hear that such game can often arise at relatively short notice — for example , England reach the final , which have be refer to . when Parliament be not sit , it be obviously not possible to use the affirmative resolution procedure , although let I be clear : even with the negative resolution procedure , scrutiny be possible . where necessary , it be possible to pray against resolution make under the negative procedure , so if a member feel strongly , they can obviously pray against the instrument in the normal way . as Minister for crime and policing , I be obviously aware of how important it be to consult the police regularly and make sure that they be happy that , where we extend licensing hour , that will not cause any undue problem with public order . it be important that the Home Secretary of the day consult the police appropriately to make sure that risk be consider , but I be sure that will not stop the power be use when appropriate . as I have say , the power in section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 have be use relatively sparingly , and that approach be not go to change . the test be an event of exceptional significance , which impose quite a high bar . to make just one final point , for the avoidance of doubt , this instrument apply only in England and Wales , because it amend the Licensing Act 2003 , which apply only to England and Wales . licensing be devolve in Scotland and Northern Ireland , which I assume explain why there be no member from either Scotland or Northern Ireland join we this morning to hear about all the pub in the constituency of the various member who have speak — in which context , I should commend the pub in Croydon South , such as the Fox in Coulsdon and the Wattenden arm up by Kenley airfield . [ interruption . ] of course , there be a member from Scotland sit right behind I , who I do not notice . the Minister be make an excellent speech . I , too , give my wholehearte support to the Bill , on behalf of pub across Scotland and in my constituency . it might not have a direct impact there , but we recognise its importance right across the United Kingdom and the important message it send , so I thank the Minister — and remind he that I be still from Scotland . I offer my abject and heartfelt apology for overlook my hon . friend , who be sit right behind I . she be Scotland ' s only voice in Parliament today , and Scotland be all the well off for her presence here — particularly on this side of the House , where she belong , and where she be very welcome and hold in high regard and great affection . there be many Bills to get through today , and I do not wish to test the patience of the House or colleague by speak for too long . I fear that the most popular word in any speech I give be the word " and finally , " so — and finally I thank once again the hon . member for South Shields , who have pilot the Bill through Commons , and those who have speak in support of it and serve on the Bill Committee . this straightforward and simple measure will free up valuable parliamentary time , as we hear early , and allow the Government to respond in an agile way in what I hope be the likely event that team from the home nation make progress in various international sporting event , merit an extension to the licensing hour of this nation ' s fine pub . I commend the Bill to the House . as I say on Second Reading , I get my love of the pub from my dad , who know a good pint when he see one , and from my mam , whose footstep I follow in as an excellent barmaid . People who work in this industry deserve our support , and our community deserve every opportunity they can get to come together for important event . I give special thank to the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who have long champion our capital ' s pub and nightlife , and to the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , who serve on the Bill Committee . I also wish that my local would all toast I , but as she be here on Second Reading , when I list all the crack local pub in South Shields , she will know that that would result in a very sore head the next day . I have many more people to thank : the Minister , the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , Home Office official , the Public Bill Office , in particular Anne - Marie Griffiths , and my invaluable senior researcher , Rebecca Natton . I also thank the british Beer and Pub Association , the Night Time Industries Association , along with its chair and hospitality champion Sacha Lord , and on the Front Bench my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) . finally , I wish to say a big " cheer " to the Government for support my Bill , and in commend it to the House , I say to the Minister , as I say to his colleague the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department ( Laura Farris ) , that I definitely owe he , and a lot more people , a drink . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time , and pass . cheer to you , Emma Lewell - Buck . pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 2 - Extent and Commencement I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 22 , leave out from " force " to end of line 23 and insert — " at the end of the period of four month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this amendment would bring the provision of the bill which extend to England and Wales and Scotland , and section 1 ( 5 ) which extend to England and Wales and Scotland and Northern Ireland , into force four month after Royal Assent . with this , it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 4 , page 2 , line 1 , leave out from " force " to end of line 2 and insert — " at the end of the period of four month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this amendment would bring the provision of the bill which extend only to Northern Ireland into force four month after royal assent . amendment 2 , page 2 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 5 , page 2 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 4 . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 10 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 10 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 4 . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) and to the Government and the Department for Work and Pensions . I have table these amendment because , as have be see with other Bills to which we have give Third Reading , they concern the timing of when an Act come into effect . I be conscious that there be a number of situation where more work need to be do to get some of the detail and guidance , and other element like that . regrettably , for a variety of piece of legislation , wait for the Secretary of State to create regulation have somewhat delay the introduction after Royal Assent of the effect of the Act that so many people have work hard to achieve . I be not in any way try to detract from the regulator or from the Department for Work and Pensions , of which I be proud to be the Secretary of State , but I be particularly conscious about the uncertainty of the timing of a general election . of course there be still procedure that can be do to some extent , but those who have hold ministerial office will know some of the challenge that take place in term of process , procedure , and different Cabinet committee . put simply — this be why I be grateful to my hon . friend and to the Government for listen to my concern — the amendment would remove extra step of process . that matter because I be keen to see the Bill enact . I be not seek in any way to hold it up . I want certainty about make it happen , and I be concern about the uncertainty of timing . I be careful to check that the amendment would not affect the legislative consent motion that have already pass the Northern Ireland Assembly . if there be any way that they do , I have not be make aware of that — I have be give the opposite assurance . I be keen to ensure that the United Kingdom move together . we have two formally separate system . these be transfer power — they have always be power for the Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly to deal with — but I know that the Executive and the Assembly have be keen , particularly in social security matter , for the United Kingdom to proceed in step so that we do not give different treatment to the same thing , especially when we all pay the same tax and we all tend to have the same service provider . after careful consideration , I want to ensure that the Bill become law in a timely fashion , without the need for further process , and that be why I will be press my amendment . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) for table her amendment and for discuss they with I over the last few day . we have work to try to ensure that the good outcome be find . she make the point that when there be a general election come , albeit that that be an unusual circumstance — one hope that it will arise only every five year — it throw thing into doubt . the last thing we would want be for the Bill to get Royal Assent and then , for some reason — probably the election — not come into force . I understand where she be come from on that . I also thank the Minister and the Government for discuss these issue and come to an agreement to accept the amendment . I be certainly very happy to accept they . there be no need for I to drag proceeding out any far at this point . I thank all concerned for their work . I rise just to seek some reassurance on the amendment . I be not at all against they in principle — when I read they on the amendment paper , I could understand what the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) be attempt to do and exactly why — but it strike I that they rather run roughshod over establish procedure , particularly with respect to the devolved Administrations , by give quite a strict timetable . I wonder whether the Minister could reassure the House . although it be not the case here , the change make by Bills can often be quite complex and have to be make appropriately , and put a very hard stop in a Bill , regardless of context , set rather a difficult precedent . although I do not object to what the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal be try to do , I be slightly surprise by the bulldozer approach that the amendment create . in this circumstance it be manageable , but it might not be quite so manageable in other , more complex circumstance . I suppose I seek some reassurance from the Minister about the precedent that the amendment will set . how wide will it go ? be we go to start include in Bills a precise timetable for when they will be put into effect , with a hard stop , regardless of their complexity ? I understand that the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) want his Bill — we all want this to be do quickly — but there be some precedent be create here that would be slightly worrying if they be to extend more widely . I wonder whether the Minister might give we some thought and insight in that respect . I want to make it clear that the opposition do not object to the Bill at all , but I be quite surprised by the innovative way in which the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal have seek to pursue her desire to get this thing do quickly . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) for her consider amendment , and for the reason argument behind they . I know that she have be engage extensively with our excellent official at the DWP , whom she know extremely well . the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) ask about innovation . my right hon . friend be incredibly innovative , and I be not surprised that that be attract attention . let I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for the attentive way in which he have listen to all this . as for the question of precedent , it be not unusual for Bills to have set commencement date when we be sure that they can be commence on the date in question . I hope that that reassure the hon . Lady . I think we can all agree that we want the provision in the Bill to be commence with minimal delay . they be important , and will provide much - need financial support up to six month early than be currently the case for those who have receive the devastating news that they have a terminal illness . my right hon . friend be clearly mindful of that follow her own experience in the DWP , and it be what be drive these change . they build on the work that the Department begin in 2022 , under her formidable and inspiring leadership . she will be only too well aware of the importance that the Department have place on do all that it can to help people at these difficult time . the amendment be intend to ensure that the Bill specify the point at which the provision will come into force . they provide for this to be a period of four month after the Bill have receive Royal Assent . put the commencement date on the face of the Bill would mean that the Secretary of State ' s power to make regulation commence the provision , or transitional or save provision , would no long be necessary , and amendment 2 , 3 , 5 and 6 seek to remove all those provision . similar amendment be make to the provision cover Northern Ireland , and at this point it may be prudent to remind the House that the Northern Ireland Assembly have already provide a legislative consent order for the Bill as draft . I hope that that reassure my right hon . friend . when the Bill be draft towards the end of last year , it be unclear to the Department how quickly the Pension Protection Fund would be able to implement the change . the decision to commence they via a commencement order give the Department the flexibility to ensure that the fund be in a position to implement the new condition at commencement , and that the correspond change to the Financial Assistance Scheme Regulations 2005 could be make at the same time . in Committee , the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) , be very clear about commencement , say : " I can confirm today that the intention be for that to happen as soon as practicable after Royal Assent . I see no reason for delay or obfuscation . " – – [ Official Report , Pensions ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 24 April 2024 ; c . 10 . ] hopefully we be all agree , and can all be assure that we have absolutely no intention of create any unnecessary delay in enact these vital measure , which will make a massive difference to people at the most difficult time in their life , and , indeed , to their family , bring real comfort . at the end of Committee stage on 24 April , official from the Department seek further clarification from the Pension Protection Fund on how quickly it could implement the change . its response be very positive , and I want to put on record our appreciation for the work it have be undertake . it have confirm that its internal team have be work towards have everything ready by the beginning of July , the early date on which the Bill could potentially have receive Royal Assent . I therefore confirm to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal that DWP official have be in touch with their counterpart in the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland , who have helpfully confirm that they do not envisage any problem with commence the relevant Northern Ireland provision in a timely manner to retain parity across the United Kingdom . notwithstanding the point make by the hon . member for Wallasey , and with that in mind , I see no reason why the Department can not meet the new requirement that the amendment will impose , and I have recommend that the Government do not oppose they . I thank my right hon . friend for raise her concern and bring they to the House in the manner and the style that she do . amendment 1 agree to . amendment make : 4 , page 2 , line 1 , leave out from " force " to end of line 2 and insert — " at the end of the period of four month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this amendment would bring the provision of the bill which extend only to Northern Ireland into force four month after royal assent . amendment 2 , page 2 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 5 , page 2 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 4 . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 10 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 10 ) — ( Dr Coffey . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 4 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be pleased that the Bill ' s passage through the House have be relatively smooth , so I thank the Government and indeed the Opposition for their support . although the Bill ' s scope be narrow , it will provide financial assurance to those who have receive the devastating diagnosis of a terminal illness and who have also see the sponsor of their pension scheme become insolvent . the Bill will do that by amend the definition of the word " terminally ill " . when someone receive the awful news that they may have only month to live , it be only right that financial problem should be the least of their worry . the loss of their rightful pension payment should not mean that they must live out their remain time constrain by their financial circumstance . the Bill aim to address that problem directly . for wide context , the Bill focus on the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme . the Pension Protection Fund , establish by the Pensions Act 2004 , pay compensation to individual when the sponsor of their define - benefit scheme — usually their employer — become insolvent and lack the necessary asset to pay those pension to the level that the Pension Protection Fund ordinarily would . that be for case when such insolvency take place on or after 6 April 2005 . the financial assistance scheme apply to individual whose pension scheme be unable to meet their pension liability in full when those scheme start to wind up between 1 January 1997 and 5 April 2005 . the Bill concern the compensation payment make to people diagnose with a terminal illness from those scheme . the Pension Protection Fund provide a one - off lump sum payment to those who receive such a diagnosis , while the financial assistance scheme will begin to make payment to someone at any age . the issue that the Bill seek to address be the definition of a terminal illness . the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme both use the same legal definition of terminal illness , which that be that " a person be ' terminally ill ' at any time if at that time the person suffer from a progressive disease and the person ' s death in consequence of that disease can reasonably be expect within 6 month . " the same definition be use by the Department for Work and Pensions for the purpose of calculate benefit , but that be reform in the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 , where the six - month period include in the definition of " terminally ill " be extend to 12 month . the change in definition for these two pension scheme seem only logical . that would keep the definition consistent with make social security payment . it be difficult to say how many people will benefit from the Bill , and in reality we do not really want people to benefit as that would mean that the sponsor of their pension fund have become insolvent , which we do not want to see . however , where that be the case , this legislation will benefit terminally ill people . the Bill ' s scope be technically limit to the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme , but I hope it will encourage any workplace pension that do not have provision for terminal illness , where the member have a life expectancy of 12 month or less , to consider put such a scheme into place . depend on the scheme ' s rule , many private pension scheme can already make what be call serious ill health payment under tax law , if the member have up to one year to live . the change will be well worth make . the heartbreaking job of give a terminal illness diagnosis fall to health professional . modern medicine , surgery , palliative care and the general care provide by our incredible NHS staff make that judgment even more difficult . it be therefore right to extend the definition of terminally ill from the narrow band of six month to the more accommodating threshold of 12 month . that be fair not only to the ill person but to those who have to make the difficult judgment , especially when those health professional know that a person ' s pension payment may rest on that . as we just hear , the Bill extend throughout the United Kingdom , and come into force in England , Scotland and Wales four month after Royal Assent , and likewise in the case of Northern Ireland . I commend it to the House . it be a pleasure to support my hon . friend in this important change . I commend he on the detail in his speech , which he also display in the Bill Committee , on which I be happy to serve . the Bill recognise that regulation have move on . back in 2022 , the Government , with the support of Parliament , make change to social security benefit to align ourselves with what be happen in the NHS . plenty of people who get a terminal illness could find that their lifetime may be long than six or 12 month . the Bill consider particularly where people be diagnose later , and to accelerate or extend potential benefit . the national health service consider people to be terminally ill when they estimate that they have around 12 month leave to live . that be never an easy message to give , or for people to receive . there seem to be very little medical accuracy in get the timeline right , but that length of time have be well establish in the NHS . that be why this be sensible legislation — to align with how the nhs treat patient , as oppose to the somewhat arbitrary 6 month . the reference to the PPF and the financial assistance scheme available will be welcome by people right across the country . I be keen to see this legislation pass through the Commons and the Lords at great speed . I wish to begin also by thank the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for introduce this important Bill . it be a pleasure to speak on Third Reading . pension offer individual peace of mind , know that they have a dependable source of income after year of dedicated hard work . as well as alleviate the stress of financial uncertainty in old age , pension allow retiree to retain their standard of living during retirement . I welcome the Bill as it seek to provide the same opportunity for financial security for those with a terminal illness , and thus offer a more dignified end of life experience in what I can only imagine be an unstable and devastating time for the individual and their family . the Bill seek to extend the definition of terminal illness for the PPF and the FAS to 12 month , rather than the current six , to allow those who be eligible to receive vital financial support . I welcome the fact that the Bill will bring the PPF and the FAS in line with the NHS and Department for Work and Pensions definition of terminal illness , which be 12 month . indeed , thank to the brilliant work of our NHS and the consistent progress in medical science , it be difficult to predict how long someone be likely to live . in some case , patient be able to outlive their initial prognosis . that be why the Bill be so important . it be also due to our NHS and medical advancement that more and more of we be reach pensionable age . as we all know , many developed nation be now face an age population as birth rate decline . therefore , the amount of british people access their pension at any one time will steadily increase . in fact , pensioner represent 18 . 6 % of the population , and 12 . 5 % of my constituency be 65 and over . the Government have do so much to support pensioner . we hear in the autumn statement that the Government announce an 8 . 5 % increase in the state pension , in line with the Government ' s initiative : the triple lock . as a result , the new state pension be now worth up to £ 900 more a year and ensure that old people get the support they deserve . those near the end of their life deserve to have access to the same level of financial support . it be thank to the compassionate Government that people with terminal illness be able to get fast and easy access to certain benefit through the special benefit rule for end of life . recent change mean that special rule now apply to people who have 12 month or less to live , rather than six . those who be eligible be able to claim universal credit , employment and support allowance , personal independence payment , disability living allowance , and attendance allowance . the Bill will simply align the PPF and the FAS with those exist provision , reflect the Government ' s commitment thus far to aid those near the end of their life . the Government have also provide necessary cost of live support worth over £ 1 . 4 billion . the support include two round of means - test cost of living payment , disability cost of living payment and pensioner cost of living payment . we have all hear from our constituent the anxiety feel over the cost of living crisis , with rise price that be cause by the pandemic and Putin ' s weaponisation of energy due to his illegal invasion of Ukraine . imagine now how the situation would worsen for individual face a terminal illness : the cost of heat their home , travel to medical appointment , and potential childcare cost as their life be turn upside down . Marie Curie , the charity that do tremendous work in this area , have publish an eye - opening report , " die in Poverty " , which reveal that on average a pensioner ' s energy bill double once they be diagnose with a terminal illness . I find that incredible and very , very worrying . the report also highlight that people of working age who die be twice as likely to spend their final year of life in poverty , compare with people of pensionable age . that poignant reality demonstrate the crucial need for Bills like this one by enable individual in these unfortunate circumstance to access their pension early . the Bill address the crisis outline by charity such as Marie Curie and aim to restore dignity to those affect . I also pay tribute to amazing charity register in the Cities of London and Westminster that support those near the end of their life : compassion in Dying , a national charity that provide advice and information to those at the end of life ; the Sunseeker London Charitable Trust , which provide financial support to organisation dedicate to the care of terminally ill people ; and the Bennett Kleinwort Charitable Trust , which provide care and treatment for terminally ill people . the work of these charity play a crucial role in advance progress towards address the challenge face by terminally ill individual , which be also the objective of the Bill . once again , I express my support for this Bill . I understand that the hope be that it will encourage pension provider that do not currently have provision for serious ill health payment for those with a life expectancy of 12 month or less to consider put it in place . although the Bill may be narrow in scope , I be confident that it be a necessity and will have a wide positive impact . any one of we can be diagnose with a terminal illness , and it be important that there be provision in place to offer financial assistance . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury for bring forward this admirable Bill . I , too , congratulate the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) on bring this Bill before the House on Report and Third Reading . as we have hear , the Bill seek to ensure that there be financial support for terminally ill people who have see the sponsor of their pension scheme become insolvent . thankfully , it be a small number of people , and we hope it do not get any big , but that illustrate the narrowness of the Bill . it seek to expand eligibility for terminal illness payment from the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme from those with less than six month to live to those with less than 12 month to live , bring the definition of " terminally ill " in line with that use for social security payment by the Department for Work and Pensions , which the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) formerly lead . as the hon . member for Tewkesbury highlight , the Bill be narrow in scope and , thankfully , concern a fairly small number of people , but its impact for that group will be significant , because it will unlock access to a vital lifeline of support when they have receive a diagnosis . for that reason , labour support and welcome the Bill . receive a terminal diagnosis be devastating , both for the individual themselves and for their family and love one . such a diagnosis bring with it a slew a challenge and difficult decision . as the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) mention , the Marie Curie report on this issue make for very sobering reading . it point out that one in four people of working age who be diagnose with a terminal illness spend the last year of their life in poverty , and that one in six pensioner be below the poverty line at the end of their life . there be different reason for all those thing , but one have to imagine the circumstance in which people find themselves to understand that this Bill be a tiny step in the right direction for a group of people in a particular context . by no mean will it solve a lot of issue relate to old age , poverty and illness , which the Bill touch on . Marie Curie have also highlight that , all too often , terminal illness bring with it huge financial burden and extra cost of between £ 12 , 000 and £ 16 , 000 per year for a household . this be the so - call double burden of income loss and the additional cost that a terminal diagnosis can often bring about . it push family towards insecurity and fear about their income , and force they to confront poverty at a time when they have to deal with other insecurity and fear , add another layer of distress at the hard of time . those with a terminal illness should not be force to spend the end of their life worried about make end meet , and I be sure that all member would feel a lot happy if not so many of our pensioner find that that be what they face . by open up eligibility for support , be it through a lump sum payment from the financial assistance scheme or payment through the Pension Protection Fund in the narrow range of circumstance that the hon . member for Tewkesbury have rightly identify , this Bill will go some way to ease the financial burden on those who be lucky enough to have a define benefit pension entitlement , but unlucky enough to have have their pension fund go bust and end up in the Pension Protection Fund . extra access to cash can allow those near the end of their life to focus on spend the time they have leave with those they love , support with dignity and respect , which be what I think everyone in this House want to see . labour welcome this change , but I question why it have be leave to a private Member ' s Bill , albeit we be very happy to support the glorious achievement of the hon . member for Tewkesbury in bring it forward . we support the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 , which amend the DWP ' s definition of terminal illness , for the purpose of social security rule , to less than 12 month to live , raise it from less than six month . it be right to make that change then , but I wonder why more work be not do by the Department under the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal to check the consistency of those rule when the Act be put on to the statute book . if that have be do , we would have have two more year of support for the terminally ill between 2022 and 2024 , and many people would have be help . I wonder whether any other inconsistency be lurk in the DWP on the change from six month to 12 month , and whether the Minister might trawl through the many bit of legislation and many statutory instrument that deal with such thing to see whether any other inconsistency could be quickly put right . will she commit from the Dispatch Box to ensure consistency across all the definition of terminal illness and , because the move have be make to shift the definition from six month to 12 month , undertake to make certain that there be no other inconsistency lurk , so that we do not have to do this again with another private Member ' s Bill to make sure the definition finally land at 12 month , with no remain six - month definition cause inconsistency ? every hour , 10 people die in poverty in the UK , and one in four terminally ill people of working age spend the last year of their life in poverty . the cost of living crisis have acutely affect those who be near the end of their life . a terminally ill person ' s energy bill can rise by 75 % after their diagnosis , with critical equipment often send bill soar . for example , the cost of energy to run an oxygen concentrator can be £ 65 a month . a dialysis machine can cost £ 27 a month and a ventilator can cost £ 35 a month . very few people wish to be in hospital when they have access to these service but , all too often , it appear that we be leave they with the cost of run these vital bit of machinery to keep they alive . it be an indictment of 14 year of government failure and neglect of our public service that so many people be spend the end of their life in poverty , struggle to make end meet and worry whether they can afford to run the equipment that be keep they alive . the way our country treat those near the end of their life should be a mark of how civilised we be , and I fear that we be not pass that test as well as we should . I finish by repeat my congratulation to the hon . member for Tewkesbury on his work on this Bill . we fully support its aim , and we hope to see further work in this area . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for bring this important legislation to the House and for the way he have successfully navigate it to this stage . I thank he for his important speech and insight on why the Bill matter , match equally by those of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I thank the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) for her support for the Bill . she ask why these regulation be not include in the 2022 Act . unfortunately , they be out of scope as that Bill be alter entitlement condition for benefit . I assure she my official have say no other area be in need of amend — I see that get the thumb up from the Opposition Dispatch Box . on consistent definition , the Bill will build on previous legislation that change special rule for social security benefit . this final change bring the payment make by the Pension Protection Fund and financial assistance scheme into alignment with those change . I thank all member who have take part in the debate that have lead the Bill to progress to this stage , include the Committee stage , and for the cross - party support it have rightly receive . as have be outline , the Bill build on the 2022 change the Government introduce to social security benefit . that legislation be welcome by excellent key charity , such as Marie Curie , the Motor Neurone Disease Association and Macmillan Cancer Support . it change the special rule for a number of benefit , ensure claim be rightly fast track . those who be think to be in the final year of their life be able to receive vital financial support six month early . this week be Dementia Action Week , bring the UK together to take action on dementia and promote an understanding of its impact . the Alzheimer ' s Society and many group and charity do so much on this important issue . I extend my thank to they from the Dispatch Box . by extend the definition of terminal illness from six to 12 month ' life expectancy for payment under both the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme , the Bill complete the journey . the Bill will mean that member be able to rightly claim compensation on the ground of terminal illness , if a medical professional confirm that they have less than 12 month to live , rather than the current six month . hon . member have speak about the terrible time that people will be go through and the financial impact . there be often more financial assistance than perhaps people know , if they be not use to be part of the benefit arena . I urge people to look at the benefit calculator at gov . uk and to work with Citizens Advice , which run our help to claim service , so that cost can be meet and understand at a difficult time . to assure the hon . member for Wallasey , in my role as Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , I meet with the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) , this week to discuss cost and other matter concern the national disability strategy and the disability action plan . as the hon . Lady say , the issue be at the forefront of my mind and we be align on those concern . decision on terminal illness will be make by healthcare professional , such as clinician and medical practitioner . we thank they for that great work at such a difficult time , as point out by my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury . as we hear during Committee stage , the definition will include advanced cancer , dementia , motor neurone disease and other neurological disease , such as Parkinson ' s disease . the change restore the original policy intent of alignment between the social security special rule , and the Pension Protection Fund and financial assistance scheme terminal illness rule . just as importantly , they bring both scheme in line with the tax definition of serious ill health , which currently allow private pension scheme to make payment when the member have less than 12 month to live . I will briefly reiterate what I say in the early debate on the amendment and repeat what the Minister for Pensions say in Committee : it be never our intention to delay the commencement of these provision . there be no practical reason for we to do so . however , as discuss today , put a commencement date on the face of the Bill will provide certainty around the change at a time when people value certainty , and we will ensure that the provision can commence four month after Royal Assent , as signal . I do not want to detain the House any far . we know that be tell you be near the end of your life can be a frightening experience not only for the individual concerned , but for their family and their loved one . this Bill , although seemingly small , will have a really positive impact on those whom the provision cover , at a very difficult time . as with the 2022 Act , the Bill will ensure that when someone reach the final stage of life , they will not have those additional financial concern . receive a payment at an early stage in their final illness will help those people to plan more effectively , provide they with the opportunity to focus on their time with the people who matter to they . this debate give I the opportunity to thank the St Peter & St James Hospice , the Hospice in the Weald , St Catherine ' s Hospice in Pease Pottage , those local hospice that I be sure we all have , and those charity mention in this debate , who bring real comfort and support in all our constituency at such difficult time . this Bill will help people to live well to the end , with their love one and with that comfort . I greatly thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury for bring the Bill forward . we all wish it safe and speedy passage through the other place , so that it can reach the statute book and support those who need it , our love one and people in our community , with no undue delay . with the leave of the House , I call Laurence Robertson . I be pleased to draw this debate to a close by thank the Minister and the Opposition for their support , and in particular with regard to set the date for the commencement of legislation . in that context , I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) for her amendment . I thank all hon . member who have speak in this debate and particularly those who serve in the Committee stage . I also extend my thank to those at the Department for Work and Pensions and the Bill management team , who have be so very helpful , and to the staff at Marie Curie , who be mention early and who campaign so strongly on this issue . hon . member will know we can not function in this place without the help of our staff , so I particularly thank my staff , Benjamin Jones and Harry Wallis , for the work they have put in . I hope by work together on this piece of legislation that we will have make a difference . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be a long journey to get this Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill to this point . I be grateful for the cross - party and public effort and acknowledge the international interest in it . at the outset , I particularly express my thank to the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton , for his personal and vocal support for the Bill , include in the other place . it be pertinent that this be a private Member ' s Bill because , while it implement recommendation 6 of the Truro review and be therefore implement a manifesto commitment , its origin be on the Back Benches of the Commons and the Lords . in 2013 , the inaugural report of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief recognise the challenge for attention and concern for the right to freedom of religion or belief — as in article 18 of the universal declaration of human right — and describe it as " an orphan right " . this Bill will ensure that the office of the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief be secure as a permanent fixture in statute , and will embed the progress that the UK have make in promote the fundamental and universal human right to freedom of religion or belief around the world . since the all - party parliamentary group first produce that report , it have grow in number to more than 180 parliamentarian . I believe it be the large all - party group in this place . that reflect the increase in awareness and support for the right of freedom of religion or belief here in the UK , and I be very proud of that . have work internationally in this role as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for some three and a half year , I know that the parliamentary work on freedom of religion or belief stand out as a beacon across the world . it be with great delight that I hear one of my parliamentary colleague from the Opposition Benches say , " in this work , there isn ' t a piece of paper between we here in this House in what we believe in . " however , the increase in awareness here for this work sadly reflect the reality that , across the world , the right of religious minority be under severe attack . freedom of religion or belief have never be more important a cause to champion , for the simple reason that there have never be more people at risk — not just million but hundred of million discriminate against and deny life ' s chance , simply on account of what they believe . some may point out that have a special envoy in statute would be unprecedented , but if the objection to any change be simply that it be unprecedented , we would never make any progress . indeed , that be why we be here in this place — to make legislative change . what be unprecedented be that people have never be more heinously and despicably deny their wish to live out their belief . they have never experience , in the number they do today , more abuse , emotional or material hardship , incarceration , or even death , simply on account of what they believe . I hope to give some example of that a little later in my speech . in the time that I have be the UK ' s Prime Minister ' s special envoy — from late 2020 — we have see such an increase in instance of concern . there have not just be an increase in the number of authoritarian regime ; we have also see new challenge to freedom of religion or belief through ever increasingly sophisticated technology use to oppress people , and the darkly sinister expansion of transnational repression . let I mention a few example from country around the world . we have see , for example , the military coup in Myanmar exacerbate the persecution of religious minority , not least the Rohingya Muslims . we have see the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan , with every religious group there , other than those willing to succumb to the Taliban ' s way , now oppress and live in fear . in Russia , Jehovah ' s witness , include the elderly , be now be imprison as criminal simply for be pacifist and be unwilling to serve in the army , and Putin be weaponise Orthodox Christianity in the war against Ukraine , with place of worship deliberately destroy and report of pastor disappear . we have see daily disturbance in Iran , for which some have pay with their life . at the core of those be the cry for every iranian to be free to live in accordance with their individual belief . in Nigeria , thousand of Christians and some moderate Muslims be be massacre by islamic extremist every year . just on Tuesday this week , we commemorate the 21st birthday of Leah Sharibu , who be abduct by Boko Haram seven year ago and not release — as be other Chibok schoolgirl — because she refuse to renounce her christian faith . in Nicaragua , the Catholic Church be be particularly target . many people have be expel , include those run religious school or medical centre . even Mother Teresa ' s nun , who have be work there for over 30 year , be require with no notice at all to leave the country . we be all aware of the situation in China , where over 1 million Uyghurs and , reportedly , increasingly more be egregiously incarcerate in 20th - century concentration camp . many have disappear forever , and many be report as have die . the allegation of force organ harvesting against Falun Gong practitioner would simply defy belief have those allegation not be persistently make by so many . in Tibet , accord to recent UN report , up to 1 million child as young as two be be send away to boarding school , alienate from their family , culture and belief . the world should not stand silent about such thing . before my hon . friend move on , I would like to thank she specifically for her work as envoy . as she have just show , she have use her voice endlessly to shine a light on some of the dark corner of the world . I know that she will want I to mention Sudan , where we have see systemic ethnic cleansing of non - Arabs , perhaps more on the ground of race than religion , and that she will also want I to mention the fact that religious leader can be a force for good in try to stop violence . in particular , in South Sudan , we see the Pope , the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Moderator of the Church of Scotland work together to call for an end to violence . I would like to say a massive thank you to my hon . friend for her work as envoy , which show why this role be so important . I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention , and even more so for her work as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Sudan and South Sudan , as well as for her acknowledgment of the importance of freedom of religion or belief when she be a Minister in the Foreign Office . she be absolutely right : the influence that religious leader can have in bring community together and prevent the kind of atrocity I have refer to can not be overstate . this year , it have be my privilege to have collaborate with the Archbishop of Canterbury to highlight and focus on this issue , include at an event at the Foreign Office attend by over 100 of those engage on the issue here in the UK and internationally , among they several parliamentarian — I remember that my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) be there . the role I have give the UK an additional privilege : that of hold out the importance of freedom of religion or belief across the world . however , the man , woman and child around the world who suffer — whether under the hard arm of authoritarian regime or at the ruthless whim of militant mob — need not just our voice , but our partnership . they need not just our word , but our action ; not just our intention , but our effective help . that be why the role of envoy , the office that I have the privilege of hold at present , need securing and resource over the long term , beyond the term of any particular Government or party in power . of course , this Bill intend to do just that . as I say , the Bill fulfil the Government ' s manifesto commitment to act on their word and fully implement the Truro review , which include a recommendation to make the special envoy role permanent , with the requisite authority and resource . there be only one other country in the world with a similar office . the US have have a permanent office promote and protect freedom of religion or belief for over 25 year . the stability of that office over time have ensure a build - up of resource , expertise and research capability that enable it to make a significant contribution towards combat forb abuse across the world . the UK may be small , but if we have such an office , and secure and resource it as a continuation of the office that I have the privilege of hold at present , it would enable we to speak across the world with a powerful voice for good . we have see the good influence that the current Foreign Secretary be have as he speak out across the world . have represent three Prime Ministers now , I have be so encouraged by the respect in which the UK be hold as we speak out internationally . we sometimes underplay that here , to our detriment . it be note in Committee that although , of course , the Prime Minister will personally appoint their special envoy , the legislative description in the Bill be of a " Minister of the Crown . " the title of " Prime Minister ' s special envoy " provide the vital authority internationally to advocate of behalf of the UK , as I have just touch on . clause 1 reflect the current purpose of the envoy and the requirement to report directly to the Prime Minister . that direct accountability be so important , and I have find it so helpful under each of the Prime Ministers I have serve . I thank they all for their active support for my role . clause 1 ( 6 ) provide for the continued office of the special envoy and resource to fulfil the role . I say to my hon . friend , across the House , that we be all on the same side when it come to advocate for freedom of religion or belief . in fact , I do not know of a single member in this House who oppose the Bill . why ? because we recognise that it will provide an opportunity to do good — real good — and to change life . we recognise that anyone who oppose the Bill , or seek to prevent its passage in any way , be in effect oppose the opportunity to do good . I absolutely support the Bill . I be not a religious person — I do not follow any religion — but I support the Bill because I believe in freedom , which be so important . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be about not only freedom of religion , but freedom of belief ? at the heart of the Bill be freedom for people to feel what they feel , whatever their religion . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the clue be in the title : the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . " Belief " indicate that there be some who do not hold a religious belief but who be equally entitled to our support , advocacy and protection on account of their belief , whatever they be . I will give the House some example of the good that this office , if secure permanently , could continue to do . about 18 month ago , my office — the office of the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief — initiate our monthly " religious prisoner of conscience " scheme . every month we champion , and call for the release of , a prisoner across the world who be incarcerate — sometimes in inhumane condition — simply on account of their belief . we have champion a Jehovah ' s Witness in Tajikistan , Buddhists in Tibet , Montagnards in Vietnam , a Sufi Muslim in Nigeria , Christians and human right leader in Myanmar and Nicaragua , a pastor in Cuba , Baha ' be in Iran and other . this monthly programme be quickly take up by the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , now make up of 43 country , which the UK chair for two year , 2022 to 2023 . that mean it be not just the UK call for the release of these prisoner , but the collective voice of country around the world . that advocacy , along with the advocacy of other internationally , have result in the release of four of those prisoner , all of whom be face several year . they include an elderly prisoner who be extremely ill and need medical attention , and who I believe would have die have he not be release ; he have now have that treatment and be get well . two other prisoner be young girl in their 20 who face several year in prison simply for have change their faith ; they be now free and start new life safe in another country . just this week , we hear good news about another of the prisoner of conscience we have champion — this will interest my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . we champion the case of Mubarak Bala , a humanist in Nigeria , who be sentence to some 25 year in prison simply for his belief ; in fact , the deputy special envoy , David Burrowes , go to Nigeria and meet Mubarak ' s wife last year . I be pleased to say that this week we hear that his sentence have be reduce to five year . that be good news , but we be not give up — we will carry on campaign for his full release . that be the good this role can do , and do . apart from challenge autocratic regime , as we do , work in this sphere and stand up for those whose basic human right have be trample over simply because of their belief can make all the difference in the world to people like those I have just mention . this have enable the UK to show global leadership . I be proud to say that the special envoy team for freedom of religion or belief recently win an international award for Government leadership on forb . as the Bill hopefully pass its final stage here in the Commons today , I look forward to it go forward to the Lords . again , I thank everyone who have be involve in its passage to date . I rise to speak briefly in support of the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) . put the special envoy for freedom of religion or belief on a statutory footing be an extremely good measure that we should all support . I want to very briefly talk about the way I have see my hon . friend the Member for Congleton carry out her role in my capacity as chair of the British Group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union . my hon . friend regularly attend event that we hold here , where we host parliamentarian from around the world . she have the ability to connect with those parliamentarian to offer they the support they need . very often , those politician might be subject to persecution in their own country because of their religion , despite be elect politician . my hon . friend really do provide great support and offer they hope that the work they be do can have a positive outcome . my hon . friend be also able to demonstrate the UK ' s lead in this area at the first Inter - Parliamentary Union parliamentary conference on interfaith dialogue , which be hold last year ; it be so far the only such conference , but I hope there will be more . my hon . friend be one of the star speaker at that event . she be able to come in and talk about the work we do here in the UK . this be an event that bring together faith leader and politician from around the world . there be some authoritarian regime represent , to try to open up that dialogue and show that freedom of religion and belief be a very valuable matter , and that we as politician need to communicate more with faith leader than we probably do . when I be Minister for modern slavery , it be the faith group that be able to offer the most support to victim of modern slavery . Mr Deputy Speaker , you be one of the most amiable and approachable chap I know , but I suspect that many of your constituent find it easy to speak to their local priest , rabbi or other religious leader than to you , because of the trust that people have in the religious and faith leader they interact with . therefore , it be incredibly important for you to have a dialogue with your faith leader , as it be for all of we here , because it be how we find out about what be go on for our constituent and how we can get support to they . we can not overstate the importance of faith and its interaction with politic , and how we must all be part of it . I thank my right hon . friend for highlight the importance of interfaith dialogue . I must not miss the opportunity to promote one of the project be undertake by the international alliance of 43 country . we have a working group on interfaith dialogue , which be launch this year , and we be call for contribution of good example of such dialogue from around the world . I encourage anyone in this place , and anyone listen to the debate or read about it afterwards , to contact our alliance — they can do so through I — in order to contribute . I be so grateful to my hon . friend for raise that . I know that we will all take note of it and look to promote it to our constituent . I will conclude by say the UK already have a lead role in this area , but put the envoy on a statutory footing will reinforce that role , ensure continuity and emphasise the intent of Parliament to ensure that freedom of religion and belief be always observe . I rise to support this important Bill . I will be the first to say that Parliament often rush too quickly to create office and commissioner for this , that and the other , when a lot of this work should be do by Ministers , who should be hold to account by Parliament for their activity . but I be also very conscious that something that may seem quite narrow in its scope may be low down in the day - to - day life of a Minister . the challenge that people of faith face around the world be so acute that create this special role permanently , as Parliament wish , be a really important step in ensure that one of people ' s most fundamental freedom — freedom of religion or belief — be protect . it be something that the United Kingdom cherish so much that the Prime Minister will have somebody perform that role in their name , work with they and the Foreign Office to ensure , through intervention and by convene thing like the international alliance , that it be not just an afterthought . it be something that Parliament have decide really matter to the outcome that the post seek to achieve . I have the good fortune this week to visit the Vatican with three other Members of Parliament on the all - party parliamentary group on the Holy See . we meet a variety of group as well as be part of the general audience and meet his Holiness Pope Francis . I be strike by the conversation that we have with sister who be part of the International Union of Superiors General . those nun undertake really valuable , often dangerous work right around the world , not only in the traditional form of education or help with care , in hospital or palliative care setting , but increasingly in try to tackle thing such as modern slavery . I declare an interest as a trustee of the organisation Arise , which do exactly that : we train sister around the world to identify potential victim of force labour and exploitation . we give they training on how to make sure that worker — for example , on tea plantation in India — be properly regularise , know their right and have the right documentation . it be the sister who do that work , and they be utterly wonderful . my right hon . friend give I a great opportunity to pay tribute to they , and I thank she for that . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . I know how much this issue matter to she when she be in the Home Office . traditionally , the sister will stay in place of conflict and real difficulty despite the threat that they receive . in the past , a religious such as a nun or a priest would have be give some sort of protection , but unfortunately that be no long the case , and in fact such people be start to become target . I be lead to believe that 12 % of the world ' s nun be in India . India be an amazing country , but many of we will have be horrify by the regular and active persecution of Christians in part of that country . of course the UK Government need their important relationship with our Commonwealth friend , which recently host a very successful G20 summit and be a very important part of the global economy , but they also need to challenge aspect of the way in which it deal with freedom of religion and belief . I believe that our minister do that successfully , but it be of additional benefit to have a special envoy of the Prime Minister ' s who work with many country , through the international alliance , on raise these issue . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) mention a case that she have tackle in Nigeria . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech . may I augment what she have just say about the international alliance ? just this week , three member of its council of expert produce a report on the continue atrocity in Manipur , which have be go on for a year . I be pleased that the Foreign Secretary have speak in such positive term about our expert ' first report , which be produce a year ago , and I hope that member , and those who be listen to the debate , will look at the further report lead by the well - know and prestigious former BBC reporter David Campanale . those atrocity in Manipur require much more attention . my hon . friend be right to make that point , and a permanent role will continue to bring that focus . as the Bill make clear , staff and accommodation will be provide when they be consider to be necessary , which I think be important . this role have be occupy by Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon and by my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) — whom my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary commend when I be speak to he the other day in the Vatican — and now we have my hon . friend , whose approach have be exemplary . the report commission by my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) when he be Foreign Secretary lead to the Truro review , to which my hon . friend the Member for Congleton refer at length , but it be important to note that this role have evolve , and be now not simply about Christianity . event target Christianity be the initial trigger , and give rise to the Foreign Office work on this , but my hon . friend have speak eloquently about the need to expand the role far , and have undertake to do that . she mention that the United States also have a permanent office . I believe that that will trigger the potential for post elsewhere in the world , and that have to be a force for good . we need people who can focus solely on these matter . the Bill do not require they to be politician . for what it be worth , I think that a sensible balance can be strike , but that will be for the Prime Minister to decide in the future . nor be the Bill try to create a platform for someone who be disgruntle . I believe that a Prime Minister , regardless of which political party run this country , will have the wisdom to appoint someone who be seek headline not for their own purpose , but on behalf of those who have be deprive of the freedom to practise a religion or hold a belief . I be conscious that the Front Benchers be yet to speak and that progress need to be make on various piece of legislation today , and I know that my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) also wish to speak , so I will abbreviate my comment . this issue really matter to I , and I believe it matter to my constituent . it matter that we have a world where these sort of freedom be treasure and protect , and have a special envoy on freedom of religion or belief in the name of the UK Prime Minister will help to make sure that happen . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) on all her work on the Bill and in this area . I be privileged to be involve in Committee , and I fully support the work that she have undertake and wish to be take forward under the Bill . the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief play a role that be so important to many people internationally , as we have hear , and the post firmly place the UK in a leadership role in this area . I be privileged to see what happen in my constituency of East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow when my hon . friend visit St Bride ' s parish church in East Kilbride , on the scottish leg of her United Kingdom tour . so many member of my local community , from different faith , come to hear she speak about the importance of the role , and about how she be reach out internationally and make a difference for the most vulnerable people in the world . all of those who attend be unite in see the value of the role and her work , and how vital it be that it should continue . it be testament to my hon . friend ' s selflessness that she do not wish at all to champion the work that she be do ; rather , she want to champion the plight of the most vulnerable , and wish from the bottom of her heart to make sure that this work continue for decade and Parliaments to come , under the auspex of this important role . I have see that at first hand , and I know that my constituency be reflective of those across the UK . my constituent who value the role — so many come to the meeting ; the church be pack — be no different from those across the UK . they too very much value the role and the UK ' s leadership , and see the good work that be be do and its tangible outcome , which help the most persecute across the world . I thank my hon . friend once again for that work , for her selflessness and for make sure that it continue for posterity . I congratulate the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) on bring forward her Bill for its remain stage . I have be in many debate with she over the year , and her commitment to the cause of freedom of religion or belief be second to none . as speaker have outline this morning , the concept initially focus on Christians be persecute abroad , but I have be so impressed by the way that the role have develop into something much broad , with so much international resonance . freedom of religion or belief be a core tenet of fundamental human right , and human right will always be at the heart of Labour ' s outlook on the world and the centre of the shaping of our foreign policy . my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , the shadow Foreign Secretary , have make that clear , and have , in meeting , consider many of the suggestion that the hon . member for Congleton have make to he . I put on record her commitment to cross - party work to address international concern . she have be party - blind in her work across both Houses . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary have make it clear that Labour will ensure that the UK stand against persecution and oppression in any form , and will promote freedom of religion or belief as a key component of our foreign policy , if perchance we be entrust with the responsibility of government by the british people at the next election . in her assiduous campaigning , the hon . member for Congleton , and indeed member across the House , have raise issue with the treatment of religious minority across the globe . as I look around the Chamber , I be rather surprised not to see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . if he be here , he would now be intervene to say how much he support the Bill . in many country , include the UK , religious freedom be take for grant , and people can worship or choose not to worship , whatever their belief , but that be sadly not the case in vast swathe of the world . there have be a grow trend in recent year for religious minority to be persecute simply for the belief that they cherish so dearly . we sadly see an increase in all sort of persecution , include of those in the LGBTQ community . hon . member often point out example of religious persecution during debate in the Chamber . the hon . member for Congleton mention the chinese treatment of the Uyghur Muslim , and we hear in a speech about the treatment of the Rohingya minority in Myanmar . I know that those two cause mean so much to the hon . member . it be clear to all of we that the persecution of religious minority happen in many part of the world , and it be in that spirit that the hon . Member have bring the Bill forward for its remain stage today . the opposition will not stand in the way of the Bill move forward , but I repeat — I say this last time — that we should bear in mind that there have be backslide on the situation for woman and girl in many part of the world , and particularly their reproductive right . that be often tie into religious expression . I be keen to put that on record as a concern that need to be bear in mind when the post be establish . while freedom of religion or belief do not necessarily conflict with either LGBTQ + issue or the right of woman and girl to reproductive health , it would be wrong to give the impression of put right in a hierarchy . I be pleased that in the Bill Committee , the technical issue around how the statutory basis would work and the flexibility and responsiveness of the Government to appoint the special envoy be address and iron out , cross party . in recent week , a representative for humanitarian affair be appoint in the occupied palestinian Territories ; that demonstrate how important these role be . I be sure that the House will continue debate and scrutinise freedom of religion or belief on many occasion . I welcome comment from the hon . Member and the Minister on any of the issue as we conclude the debate . we will not divide the House on the Bill . I be really grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) for promote the Bill , which the Government be pleased to support . it be a pleasure to set out today why the Bill be so important in cement and support our long - stand commitment to freedom of religion or belief — FORB , as it be know for short . I thank hon . member who have contribute to this debate , and indeed to so many before . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) , mention the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ; he find I yesterday to give I his apology for not be here today . she be right that we all miss his voice in this important debate . as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton set out , the Bill will make the role of the special envoy for freedom of religion or belief statutory . establish the role permanently and in perpetuity be a recommendation in the Bishop of Truro ' s 2019 independent review of the work of the then Foreign and Commonwealth Office on freedom of religion or belief , and the implementation of that recommendation be a manifesto commitment for the Conservatives in 2019 . this Bill will ensure that the special envoy have clearly define duty , that they will report to the Prime Minister on their work and that a Minister of the Crown must provide resource for the special envoy to carry out their function . it reinforce the Government ' s long - stand commitment to forb for all , which will support we in continue to embed freedom of religion or belief within the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . perhaps most significantly , it will ensure that the positive work be undertake by today ' s special envoy in this human right priority area will be continue by future role holder . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton , the current special envoy , for all the work she do to promote and protect forb globally . she recently conclude her second term as chair of the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance . this be the first time in the organisation ' s history that a chair be request to serve a second term , which be testament to her dedication to the role . as chair of the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , our special envoy establish a scheme to raise awareness of a different prisoner of conscience every month . the scheme have champion the case of individual belong to a range of religious and belief community , and in three case individual be subsequently release . I hesitate to correct the Minister but , just for the record , an additional prisoner of conscience be release very recently , which be why I refer to four , not three . my hon . friend continue to demonstrate both why her role be important and why her indomitable presence in the role be of such value to all those who need to be champion . may I put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) ? I be co - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on Egypt , and she have be such a help on the issue of freedom of religion or belief . I thank my hon . friend . another achievement of my hon . friend the Member for Congleton , with my noble Friend the Minister for human right , Lord Ahmad , be host the fourth international ministerial conference in 2022 . this event bring together Government delegation , faith and belief group leader , human right actor and civil society from over 100 country to address the challenge to the right to freedom of religion or belief . this be just a small example of the work so diligently undertake by our special envoy . last month , in the other place , I be pleased to hear the Foreign Secretary restate his support for this Bill and acknowledge the excellent work be do on freedom of religion or belief . on a more sobering note , the scale of abuse and violation of the right to forb across the world remain deeply concern , which datum , include from the Pew forum and the Open Doors world watchlist , continue to reinforce . and history have show we that , too often , where freedom of religion or belief be under threat , other human right be at risk too . we be firm in our position that no one should be persecute , abuse or intimidate because of their religion or belief , or lack thereof . protect and promote the right to forb have be a long - stand commitment of this Government , and the fcdo be work on this in a number of way , include through our multilateral and bilateral work , to embed forb across our programme . I now turn to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Congleton and agree in Committee on 24 April . legislation impose duty on the Prime Minister be very rare and limited , and the amendment thus remove the statutory duty place on the Prime Minister , instead place they on a Minister of the Crown , which be more appropriate in this instance . however , the special envoy will continue to be know as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for forb . retain this title will ensure that the role continue to have the appropriate authority and recognition internationally , enable future role holder to continue advocate for forb globally , as my hon . friend do with such dedication . the duty of the special envoy have be clarify , set the same high expectation of delivery for future incumbent as have be achieve by my hon . friend . the Bill ' s title be also amend to Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill so that it refer specifically to the special envoy . this adjustment more accurately reflect the Bill ' s scope and content . the amend Bill furthermore remove the requirement to establish a separate office of the special envoy , ensure that exist resource arrangement be maintain . to conclude , his Majesty ' s Government be commit to protect and promote freedom of religion or belief for all . the Bill cement our commitment to the role of special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , and deliver on our manifesto commitment to implement the recommendation of the Bishop of Truro ' s review . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . I thank my right hon . friend the Members for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) for their speech today . in particular , I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) for her support . I know that her personal commitment to this issue , from the very many debate we have share and the all - party parliamentary group we have work on together , be genuine and profound . I thank , too , my right hon . friend the Minister . may I also ask she to convey my thank to all the Ministers in the fcdo , who have strongly support the Bill to ensure its passage through this place ? finally , I would like to thank all the member of the Public Bill Committee for their wonderful support , and the Clerk , Anne - Marie Griffiths , for her unflappable counsel and patience . thank , too , to the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) for her terrific and efficient support , and to my private secretary , to Sue Breeze in the fcdo , and , finally , to the Prime Minister ' s deputy special envoy , David Burrowes , for his unfailingly wise and calm counsel . this short Bill embed our collective commitment and solidarity with individual across the world who courageously stand for their faith or belief , and do so suffer discrimination , harassment , persecution or bad . another person who I know would have be here , and who it be right to remember , be Sir David Amess . he be a huge supporter of the mover of this Bill . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 1 - livestock worrying : scope and consequence of offence I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 10 , leave out " clarify the penalty that apply " and insert — " increase the penalty that may be impose " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 2 . with this it will be convenient to discuss amendment 2 , schedule , page 5 , line 29 , leave out — " not exceed level 3 on the standard scale " . this amendment increase the fine that can be impose on a person convict of the livestock worry offence . it allow for an unlimited fine to be impose . it be a pleasure to speak to my own Bill . it have its origin in the topic to be consider on the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , but for a variety of reason , which I expect we may go into again on Third Reading , this be now a single - issue Bill . I also rise to speak to the amendment . in Committee , there be considerable discussion on what penalty would be deem appropriate . one concern I have — I table my own amendment — be simply to ensure that we be not in a situation where the penalty could in any way be less than what have be intend in the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 . there be no question of that in many way because the penalty in the original 1953 Act be so small , but it do allow a situation to emerge where there be an increase in penalty or fine against owner of dog if there have be repeat offence . that be what I seek to discuss with hon . member , the Minister and official , to ensure that that be not the case . I be delighted that the Government agree with that principle and that official be able to come forward with a different amendment , which I be delighted to be move today . amendment 2 be the substantive amendment — amendment 1 be consequential to it — and if the House agree to it , the person who commit an offence under the section be liable , on summary conviction , to a fine . there be no limit on that fine ; it be an unlimited penalty . this have become a trend in legislation in recent time . that matter because Parliament be not put in place a cap on what can be do . the flexibility that we can give to the court be an important way of tackle unacceptable behaviour , such as effectively neglect the conduct of a dog so that it attack other animal . I would still expect the Sentencing Council to issue guideline regard what will be appropriate , but in Committee it be deem important to ensure that we reinstate that element of ensure there could be an escalation , and not some arbitrary cap where Parliament decide once and for all on what the fine could be , depend on the severity of the offence . in Committee we hear of multiple situation involve either one ewe or lamb , or indeed several . as a consequence , I think it right to allow our court discretion to adjust the fine accordingly , in line with what the public would expect . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this Bill , which I fully support . will she briefly give a summary of the Bill for those member who might not have be follow its passage as closely as I have ? I would be happy to do that , but I think Mr Deputy Speaker might say that be out of order while we be discuss specific amendment . I will make sure that I do that on Third Reading , if my hon . friend be amenable to that . I be also hope to get leeway from Mr Deputy Speaker to talk about amendment that we do not table . another significant discussion in Committee be about disqualification order , whether we should be able to apply those , and what legislation be available to do that . the Minister and I both commit to look into the issue far , which we do , and there be a variety of other legislation , include the Animal Welfare Act 2006 , which relate to this sort of activity . I be grateful to the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Sir Mark Spencer ) who respond to member of the Committee who want to go far , and discuss why that be not the case . as I indicate in Committee , I understand that power be available to undertake such action , but not specifically in this Bill . I do not know whether that have be share with the House , but depend on the procedure that be allow , I would be happy to ask for such information to be place in the Library of the House . in essence , the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 set out a non - exhaustive definition of when a dog be to be regard as dangerously out of control , and if necessary a prosecution could be bring under that Act , instead of the Bill . further legislation even date back to the Dogs Act 1871 , regard when a magistrate ' court can make a control or destruction order if it appear to the court that the dog be dangerous and not under control . a disqualification order can also be make if the court have decide to make an order for the destruction of a dog by virtue of legislation . that will , I hope , answer some of the question that I have receive from member of the public regard why certain power be not specifically include in the Bill . although it can be understandably tricky to navigate our legislation , political party such as the Liberal Democrats seem to excel in ignore legislation and try to create it and then accuse other of not do something when something be already a criminal offence . I want to ensure that it be on the record that we be not ignore the opportunity for people to be refuse the opportunity to own dog in the future , if they be simply be irresponsible in allow this sort of attack , it be just that it will not be cover specifically in the Bill . we have basically allow unlimited penalty to be apply . I think that be good news for aspect of animal welfare , and it will , I hope , be a significant deterrent to people , and encourage they to be more careful with their dog — we will get into that on Third Reading and discuss why we be do this at all . the Bill will add strength so that we see a massive reduction in livestock worry . I congratulate the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on her progress with this important Bill . livestock worry cause havoc for farmer up and down the country . the vast majority of dog be lovable and good - natured family pet , and most owner be responsible and would never dream of let their pet chase down , never mind attack , livestock in field . however , a small minority of dog be not keep under control , and run loose and aggressively chase down , attack and sometimes even kill livestock , leave farmer to deal with the stress of their animal ’ injury and death . we have hear grow concern in the farming community about dog attack . farmer regularly tell I about their personal experience of dog chase or attack their livestock . a horrific incident be report to I where someone deliberately set several aggressive XL bully dog on a flock of sheep , deliberately train they to become more aggressive . the farmer call the police , but they do not consider it a serious enough crime even to turn up — far too often the story with rural crime . there be too many case like that . the National Farmers Union find that UK farm animal worth an estimate £ 2 . 4 million be severely injure or kill by dog in 2023 alone — a staggering cost at a time when farmer face a devastating storm of rise energy bill , high personal taxation and the damaging effect of severe and repeat flooding . I be deeply concerned about the emotional and psychological impact of these incident on farmer , when their mental health be increasingly at risk . we see that in the tragic fact that farming now have the high suicide rate of any sector in the UK economy . I be very pleased that the right hon . Member and the Minister have listen to call make on Second Reading and in Committee for strong sanction against owner of dog involve in livestock worrying . I welcome the right hon . member ' s amendment in response to request to allow much more severe penalty , but it be a shame that the Bill do not go far on disqualification in facilitate further deterrence . I listen to what she say about disqualification , but as my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) say in Committee , the fact that disqualification be bring forward in the original Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill suggest that the Bill be an appropriate place for it . I wonder whether the right hon . Member have look far into the merit of include a requirement for dog to be keep on lead when in close proximity to livestock . the Opposition be not convince by the Minister ' s explanation of why he think the cost outweigh the benefit of do that . again , as my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge argue , it be entirely reasonable to require dog to be on lead around livestock . at the very least , we should do more to educate dog owner on how to control their pet and stop they escape and cause havoc while on the loose . we should certainly promote great awareness of the countryside code . my hon . friend be make an excellent contribution by highlight the need for dog to be on lead and the terrible pressure on farmer at this difficult time . far to the point about education and information for owner , sadly there be a small minority of irresponsible dog owner who have cause terrible problem for farmer . there be a much broad group of dog owner who be responsible , and the point about encourage the use of lead be important . would he like further information to be provide to dog owner and family with dog , to remind they of the importance of have their dog on a lead when they be near livestock ? my hon . friend make an important point and perhaps the Minister will address it . in many case , of course , when a pet dog attack animal , the owner will say , " they ' ve never do that before — it didn ' t happen before , " but clearly it can . the more education people have about the risk , the more likely they be to take action that would prevent that from happen . in summary , the Bill be a big step forward in support farmer and protect their livestock . the opposition be keen to see the measure in the Bill introduce as quickly as possible , as they be long overdue and clearly urgently need . we continue to support this legislation and I wish it well as it continue its journey through the House . it be a pleasure to speak on what I consider to be a very important Bill . not only be it important to many countryside lover , but it have be very much support by the National Farmers Union and the National Sheep Association , and it will play an important role in strengthen our legislation to deter livestock worrying . I must thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) for her dog support for the legislation , and those on the shadow Benches for their support ; I know the Bill be fully support . while I have a farming - link remit within DEFRA , I be also the access Minister , and the legislation be important in term of access to the countryside , as well because it will give add awareness to people who be go out with dog . we be encourage people into the countryside for many reason — the health and wellbee benefit and all that — but , as the shadow Minister mention , we need to raise awareness of the countryside code . take one ' s dog out into the countryside be a wonderful thing , but respect and understanding must be give to the farming community and to all the responsibility that lie therein for dog owner walk their dog . this be important legislation and it will help . I will speak briefly to the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal . she have listen very carefully to the comment in Committee , which be why she have table these amendment . they seem to make complete sense and I know they have have a great deal of support . she want to be sure , as do other , that the court have the appropriate discretion to impose a high fine where it be warrant . the current maximum fine that might be impose be a level 3 fine not exceed £ 1 , 000 ; increase the maximum fine to an unlimited amount would serve to provide an additional deterrent and help to reduce the likelihood of livestock worry . my hon . friend for the Minister for Water and Rural Growth commit to support this amendment in Committee , and I reconfirm that support today . just to clarify , as be mention in the Committee , the maximum fine available will be determine by this legislation and will not depend on the sentencing guideline . sentence guideline be develop by the independent Sentencing Council for England and Wales , in fulfilment of its statutory duty . as an independent body , the council decide its own priority and work plan for review guideline to reflect any legislative change . a comment be make about dog on lead , which I know be discuss in Committee . the 1953 Act do not make it mandatory for a dog to be keep on a lead around livestock , although a person do commit an offence under the Act if the dog attack or worry livestock on agricultural land . I be pleased to say that the offence include road and path nearby . however , there be often sign stipulate when to put a dog on a lead or where it would be helpful to do so , for example , if there be livestock in the field or in particular where there be cow with calf . I personally would not go into a field where there be cow with calf , because a cow with a calf attack I when I be a child , but that be a decision for people to make . if a dog owner keep their dog on a lead , that can sometimes attract cattle to the dog , so the Committee ' s view , which I support , be that , in certain specific circumstance , there be a risk to the owner of keep the dog on a lead . I think my right hon . Friend agree with that ; perhaps she will add some comment shortly . for those reason , the Bill be not propose to go down that road . on that note , I urge all hon . member to support the Bill . with the leave of the House , I wish to respond to the comment make by the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) . I be aware that , in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , there be a much great element of rewrite lot of law . I be conscious that this be a private member ' s Bill with five clause and a schedule that be already reasonably comprehensive . I look at the issue very carefully and I be satisfied that it be perfectly straightforward to get the control disqualification order necessary through exist legislation , without need to legislate far . I hope that the hon . Gentleman be satisfied that the police already have the necessary power . we will come to the substantial change in the Bill shortly , but these amendment be about ensure sufficient financial penalty . provision to have a dog destroy or to disqualify people from own a dog be already cover . on his point about keep dog on lead , there be a variety of situation in which people will have a dog with they . in addition , people can put a dog on a lead but still not be in control of it . ultimately , that be what this be about . amendment 1 agree to . Amendment make : 2 , in the schedule , page 5 , line 29 , leave out " not exceed level 3 on the standard scale " . — ( Dr Coffey . ) Third reading . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be pleasure to be able to give a short summary of the Bill . the 1953 Act already provide legislation on the subject , but the Bill seek to make it more straightforward for the police to do their job . in particular , it will allow they to seize dog to take sample , dental impression and the like . at the moment , be able to do that rely on the good will of dog owner . the Bill extend the scope of the provision , so they do not only apply to a field that a farmer may own where livestock be keep . it recognise that agricultural practice mean that animal be often transfer from one field to another . for example , current legislation do not apply when animal be cross a road and a dog be out of control , so the Bill extend the scope to cover such situation . it be important to ensure we have the power of entry . an application to a justice of the peace be still require to get that . the Bill be all about try to ensure the police have appropriate power and to make it more straightforward to prosecute the owner of dog that be not behave responsibly . right hon . member and hon . member have rightly talk about what the Bill be really about . it be not about penalise people who want to enjoy the countryside on casual walk , which I fully encourage . it be important for people to have access and awareness of nature and to enjoy the countryside responsibly , but they need to recognise that a living , thrive and work countryside provide many farmer with their livelihood , which be why livestock need protection . a few year ago , I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend to the Smithills Estate to plant the first tree in the 15 million tree - strong Northern Forest . one of the key part of the visit be when child from St Peter ' s Smithills Dean Primary School help to plant those tree . will my right hon . friend comment on the importance of education ? we want more people from all background to enjoy the countryside and to know about how to keep livestock safe . I agree very much with my hon . friend , who be right to recognise that . there have be particular concern since covid that the training of dog can often be challenge . the NFU and other have lead I to believe that dog leave at home can often break out . the owner will not even know anything about an attack or livestock worrying , but the consequence can be significant . it be not simply that a dog will bite or kill a ewe or a calf ; it be important to recognise that even just dog run around can cause ewe and pig to have abortion and so on . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and I thank she for bring forward this Bill . she be a true champion of the farming community in Suffolk and across the country , and she talk about the NFU . she will know that it be not just about the individual case but about the scale of this problem , which I be happy to say do not exist in Southend . the NFU mutual datum show that the value of claim for dog attack on farm animal rise to more than £ 1 . 8 million in 2022 . I do not know before prepare for today ' s debate that , as she point out , it be not necessarily about when a dog come into contact with a sheep . just have dog chase sheep can cause a pregnant ewe to die or miscarry — order . I remind the hon . Lady that intervention be intervention , not speech . if she wish to speak on Third Reading , she will have the opportunity to do so . I hear what you say , Mr Deputy Speaker . I think my hon . friend be get so passionate about this issue that her intervention may have go on a little too long , but she be right to point out the financial cost and to say that it be about not simply the attack but potential injury and stress , which can have consequence . she be right to highlight that . I recently hold a roundtable about this issue in my constituency , and I speak to farm manager and shepherdess about the situation . member may know that , without any consequence , a farmer or landowner may shoot a dog that be cause worrying , although often farmer do not want to go around shoot other people ' s dog . indeed , beyond the impact that it would have on they , not all farmer be license to do that , which be the situation in which some of the people at my meeting find themselves . they simply want people to have well control of their dog , which do not necessarily mean that dog should be on lead . as I have already mention in respond to the amendment , dog can be on lead that be not even attach to the owner . it be control and recall that really matter , but lead be important for people who be unfamiliar with walk in the countryside or who can not control their dog , for whatever reason . lead be vital in that regard , and they be a way for we to make sure that people have responsible access to the countryside . this be the fourth Bill before we today , and I be conscious that those on both Front Benches would like to see further progress on other legislation before the House . I want to thank Tim Pratt , Tilly Abbott , Will Pratt , Ed Hawkins and Heidi Crick , as well as Ella Thackray and Jen Cox from the NFU , who come to speak to I about this issue . I have have multiple representation from right around the country . this Bill extend to both England and Wales , in line with the original 1953 Act , but other legislation be already in place in Northern Ireland and Scotland , where different legal system have evolve over the year . I believe that this Bill be a straightforward way to make sure that we help our farmer , whose primary role be to grow food to put on our plate and should not be about worrying — literally — about other people ' s animal worry their livestock . the measure in this Bill be originally include in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . I be pleased to say that we be start to see other element of that propose legislation go through . just this week , the ban on live export receive Royal Assent , and there have be regulation on other aspect of that issue . it be explain at the time why the Bill be split up , but I be pleased to have play a part and to have fulfil my commitment to get this legislation through the House . I be very grateful to our Clerk , Anne - Marie Griffiths , who have give excellent guidance along the way . I really want to thank the official from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as the Ministers and the shadow Ministers . I also thank my team , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) and the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) , who have help through the usual channel to progress this piece of legislation , which I think will be welcome across the House . once it get through the Lords , it be intend that the Act will commence automatically — three month after Royal Assent , I think — so that it be well in place in 2025 . I thank Mr Deputy Speaker and colleague who have speak in today ' s debate , as well . I will begin by talk about two principle : first , we want people to be able to enjoy the countryside . we be lucky to have it . it can help we keep well , both physically and mentally ; it support wildlife ; it be beautiful , of course ; and it be world - renowned . I have always be someone who enjoy the countryside — a countryside walk be a fantastic way of clear one ' s mind — but so much of it be accessible and available for we to enjoy only because farmer maintain it . I have previous and current family member who own farmland and keep livestock , and we all benefit from the work and effort that go into that . that bring I to the second principle , which be that enjoyment of the countryside have to be respectful . that be why I welcome the Bill that have be introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , undoubtedly use a wealth of experience gain from her distinguished service as the DEFRA Secretary of State . she have always demonstrate a common - sense approach when it come to balance issue such as this . one of the feature that so many people enjoy about our countryside be see farm animal , such as sheep and cow , graze peacefully as they pass by , but of course we be a nation of dog lover , so many people be not enjoy the countryside alone . sadly , not everyone who take their dog with they manage to do so responsibly , which can have terrible consequence . as have be mention , NFU mutual datum show that claim from dog attack on farm animal rise to more than £ 1 . 8 million in 2022 , and behind those financial claim be distress story of kill , injure or frightened livestock and farmer see animal for which they care deeply suffer unnecessarily . there be exist legislation aim at tackle this issue — the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , which we be amend today — but as the figure I have mention demonstrate , more need to be do . the NFU and other have long call for reform of the legislation , and it be welcome that we now have the opportunity to do that . let I now talk about some of the thing in the Bill that be particularly welcome . first , it widen the scope of the 1953 Act to include , for example , road and path . the movement of livestock along our country road be another particularly welcome feature of our countryside — many people have a funny story about be stick behind a move herd of cattle . that be something that we enjoy about our countryside , and it would not be the same without it , so the law should protect livestock in those circumstance as well . secondly , the Bill allow the police to seize a dog that they believe have be involve in an incident when the owner be not present . that be the kind of common - sense reform that be long overdue . thirdly , the Bill allow sample and evidence to be collect from dog and livestock . although police in urban area increasingly make use of CCTV , that sort of evidence be not often available in the countryside , so police need to make use of other evidence to prosecute people successfully . I be also pleased that , when enact , the Bill will enable any exist case to make use of the new power we be introduce — that be an additional positive feature . I know from my time as a volunteer policeman that so often a small minority of people be responsible for most crime , and I be sure that it be no different in this case . Most people enjoy the countryside responsibly , and most farmer understand that it be important that they get to do so , but we have to protect our countryside , and the farm animal that live in it be a fundamental part of it . as an MP who represent rural area and farmer , I particularly congratulate my right hon . friend on introduce this Bill . I have really welcome the opportunity to speak , even briefly , in support of it in the House today . I rise to support the Bill , and to congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on have bring it forward . I be very lucky to live in and represent a lovely , beautiful area of Lincolnshire that have gorgeous countryside . like many people , I like take my dog , Bonnie , for a walk through the countryside , but as a farmer ' s wife , I also recognise that it be a work landscape — that crop be be grow for food , and that livestock be be look after , too . Dog ownership have increase since lockdown . although most dog owner be responsible and most dog good - natured , research suggest that dog be now more likely than before to be leave off lead or out of sight . the natural behaviour of all dog be to chase . many people be unaware that if their dog chase a sheep , it may cause that sheep distress . they may not be aware that even if the dog do not catch the sheep , the simple fact of be chase can cause a pregnant ewe to miscarry her lamb or to die . not only do that have an emotional effect on sheep by cause they to suffer , but it cause an emotional and financial stress for the farmer , as we have hear , so I welcome these step to strengthen the law . as other have mention , education on the countryside code be important , and it should extend beyond the Bill to include litter and the closing of gate to keep livestock safe . I welcome the step to detect where crime have occur , as well as the unlimited nature of the fine , which will help to deter people from commit the crime in the first place and encourage they to look after their dog . I hope that the publicity that my right hon . friend have generate for the Bill will serve to provide educational opportunity . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . I do not think that I need to add to the comment that I make on Report . we think this be an important piece of legislation and we wish it well as it continue its progress through the other House with wholehearte support from both side . I call the Minister . I must start , of course , by congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on guide the Bill through the House , and by thank she for all her detailed work , include the holding of roundtable with farmer and country people in her constituency , which be absolutely the right thing to do in order to hear about the matter from the horse ' s mouth . I also thank the Opposition for support the Bill — it be great to sing from the same hymn sheet once or twice — and everybody else who have contribute today . we have hear really useful input from member , who have use knowledge from their own constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) mention countryside access , which be such an important point , as I say on Report . the Bill will also help to educate people and give they an understanding about how to respect the workplace of farmer while enjoy the countryside . the workplace of farmer be mention by our own farmer ' s wife and doctor , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . she say , importantly , that this be not just about the straight slaughter of animal ; it be about the frightening , terrifying situation that can arise among a flock of sheep , say , which might later abort or die . that be cover in the Bill through particular reference to the situation at large in relation to dog and sheep . to summarise , we know that livestock worrying and attack on livestock can have terrible impact . I do not think that a week go by when I do not open Farmers Weekly or Farmers Guardian and see a ghastly picture of such incident . I be especially proud to be the Minister respond today , because I be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on animal welfare , which do that first report about livestock worry in 2017 . I think that a lot of the datum have gradually feed into the legislation as we have move it along . the APPG report then that 34 , 000 livestock worrying incident occur every year , so it be a significant problem . not only be it terrify in term of animal welfare , but it have a big economic cost : an estimate £ 2 . 4 million a year be lose through destroy animal kill by dog . that be why the Bill be so important . it will support our commitment to ensure that new power be available to the police so that they can respond effectively to the worrying or attacking of livestock by dog . as my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal say — she do so much on this when she be at DEFRA — the Government be absolutely committed to the animal welfare agenda outline in our 2021 action plan . we have a proud record of deliver on that agenda through a raft of measure bring through in a range of way . we have increase penalty for animal cruelty , extend the Ivory Act 2018 to include more endanger specie , pass the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 , introduce microchippe for cat , ban glue trap , introduce new power for hare course , ban the trade in shark fin and protect service animal via Finn ' s law . there be a whole list , and people in this Chamber have be involve in many of those piece of legislation . it be a very proud record . the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill have just pass Third reading in the House of Lords , and we be support Bills that will deliver a new offence of pet abduction , and crack down on puppy smuggling . hear , hear . loud cheer from behind I . we be make great progress on deliver so many of those measure that be originally intend in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . I think the record show , as do today ' s Bill , that the Government be dedicate and commit to improve animal welfare . indeed , we have the high welfare score of the G7 , accord to the World Animal Protection index . that be something of which the Government should be proud . I know that Mr Deputy Speaker be a great animal lover as well , so this be very pertinent to he . we have give the Bill a thorough review today . it will give much add protection to our valuable livestock , and will send important signal to the public regard access to the countryside with a dog . nothing more remain than to thank everybody involve — all of the official who have work so hard on the Bill and help to guide it through both House , and the Opposition for their support . More thank also go to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal . I be delighted to support the Bill , and I look forward to see it on the statute book . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . I congratulate the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal on take her Bill through the House . secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . secure 16 to 19 academy , otherwise know as secure school , be an innovative new form of custody for child and young people that the 2019 manifesto commit to trialle . they will be school with security , rather than prison with education . normally when child commit an offence , they be manage in the community with community sentence , but sometimes the offence commit be so awful or the offending be so frequent that a custodial sentence be necessary . thankfully , that be not common ; there be currently around 530 child in the secure estate , and the House may be interested to know that few than 12 of they at any time in the last year have be female child . many of these child have significant social , emotional or mental health issue , which be root cause of some of the offend behaviour . even if they have very long sentence , they will come out into the community at a relatively young age , which mean that they will have a long time free to contribute to society if they can be effectively give great rehabilitation opportunity in prison . in Sleaford , we have a secure child ' s home that take young child into a small environment and give they a well chance of turn their life around . the first secure school will be build in Medway in Kent , provide education to a small number of young people — up to 49 of they — and give they a good opportunity to bring themselves on to the straight and narrow . the Government have already act , through the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , to establish the secure 16 to 19 academy in legislation , and this Bill make further necessary amendment to the Academies Act 2010 to make specific provision relevant to the establishment of new secure school , as oppose to other type of academy . the change propose cover the termination period in which the Government continue to fund the secure school should there be a need to end a funding agreement into which they have enter . in general , normal academy would have a seven - year period , but the Bill will reduce that to two for the secure estate . the seven year be calculate on the basis that student would normally spend seven year at a school , but in the case of secure school , the sentence vary considerably , and the amount of time that a child spend in such an establishment be determine primarily by their legal status . the Bill will enable the Government to prioritise value for money , which we would expect a Conservative Government to continue to do . it will also provide more flexibility should there be any need to terminate a funding agreement with a school provider . for such an important part of our vision for the future of the youth custody estate , it be important that we have efficient process for open new school . the Bill will modify the consultation requirement in the 2010 Act so that they do not apply to secure school , and help future secure school to open with minimal delay . for example , anyone who want to open an academy be require to consider the impact that it will have on pupil number in other local school , but clearly that be not a relevant consideration for a secure school . engagement with local community be a key part of the Ministry of Justice selection process for new custodial site . the Bill give provider the opportunity to engage with their local community , ensure a more constructive consultation process that will seek to consult on how the secure school work with local partner . it should be note that a proposal to build an entirely new site would of course go through the regular planning procedure too . by support the Bill , the House have an opportunity to tailor the legislative framework for secure school , thereby create well service and strengthen the impact of secure school on the life of child in the justice system . I have be most grateful to hon . member across the House for their support and value contribution during the Bill ' s passage so far . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) and for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) , my hon . friend the Members for Hartlepool ( Jill Mortimer ) and for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , the hon . member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) and for Neath ( Christina Rees ) , and the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) for participate in the Bill Committee . I thank in particular my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire and the hon . member for Neath for their value contribution in Committee . I also thank the Ministry of Justice official who have be so helpful to I with the Bill ; the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , for his support with it ; Anne - Marie Griffiths in the Public Bill Office ; and my great team for Sleaford and North Hykeham . I hope I have address the aim of the Bill and the positive impact it can have , and I be proud to move its Third Reading . I be conscious that this be a small Bill , but it be an important one . it recognise the need to make sure that the legislation be up to date and do not limit the opportunity for secure academy to proceed . I have two prison in my constituency , and during my time as an MP one of they have be a young offender institution . Warren Hill be now a category c prison , but when I visit it as a YOI , I see how important it be to have that educational ethos . I be conscious that young people who be house in yoi have often perform pretty horrific crime , but I think there be an opportunity with this Bill to expand the focus on education while maintain aspect of the relevant category . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) on take on what be perhaps a less attractive area of legislation , but one in which important thing need to be do . I know that her Bill , if it fly through the Lords as it have through the Commons , will be a really good legacy for she and for think about the future of young child . I call the Opposition spokesperson . may I start by congratulate the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) on secure this Bill and on her speech ? like other , I have a long - stand interest in youth justice , have serve on the Justice Committee , but also because I have a young offender institution in my constituency , which I have visit on many occasion . reform to youth justice be essential , and we support the measure in the Bill . the hon . member be right that secure school — school with security rather than prison with education — be an innovative form of custody for child and young people . the 2016 Taylor report lay out why we need to reimagine how we care for child who commit offence serious enough to warrant their detention in custody . the Government commit that year to phase out young offender institution and secure training centre , and to replace they with a network of secure school , since rename secure 16 to 19 academy . medium report today reference the first secure school be set to open in Medway on the site of the Medway secure training centre , which be set to house 49 child age 12 to 18 who be sentence or remand to custody by the court . however , as the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham know , the journey have be beset by delay . the Public Accounts Committee report in 2022 say that the first secure school have not yet open more than six year after it be recommend , and cost have indeed spiral — from an estimate original £ 4 . 9 million , I think , to £ 40 million — because of unexpected additional requirement that have not be factor in . the first secure school be originally set to open by autumn 2020 , as the Public Accounts Committee identify ; the former Medway STC site be then to open by November 2023 , but be again delay to February 2024 , and it be still yet to open . the main point , with which I be sure the hon . Lady will agree , be that we need effective planning and risk management to be much well than we have see to date in the history of the secure school implementation . I will make a couple of further comment in that regard , but will first make our comment on the propose change , which we support . we support the reduction of the minimum notice period ; as have be mention , the seven - year termination period be clearly intend for continuity of education provision for those who might be in year 7 who might expect to be able to go on to year 13 in their school . it be also right to say that secure school be not compete with other school in their area . on the third amendment , on consultation with appropriate person on how the school will work with local partner , the hon . Lady make an important distinction between where there might be new development to go through a full planning process and where an exist facility may be adapt or refurbish . on the latter , I hope that the hon . Lady will agree that we want people to be confident in these school and to feel engaged in what be happen in their community . it be important that we have learn and good practice from the implementation of the first secure school as well , and that we keep under review the way in which community be be engage . I hope the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham will also agree — perhaps she will comment on this — that it be important to keep under review the continuity and quality of the education be provide . as she say , the child go into these secure school may be there for a period of month , or they may be there for long . bear in mind there have to be an assessment of their education on entry , what consideration be there for the continuity and quality of that education , as well as the maintenance of relationship with family ? child as young as 12 be be care for in these secure school — that be very young . how will visit arrangement and temporary release arrangement be determine ? it be important that risk assessment be follow so that family and community continue to have confidence in the reform as they be roll out . I will also make a point on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , who would have speak in this debate , about level of violence . how would they be consider on the youth estate , and how would they be manage in secure school to ensure confidence ? I want to raise two important matter . the first be around capacity and the implication of a lack of capacity on the quality of provision . base on analysis of datum from the Department for Education , Article 39 say : " at any one time , around 25 child each day be wait for a secure child ' s home place and around 20 be place by … local authority in scottish secure unit due to the lack of available place . the … number of secure child ' s home place mean that , even when child get a place , " they be likely to end up live far away from home . give the severe shortage of place in secure home , and although the first secure 16 - to - 19 academy be set to be run by Oasis , there be no guarantee that , with the grow pressure to create place as we see the reform continue , other quality education provider with the necessary expertise across both education and justice , youth justice in particular , will come forward . I hope the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham will agree that we need to monitor how we build capacity , otherwise the outcome will be to sacrifice the quality of provision for child against the pressure to create place . I would be grateful for her comment on that . the second challenge be about rehabilitation , to which the hon . Lady refer , and prevention . at the moment , there be no cohesive plan to stop young people pick up knife , which be why Labour have announce a Young Futures programme that would require new local partnership to identify the young people most at risk of knife crime and to build a package of support to prevent they from ever offend . this will draw on up to £ 100 million a year , base on combine exist commitment to fund new youth mentor and mental health hub in every community , youth worker in pupil referral unit and A & E , and a programme of public sector reform to deliver a target programme in every area . she may have broadly consider this in relation to her amendment on community engagement , but the community engagement of secure academy provider may be important to wide community youth crime prevention . I congratulate the hon . Lady on this important Bill , which I wish every success as it continue its passage through the House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for her excellent work on this important Bill , and for navigate it to this point . it be to her great credit that the Bill have such support . it be a sad reality that a small number of child commit offence so serious that there be no option other than to deprive they of their liberty in order to protect the public . it be the Government ' s responsibility to ensure that they receive the appropriate support to prepare they for their eventual release and to turn their life around . as the House will be aware , Charlie Taylor publish his landmark review of the youth justice system in 2016 . the report make a number of important recommendation , include on the need to reimagine how we care for child who commit serious enough offence to warrant detain they in custody . his proposal be to create a new type of custodial environment , focus on the delivery of education , to offer child the opportunity to gain the skill and qualification necessary to prepare they for their release into the community . the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 establish secure school in legislation as secure 16 - to - 19 academy , under both the Academies Act 2010 and the Children ' s Homes ( England ) Regulations 2015 . the first ever secure school , Oasis Restore , be in the process of ofsted registration and hope to welcome child in the very near future . the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , visit the site yesterday to see for himself the impressive progress make on the school ' s facility . as work have continue , and as we near the opening of the first ever secure school , this Bill be now need to ensure that the specific provision of the Academies Act be relevant to secure 16 - to - 19 academy . why do we need secure school ? the number of child in custody have fall drastically in recent year , with 82 % few child under the age of 18 in custody than in 2010 . it be right that we should deprive child of their liberty only as a last resort , and the decline have rightly be commend as a success of the youth justice system . however , for child who commit the most serious crime , there remain a need to protect the public by detain they in custody . the child now in custody be among the most complex and vulnerable in society , and they present with very challenging behaviour . the majority have commit violence - relate offence and be much more likely to reoffend upon release than adult prisoner . the late government statistic show that 62 % of child release from custody go on to reoffend within a year . secure school be a necessary change to break this cycle of reoffende . the child in custody be also more likely than their peer to have have a disrupt education . government analysis show that around 90 % of child sentence to custody have a record of persistent absence . that mean that these child have lose out on month or year - worth of learning . the evidence about the importance of education as a preventive factor in childhood offending be clear . secure school offer these child an opportunity to re - engage with education and make the most of their potential . the secure school model have be develop in accordance with the well available evidence of what work in address the underlie cause of youth offend . that be why secure school offer small and homely environment , with healthcare and education at their heart . in secure school , child and young people will engage with integrate care service , include health and education , tailor to their individual need . on entry , each young person will have a full assessment of their need , to establish a baseline against which progress can be measure and to ensure that any unmet health and special education need be identify . they will have personalise programme that build on their strength and develop their potential , with the use of evidence - base intervention that help they to build resilience and develop vital skill that will help they in the future . curriculum delivery will take place in appropriately sized group , include through one - to - one intervention where need . child in secure school will have the opportunity to make educational progress on a par with that of their peer in mainstream school , proportionate to the length of their sentence . secure school will work closely with youth offend team , with education , health and other community service provider and with young people ' s family where appropriate . planning for resettlement will start when a young person enter a secure school and will be adapt to support transition to the adult estate where appropriate . the Government support the Bill , because secure school be a landmark reform in youth custody that , as have be mention , will help to reduce reoffende and ultimately lead to few victim of youth crime , thereby protect the public . however , it be only by ensure that secure school function well , with proportionate termination measure , and appropriate and efficient process for open new school , that we will achieve that goal . in closing , I would like to thank the Opposition for their support for my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham , and also official at the Ministry of Justice for support she in prepare the Bill . I reiterate my thank to my hon . friend for bring it before the House . I also reiterate with great pleasure that the Government support this important Bill . I wish it well in its progress in the other place . I rise to thank again those who have help with the passage of the Bill . in Sleaford , we have a secure child ' s home that run a small unit provide great education and rehabilitative care to those young people . I welcome the fact that the Bill will help to extend that educational and holistic approach to help young people to turn their life around . I again congratulate the hon . Lady on pilot her Bill through the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Bill on school attendance be important to our nation ' s child and to their future . at time when there be so much discord in politic , it have be truly uplifting to know that , when it come to our child , even Members of Parliament can agree with each other and do the right thing . I want to start by thank all colleague , from all party , for their unanimous support for the Bill at every stage of its proceeding through the House . as a mum , I always want my child to have a wide range of choice available to they , so that they could choose the good opportunity for their future . get five good gcse give a teenager a lot of choice . with these grade , they can do a - level , t - level or an apprenticeship . without they , choice suddenly become much more limited . one of the school in my constituency analyse the performance of two identical cohort of student . of the group who have attend 95 % to 100 % of the time , 82 % get five good gcse ; about five in 30 child do not . of the group who have attend between 90 % and 95 % of the time , only 68 % of they get good gcse ; that mean that 10 out of 30 do not get good gcse . that show how even a tiny drop in attendance can have long - last consequence for our child . the Children ' s Commissioner find that three quarter of child who be rarely absent from school receive five good grade at GCSE include in English and math , but of those who be persistently absent — miss 10 % or more of their school time — only one in three be meet that standard . for child who be severely absent , only one in 20 be do so . that be why we be all so correct in be so concerned about the rise in school absence . before I speak about absence , I want to say that we should be extraordinarily proud of our nation ' s young people . child in England now rank 11th in the world for math and 13th for reading , whereas back in 2010 , when today ' s school leaver be just start out in reception , the same league table place the equivalent cohort of child 27th for math and 25th for read . I be really proud that every single school in my Chelmsford constituency be now rank " good " or " outstanding " ; 14 year ago under Labour , one in three kid in my constituency have to go to school that be not even " good " . let we be proud of our kid , but absence be a really challenging issue . the pandemic significantly disrupt school attendance level , not just here but across the world . about one in five pupil in England be still miss the equivalent of half a day or more of lesson a week . that mean that over a million child be miss significant amount of their education . that be limit not only their education but their choice , their chance to make friendship and take part in enrichment activity , as well as so many other issue that be so important for their behaviour . we know that the reason for absence from school can be multiple and complex . such issue include support for those with special educational need and disability , anxiety or mental health issue . if a child ' s SEND need be unmet , that can lead to their miss out on their education . change in attitude towards minor ailment may be another drive force behind the rise in absence . I say to parent , who be now much more likely to keep their child at home for minor illness such as cough or cold than before the pandemic , that they should please be aware that in most case child be well off at school even if they have a minor ailment . for the most vulnerable pupil , regular attendance be also a really important protective factor . that be why I be very concerned to hear from an expert on alternative provision that attendance have drop below 60 % for the first time in some of the setting he cover . we know that regular absence from school can expose young people to harm such as be draw into crime or serious violence . some commentator have note that absence be high among child on free school meal , but one multi - academy trust leader I speak to who have do a lot of research at his school suggest that be not the case for all ethnic group . those school he look at with a high proportion of pupil with English as a second language have a much high level of attendance than school cohort with a high proportion of british white student . that really need further investigation . another head of a multi - academy trust with school in my area say there have be an uptick in poor attendance particularly among girl in year 8 to 10 . many other school leader have confirm similar trend and suggest that that may be link to lower mental wellbeing and self - esteem . those of we who attend Tuesday ' s Westminster Hall debate on the impact of social medium and screen time — particularly on teenager and particularly on girl — note the link between poor mental health among teenage girl and social medium , and the further link between poor mental health and high anxiety and miss school . it be deeply concern . there have also be story in the press recently about the link , in some family , between the increase in hybrid working and child miss school . as a mum , I completely understand how much more difficult it must be to persuade a sometimes reluctant child to go to school if you yourself be work from home on the day in question . all those issue be important , but my Bill will make a significant difference . it will mean that every council will have to use its service to help to remove the barrier face by some child . it will mean that every school in the country will need to publicise a detailed attendance policy and share it with parent , pupil and carer . all school and local authority will have to follow good practice guidance on school attendance , which have put a great deal of emphasis on the importance of early help and multidisciplinary support . we know that some child and some parent face specific challenge when it come to school attendance , such as transport need or special educational need , and the guidance cover those in detail . school will be require to have a name attendance champion , and family will be aware of the expectation incumbent on they before choose secondary school . local authority will need to meet representative of each school regularly , and together they will need to discuss case in which multi - agency support be need . in that event they will need to work with the agency to provide that support , especially in case of persistent or severe absence . the Bill provide a " support first " approach for family to help to ensure that child attend school regularly . this be very simple but crucial legislation . I hope it will help to transform the life of all child and young people ; I hope it will reduce the unfairness whereby different amount of support be available to family in different part of the country by provide for a more consistent approach ; and I hope it will open up a new conversation on the timing of holiday . I entirely understand the pressure on family to take time off for family holiday in term time because it be generally much cheap , but if a child do miss out on school for that reason , it will have an impact on that child ' s education and life choice , and it will not help the child in the long term . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s Bill , and I agree with she that attendance be vital to a child ' s education . she have make an important point about the effect that go on holiday in term time can have on an individual pupil , but do she agree that if pupil be miss , that will have an effect on the rest of the class , and that it be not fair on the teacher or the support staff who may have to work extra hard to ensure that the child who be missing can catch up without the whole class be affect ? as ever , my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head . some child need to take time off school because , for instance , they have appendicitis and be have an operation . teacher understand that , and will work with child in that position to help they to catch up . however , we be now see an increase number of child take time off school — perhaps because it be a Monday or a Friday and they be extend a weekend and perhaps because a parent be work from home . it be impossible for the teacher to help so many child to catch up . they just can not , much as they would want to . all those miss afternoon and miss morning add up to a loss of learning . not only do that hit child ' s ability to get good gcse , but teacher have explain to I that if it happen in the early year it can become an ongoing behaviour . we might think , " oh , it really doesn ' t matter , they ' re not in an exam year , " but it build in the habit and it build in with the class , so it be crucial . in order to try to solve the holiday issue , I would like to see school use the power they already have to vary their term time a bit , which might give more family the opportunity to avoid peak season option . perhaps we will see more regional change : for example , different part of Germany have slightly stagger school holiday so that not all the country be try to go to the beach at the same time . I have discuss with some of the headteacher in my constituency whether we could have an Essex approach . we have a slightly different February half - term in Essex : our Essex child have their February half - term a week after the rest of the country , which give family a bit more flexibility . have a regional approach mean that , for family who have primary school kid at one school and secondary school kid at another , the family school holiday still overlap . I would like to see more work do by school with their local authority to see whether they can give a bit more of that flexibility . come back to the Bill , I say a big thank you to all the right hon . and hon . member who take time to sit on the Bill Committee and to the Education Committee for its support . the Children ' s Commissioner deserve an enormous amount of thank for the work she have do on this issue , and particularly from I for the roundtable of real expert that she bring together , include child ' s mental health charity , multi - academy trust , local authority expert and other in this area . the Centre for Social Justice have also look in depth at the impact that miss school be have on our child . I also thank the Schools Minister , especially for come to visit a school in Chelmsford to hear directly from staff and student about this issue , and I thank the exceptional team at the Department for Education , as well as the staff in this House , for their very hard work on the Bill . to conclude , we know that , for most child , the good place to be be in school , where they be surround by the support of their friend and teacher . we know that child will invariably fall behind if they miss time in the classroom , no matter how much teacher and other try to help they to catch up . we know that go to school be important not just for our child ' s education , but for their wellbeing , wide development and mental health . sadly , we also know that for many child the pandemic bring loneliness , loss of communication , loss of face - to - face time with their friend and loss of laughter — and for some child , those loss have have a lasting impact . the Bill will not be a magic wand , and it will not undo all the harm cause by covid , but it be a very firm step in a happy and more positive direction . I congratulate my right hon . friend and fellow Essex MP the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on her excellent Bill and on the skilful way she have guide it through this place . I be very disappointed not to be there in the Bill Committee , but I be delighted to be here to support she and her Bill on Third Reading . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that education be the good way to change our child ' s future and thereby our country ' s future , give all our child the opportunity to excel and to develop their true potential . she be right to point out that we have make enormous stride with education , particularly under this Government and over the last 14 year , to a point where we now have the good reader in the western world . she point out how we have race up the PISA table ; we now rank 11th in the world for math and 13th for read worldwide . however , I be deeply concerned last year to see report suggest that , in Southend , a fifth of school pupil be miss 10 % of their lesson over the course of a year . the most recent datum from Southend Learning Network suggest that , in primary school , persistent absence sit at 5 . 7 % , just above the national average of 5 . 4 % . in secondary school , persistent absence be 7 % , which be below the national average of 8 . 7 % . that be good news , but both those figure be still too high . as my right hon . friend eloquently demonstrate , only a small diminution in attendance can have a significant impact on exam result and , therefore , pupil ' ability to go on and fulfil their potential . that be why I welcome the action that she have take . she highlight how good attendance require a holistic approach , involve school , family , local authority and other local partner , which I wholeheartedly agree with . I also agree with the view of the Education Committee , of which I be a member , that the Department for Education ' s 2022 guidance , " work together to improve school attendance " should be put on a statutory footing . the Bill take step to ensure that that happen . this be an excellent bill , and I be delighted that it enjoy cross - party support . it be a positive step forward in enable child to get the support they need and help they not only to return but to stay in school . again , I thank my right hon . friend for introduce it . it have my full support . I hope to see it pass today and make swift progress through the other place , so that we can get it on the statute book as soon as possible . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on her Bill and her speech . I think we all agree that the current poor attendance constitute a crisis that must be address as a matter of urgency . early this year , Labour table an Opposition day motion contain a range of possible way to address the problem , but it be unfortunate that the long - term plan to deal with the school attendance crisis be vote down by Conservatives . labour support the Bill but , as the right hon . Lady acknowledge , it be a first step and not a magic wand . she be right to lay out the impact of absence on attainment , why we need to be concern about that and the long - term impact of absence on child ' s opportunity . it be important that our system all work together to support child to stay in school , which be why we welcome clause 1 , which introduce a duty on local authority and clarify their role in promote regular attendance and reduce absence . clause 2 be also important , as it include particular that school must include in their attendance policy , with guidance on how they should be issue and communicate to parent . the measure be welcome and I hope that they will have a positive impact on the situation in our school . I pay tribute to the think - tank and mother who have be involve in many discussion on how we tackle this issue across the House . the right hon . Lady also mention some way in which there could be variation in the school holiday , which could support great attendance where holiday may be part of the challenge . in my constituency , I have talk to school about the variation they have have , with two week for an extended half - term in autumn and one week less in summer , which they say have have a positive impact on engagement and support for learn . proper intervention be vital to get child back into the classroom . as the right hon . Lady mention , the figure be stark . last year , under this Government , 21 . 2 % of child be persistently absent from school . that be more than one in five , and double the figure just six year early . the number of child miss half their lesson have rocket , too . in my local authority of Hounslow , it have more than double in just six year . other area have even high number . how can we properly set up a child for the future if they be miss every other lesson in school ? the Labour party firmly believe that every child matter and that every day at school matter . fix - penalty notice for school absence must be a part of the system , but they be not the answer alone . there be a view , which the right hon . Lady may have , on guidance in relation to penalty where child may be undergo assessment for education , health and care plan , but it be important that we look at the wide support . that be why we in the Labour party have set out a long - term plan that look in the round at the issue cause absence and persistent absence , include support school with the recruitment , which we have announce and commit to , of 6 , 500 new teacher . we will roll out free breakfast club in every primary school . evidence show that they improve child ' s learning and development , and they have a positive impact on attendance and behaviour . it be also vital to address the mental health crisis that our child be face . mental ill health be a key barrier to learning and attendance , yet child be remain on long child and adolescent mental health service waiting list , unable to access the support they need . the waiting list for assessment be over two year in many instance . we would recruit thousand of new staff to bring down those waiting list and put specialist mental health professional in school and community hub , so that child can get the help they need , solve problem before they get bad . I commend my hon . friend for her support for further intervention to support child and young people face mental health difficulty . it be an issue raise frequently in many mp ' surgery , include in mine , so I be very grateful for her support in this important area . I thank my hon . friend for that point . the broad point he be also make be that school must have that support , because it be a part of how they can tackle absence in school . that be why we need to tackle this issue head - on and not let it spiral far out of control . child be not engage with the curriculum and assessment system , which have be describe to we — I also speak on behalf of the shadow school Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) — as " joyless " and " narrow " . the UK now have the second low average life satisfaction of 15 - year - old in the OECD . opportunity for music , art , sport and drama , as well as for discussion and debate , be often squeeze . our curriculum and assessment review would look at deliver a broad curriculum that prepare child for the future , reflect child ' s desire for learn , as well as reflect issue and diversity in our society . child ' s early speech and language development have also suffer over the past few year , and covid contribute other stress and anxiety . get it right at an early stage will lead to well engagement throughout school life . we would equip primary school with fund to deliver evidence - base early language intervention . finally , we would introduce a " child not in school " register to ensure that child who be not be teach in a school environment do not fall through the gap . today ' s Bill be extremely important and I again congratulate the right hon . member for Chelmsford . I wish it well as it move through the other place , but it be important to acknowledge that it shine a spotlight on the Government ' s lack of action to deal with the crisis in our school . significantly , that be highlight by Sir Kevan Collins when he resign as education recovery commissioner in 2021 . in describe the Government ' s catch - up plan as " feeble " , he highlight how there be not the intervention that we need to secure our child ' s future effectively . that be why we need much more urgent action from Ministers on how they intend to tackle this problem . tinker around the edge simply will not do . we need a proper long - term plan , and if the Government will not deliver it , despite the right hon . Lady ' s good effort , the next Labour Government will do so . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate and outline the Government ' s view about the importance of deliver this provision . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) for her work on the Bill , and congratulate she on the manner in which she have manage to take it through the House and gather so much cross - party support . this be clearly a subject of huge importance to she . she talk passionately about the impact that the Bill will have in her constituency and across the country , and about how her experience as a mother help to shape her view about the importance of get this issue right . I assure she that it be equally as important to I and to the Government more widely . all evidence point to school as the good place for child ' s attainment , wellbeing and development . this important Bill can play a crucial role in ensure that all child attend regularly , and I be delighted to lend the Government ' s support to it today . it have be clear through the passage of the Bill , as my right hon . friend and the Schools Minister explain , that there have be significant cross - party support and co - operation at every stage . we thank hon . member for that , include those on the Opposition Front Bench ; it speak volume about the way that my right hon . friend have manage to steer this important Bill through the House . throughout its passage , member have take time to contribute and share experience and view about how important this issue be , and we hear strong example of the work that school and local authority be do to improve attendance . we must ensure that that work continue and expand across the country . the Government support the Bill , because we want to give parent clarity and to level up standard across all part of England — across all 24 , 000 school and 153 local authority , and their 9 million pupil . thank to the incredible work of those school and council , we be start to see sign of improvement . last academic year , 440 , 000 few pupil be persistently absent or not attend than in the previous year , and 375 , 000 more child be in school almost every day — 95 % of possible session — compare with the year before . that second figure be base on improvement across the country across all phase , include key vulnerable cohort such as child with special educational need or those in receipt of free school meal . prior to the pandemic , we gradually reduce persistent absence from 17 . 4 % in the school year that end in 2010 , to about 10 % or 11 % in the second half of the decade , up until the point at which covid strike . we be determined to get back there as quickly as we can , but there be furth to go and the Bill will play an important part in that . there be still area of the country where family can not access the support they need , but by place requirement in primary legislation for local authority to exercise their function with a view to promote attendance , for school to publicise an attendance policy , and for both to have regard to Department for Education guidance in do so , we be take another key step forward in ensure consistency . my right hon . friend have be work closely with the Schools Minister , and he detail on Second Reading and in Committee the comprehensive strategy that we have in place to support school and council to meet their expectation , whether that be through attendance hub , attendance adviser , or the use of improve and groundbreake datum . I will not go over all that again , but we will continue to ensure that all that support still apply and be available to school and council . my right hon . friend raise an important point about holiday and staggering term time , and I completely agree with a number of the point she make . of course , we absolutely sympathise with family who want to avoid more expensive period , but we be clear that pupil should not miss school for term - time holiday , which cause unnecessary disruption to learn and make it hard for teacher to plan lesson and cover the curriculum . obviously , those school holiday be not determine at national level : they be set by local school and , depend on the type of school , by local authority too . in our view , those institution be well place to make those decision , but I know they will take into account some of the point that my right hon . friend raise during her remark , which I think be very well make . some point be also raise by the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) . as I have try to emphasise in my remark , we be commit to tackle this issue through a cross - cut attendance strategy , alongside wide covid - recovery effort . our programme be aim at support the most vulnerable child , whether that be by invest billion of pound to expand and transform NHS mental health service or by invest £ 40 million in our national school breakfast programme , which provide free breakfast to child in school in disadvantaged area . we be also provide wide and comprehensive support for school — whether through the local government finance settlement , the additional £ 200 million support Families programme , or £ 2 . 6 billion until 2025 through the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan — and be provide £ 200 million for the holiday activity and food programme , too . this be a hugely important Bill , and my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford have do a huge service to pupil up and down the country , include those in her constituency , by bring it forward . be in school have never be more valuable than it be now , with standard continue to rise through the hard work of teacher . my right hon . Friend refer to the rocketing of school ' performance : 90 % be now good or outstanding , up from 68 % under the last Labour Government . we have the fourth good primary school reader in the world , and our secondary school child have rise from 27th to 11th in math — that be a transformation in standard and achievement — and from 25th to 13th in reading . I be very strike by the comment that the Minister be make about the improvement in school . will he congratulate the school in Staffordshire Moorlands , where since 2010 , we have go from few than 70 % of school be good or outstanding to nearly 90 % now ? my right hon . friend ' s intervention demonstrate the on - the - ground importance of the improvement in standard that we have see over recent year . I have no doubt that that be down to the tremendous hard work of teacher , the local authority , parent and student , and I know that my right hon . friend have be a strong champion of improve school performance . of course , it be not just in Staffordshire ; all around the country we be see that drive for standard and rocket international comparison . I thank she for raise that point ; she be absolutely right to do so . crucially , this Bill will help to make sure that every young person and their family , whatever their background and wherever they be in the country , receive the support they need to be in school , to make sure they be attend , and to benefit from the transformation in educational standard that we have see over the past few year . I sincerely thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution today ; my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) speak passionately about the importance of deliver this Bill , and I thank she for her contribution . I know that this issue be important to she , and one that she have raise many time with Ministers and with my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford . I think my hon . Friend speak very eloquently about the importance of deliver this Bill and its value to her constituent . finally , I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford on bring forward this important Bill , which the Government be delighted to support . I commend it to the House . with the leave of the House , I again thank everybody who have take part during the passage of this Bill . I may have be a little modest . this be a very short Bill — it be only a couple of page long — but the guidance that it will make statutory be enormously detailed and wide - ranging . that be why make that guidance statutory be the no . 1 recommendation of the Education Select Committee , and the no . 1 ask from the Children ' s Commissioner and many other . I remember the Opposition day debate to which the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) refer . I remember ask the shadow Schools Minister , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , whether she would support my Bill on that day , and she decline to do so . we have introduce this legislation in the form of a private Member ' s Bill ; in order to do so , I have to join the back of the queue , because my name do not come up in the ballot . I remind colleague that not just one but four Labour Members be in the top five of the ballot for private member ' Bills . if the Labour party really want to do something great for our child , it would have take the Bill through this route itself . Labour member say that they have a plan for our child , but we can see that they have not . otherwise , they would have deliver this Bill themselves . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . congratulation to the right hon . Lady . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . clause 1 ( a ) be the central and crucial provision of the Bill , so I shall briefly explain its purpose and why it be necessary . before a company can operate a satellite in orbit or carry out a launch mission from the UK , it must first obtain a spaceflight operator licence under the Space Industry Act 2018 . the licence process ensure that spaceflight activity be undertake safely , securely and in accordance with the UK ' s international obligation . under United Nations space treaty , the state be ultimately liable for any damage or injury that may be cause by its space activity — even those undertake by commercial space operator . the 2018 Act therefore contain provision to help mitigate potential cost to UK taxpayer arise from UK commercial spaceflight activity . the provision include the power to incorporate licence condition require operator to hold insurance and , under section 36 of that Act , to indemnify the UK Government and other name public body against any claim bring against the government or body in respect of damage or loss . it be recognise , however , that place unlimited liability on commercial space activity would be a barrier to operate in the UK . other space nation , such as France and the United States , limit liability or provide a state guarantee for the launch activity that take place from their territory . section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act currently provide a power to specify a limit on the amount of the licensee ' s liability to indemnify under section 36 . current Government policy be that the regulator should use those power to specify a limit on operator liability in the licence so that no operator will face unlimited liability . that policy be set out in guidance , and I understand that all spaceflight operator licence issue to date under the 2018 Act contain a limit on the amount of liability . however , those in the industry have make clear , in response to consultation and in other forum , that they would welcome the legal certainty that they will not face unlimited liability when launch or operate a satellite from the UK . clause 1 ( a ) amend section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act by replace " may " with " must " . that will change section 12 ( 2 ) from be a discretionary power to a mandatory requirement by specify a limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability under section 36 in respect of the licence . clause 1 ( a ) be a key regulatory improvement to the 2018 Act . it will provide assurance to investor that limit on the amount of an operator ' s liability to indemnify Government and other name body will be include in licence . however , the exist provision in legislation about the circumstance in which the limit on the amount of liability do not apply will continue to have effect . they include circumstance in which an operator be liable in gross negligence or wilful misconduct , or in which damage or loss be cause by non - compliance by the operator with its licence condition , the requirement of the 2018 Act , or regulation . clause 1 ( b ) contain a minor but necessary consequential amendment to section 36 of the 2018 Act . overall , clause 1 meet a key request from the sector . it will also address a recommendation make by the Taskforce on Innovation , Growth and Regulatory Reform . the amendment make by clause 1 be consistent with Government policy , which be design to support and grow the UK ' s commercial space sector . by set a clear requirement in law for a limit on operator liability in the licence , the clause will provide UK industry and those look to invest in the UK with great certainty , and carry more force than reliance on policy statement and guidance . as we convene for Third Reading of this vital Bill , I urge colleague across the House to consider the profound impact it will have on safeguard british industrial and business interest in the burgeon field of space and spaceflight . the Bill seek to address critical uncertainty surround liability and indemnity for our space industry , provide much - need clarity for current and prospective spaceflight operator and investor alike . I congratulate my hon . friend on his Bill . will he confirm that it will give the UK a real competitive advantage in the space industry ? it seem to I that it will . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . I can confirm that the Bill will set we on par with the United States and France , our friend and probably our main competitor in this important arena . the space industry be already worth £ 17 . 5 billion a year , and it be estimate that these measure will add ten of billion over the come decade or more . my right hon . friend make a really important point ; the Bill will make we competitive in an area where , currently , we be not quite there . I congratulate my hon . friend on Third Reading of his Bill , which will make a huge difference to the space industry . do he agree that it be imperative , as we move through the 21st century , that we encourage more woman and girl to consider take up the skill and employment opportunity that the space industry offer ? sadly , to date the industry have be too male focused . if we be go to pass Bills like this that give the industry the confidence to expand , hopefully we will be able to encourage more woman and girl to consider a career in the space industry . my hon . friend make an excellent point . the Bill will help provide certainty for our space industry for many year to come . of course , we need all the talent that we can provide in this country . I completely agree that we want more girl go into science , technology , engineering and math , and consider a career in this fantastic , relatively new industry . by amend section 12 ( 2 ) of the Space Industry Act 2018 , the Bill will firmly establish in law the imperative that all spaceflight operator licence will have a define limit on liability . such clarity will not only fulfil a long - stand demand from the sector , but ensure that our regulatory framework align with international standard and good practice . in an era when commercial space activity be poise for the huge growth that I have just mention , the Bill be a decisive step towards foster a competitive and thriving space industry on our shore . member from Cornwall and Scotland in particular will know the benefit of that , with our new spaceport . mandate specific liability limit , essentially form a type of risk sharing between the commercial operator and the Government , will empower business to navigate risk prudently while encourage continued investment in space - relate venture . as a nation , we must seize every opportunity to cultivate an environment in which british enterprise can flourish and contribute to the advancement of our economy and our technological prowess . furthermore , we should acknowledge the collaborative effort that have shape this legislation , draw on insight glean through consultation with industry stakeholder and from expert recommendation . the Bill reflect a balanced approach that prioritise the interest of both business and the public purse , ensure that our regulatory framework remain robust yet adaptable to evolve circumstance . by enshrine these principle in law , we affirm our commitment to foster a vibrant yet responsible space industry that serve the interest of our nation , our business and our citizen . by pass this Bill , we not only bolster confidence in our regulation but lie the groundwork for a future in which british ingenuity propel we to new frontier of discovery and prosperity . I urge all member to support this Bill , recognise its significance in shape the trajectory of our nation ' s space industry for decade to come . it be a pleasure to speak on this Bill , for which I commend the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) . as other have say , private company need a spaceflight operator licence , as set out in the Space Industry Act 2018 , before they can operate from the UK . I be pleased to say that we continue to support the Act as a means to ensure safety and compliance , and it be right that the Act work to limit the extent to which UK taxpayer be liable for pick up the cost of commercial spaceflight . I recognise that the limit to liability in the licence that the Act allow be key to ensure the potential economic viability of space activity . in that spirit , I welcome the move towards legal certainty regard liability limit when launch or operating satellite from the UK . as we have hear , the Bill seek to do this by amend the Space Industry Act to legally require liability limit in space operator licence . this will provide welcome clarity and reassurance to investor . we want to see a thriving UK space sector and to help our strong space sector business fulfil their potential . as a nation , we have a proud history of space exploration and global collaboration in this important field , go back to 1957 when British Skylark rocket be launch from Woomera in Australia . in 1962 , the UK partner with NASA to launch rocket from an italian base off the coast of Kenya , and , at the turn of the millennium , the British National Space Centre be the third large financial contributor to the European Space Agency . it be also worth note that pioneer british astronaut such as Helen Sharman and Major Tim Peake have make a significant contribution to space exploration . fast - forwarding to today , the UK space sector have a turnover of £ 17 billion or more and employ over 48 , 000 people , include 2 , 300 apprentice , in exciting role . there be a notable space cluster in Surrey , and my area of Berkshire have significant space business , so this legislation affect many of our constituency . space technology be not just for those involve in advanced manufacturing . it be for all of we . whether it be combat and measure climate change , use and deploy rural broadband or support transport and agriculture , space be vital for security and resilience . satellite communication play an important role in communication across the world , and space provide opportunity for crucial economic growth , as the hon . member for Woking mention , from Cornwall all the way to Shetland . indeed , aerospace research and development be a long - term endeavour , and our industrial strength in the UK be the result of decade of support by successive government . we would seek to build on that legacy , include by develop spaceport and centre such as the North East Space Skills and Technology Centre , which have create over 350 job and inject around £ 260 million in the north - east economy . we have also propose a regulatory innovation office to support our science , research , innovation and space venture . our regulator must be responsive to innovation , from in - orbit manufacturing to space - base renewable . labour ' s regulatory innovation office would rewire regulator to support innovation , include in the space sector . the office would set and monitor target for approval , benchmarke internationally , and would give regulator steer from our wide industrial strategy . we would also support the Regulatory Horizons Council , with deadline for Government to respond to its work . I will turn briefly to the importance of broad economic stability in support the UK ' s space sector . as well as regulation , industry desperately need support and stability from Government , and it be somewhat sad that the current Government have fail to always offer that stability . the National Space Council be set up by one Prime Minister , sadly cancel by the next , then reinstate by the one after that . in addition , the UK leave Galileo , a project we have do so much to bring about . the Government subsequently make a u - turn on a rival system , which cost the taxpayer £ 60 million . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee have express concern about the lack of coherence in the current Government space strategy . indeed , it have say this ambiguity add to harmful speculation about the OneWeb Eutelsat merger . unfortunately , the space industry plan be three month late , and it be unclear how the Government see space relate to key technology in the science and technology framework . in contrast , Labour ' s industrial strategy , with our statutory industrial strategy council , will provide the stability and partnership the industry need . turn to skill , when colleague speak at the UK space conference last year , attendee hear the same concern mention by hon . member early : that we need to raise the profile of space career to secure the skilled workforce that the industry demand . we propose a national skill body , Skills England , to provide leadership and to bring together government , business , training provider and trade union to meet local skill need . we want to reform the apprenticeship levy to maximise the opportunity that learner have . expand opportunity in the industry should , as be indicate early , help to create job for people from all background . Space Park Leicester , where the university , local government and industry work together to make space more accessible to all , be an example of the development we would like to support . if we be to enter Government , we would want to see a cross - government action plan for diversity in STEM . I would like to leave the Minister with a few constructive question . I hope he will address my point about stability and set out how the Government will reassure business that Britain be still a great place to invest in respect of commercial space venture . in his response , will he agree with I that skill and training be vital to the sector , and that we must provide high - quality job for people from all background ? in conclusion , on the whole we support the Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill . adequate licensing will be a key contributor to create important growth in the space sector . however , the space industry lack stable long - term investment and support from the Government . I look forward to the Minister ' s response on these matter . I welcome the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) to the Dispatch Box for his first outing as a Minister of the Crown . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) for take this important Bill through the House . I applaud he on his excellent speech . give what the shadow Minister have say , I be pleased to confirm that my hon . friend have cross - party support for the Bill . from the contribution we hear on Second Reading and in Committee , we know how beneficial the Bill will be to the many business in the UK ' s thrive space sector . the sector contribute over £ 17 . 5 billion to the UK economy and directly employ more than 48 , 000 people . the Bill support our Government ' s ambition to make the UK the lead provider of commercial small satellite launch in Europe by 2030 . we be harness the opportunity provide by launch , which will meet the aim set out in the national space strategy and the Government ' s agenda to level up the UK . this will create skilled job around the UK , as well as inspire the next generation of space professional . to achieve our ambition , the Government have already invest over £ 57 million through the launchuk programme to grow new UK market for small satellite launch and sub - orbital space flight . grow our launch capability be already create highly skilled job and opportunity right across the UK , as well as rocket boost investment across the supply chain , support the Government ' s aim to grow and level up the economy . my hon . friend be make a great speech , and I congratulate he on his introduction to the Dispatch Box . do he agree that , as I say early , the space industry be an excellent place for woman and girl to consider , and do he see any particular area of the industry as important for woman or girl to consider ? I thank my hon . friend . like , I be sure , many colleague in the House , when I be a child I aspire to be an astronaut . unfortunately , I be not able to achieve that ambition , but I hope that in today ' s debate we will inspire the next generation to ask themselves why they can not be the next — Buzz Lightyear . the next Buzz Lightyear or equivalent in the year to come . we be at the forefront of a cutting - edge industry and be world leader in many part of it . I appeal to all colleague , whenever they go to technical college , university or school in their constituency , to inspire that generation to ask themselves , " why not ? " the Government recognise that the question of liability and insurance be of utmost concern to the space sector . the industry have make it clear that face unlimited liability could have an adverse effect on the UK space flight industry . if a space flight operator ' s liability be not limited , space flight company and investor might move to other jurisdiction that have more favourable liability regime . I congratulate my hon . friend on his debut at the Dispatch Box . I must anecdotally mention that , when I be first elect , we have a visit from a space shuttle crew . have real spaceman in Parliament be terribly exciting . I want to press my hon . friend on a procedural point . he may know that the Procedure Committee be look into the territorial constitution and how the scope of Bills can extend beyond just Westminster , and England and Wales , and also look at ensure that we speak to our parliamentary colleague in devolve and other Parliaments . I note that the extent of the Bill cover the whole of the UK , the Channel Islands , the Isle of Man and the overseas territory . he be welcome to write to I about this , but will he set out what work the Government have do to ensure that Parliaments around the United Kingdom and other that be affect know about this Bill , and whether we will be look to get any legislative consent motion ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . with her permission , I will make sure that I or another Minister write to she . as she correctly point out , Shetland remain very important in the space space , and the Bill incorporate all four corner of our great Union . I be speak about the liability regime , how operator liability be limited , and how other state provide guarantee to meet all claim — all those above the operator ' s limit on liability — such as the US or France , as have be discuss . that be why the Space Industry Act 2018 contain power to limit the amount of space flight operator ' liability when carry out space flight activity from the UK . it be Government policy that the regulator should use these power and specify a limit on operator liability in the licence . the Bill be therefore fully consistent with Government policy and , furthermore , improve the Space Industry Act by meet a key request from industry to provide legislative certainty that spaceflight operator will not face unlimited liability when operate from the UK . for those reason , we be very pleased to support it . I be interested in the hon . Gentleman ' s remark about his childhood dream to be an astronaut . when I be a child , I recall one Yuri Gagarin circumnavigate the world , I think for 90 minute . it seem like a very long time ago . I call Mr Jonathan Lord to wind up . with the leave of the House , I would like to thank all member of this House for attend . for those who attend second reading , I be pleased that we have few space - relate pun today , although it be a very humorous — and , beneath the humour , very serious — debate that go on for some time and cover all issue . I also thank those member who serve on the Bill Committee , and the Clerk of private member ' Bills , Anne - Marie Griffiths , who have give such good help and advice to I and to other colleague who have bring forward private member ' Bills in this session . our space industry be thrive , but this measure be vital to secure an equally exciting and dynamic future . I be so pleased that the Bill have cross - party support . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , speak very eloquently about the space cluster that we have in Surrey and the wide south - east . one of those company be Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd , which be just outside of my constituency , but have many employee live in my constituency who will benefit . other firm — large , medium and small — will grow in the UK and come to the UK if this measure be pass . it be a great honour to see my hon . friend speak from the Dispatch Box — the first of many time , I be sure . this measure have cross - party support and , to ensure that exciting and dynamic future that I mention , I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his successful excursion into space . Animal Welfare ( Responsibility for Dog Attacks ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be a huge privilege , have already have the pleasure of guide my Pet Abduction Bill through the Commons this Session , to have the opportunity to debate my other private Member ' s Bill , which I first introduce in the previous Session . this Bill , as the Minister know , would amend the Animal Welfare Act 2006 to require a person in charge of a dog to take all reasonable step to ensure that that dog do not fatally injure another dog , and would impose criminal liability if they fail to take reasonable step and their dog fatally injure another dog . that be to plug a gap in the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 that be painfully bring to my attention , which I will come on to . before I go any far though , I thank the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , so ably lead by Lorraine and Chris Platt , for all its help in get the Bill as far as we have today . we all know that we be a nation of dog lover . there be now some 12 million dog in the UK ; that be more than the population of Essex , Suffolk , Norfolk , Cambridgeshire , Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire combine , and then double . that work out to nearly half of all household in the UK have a dog . and we all know how love our dog be ; we only have to look at the excitement of the Westminster dog of the year competition to see that . indeed , as the House well know , my cavapoochon , Lottie , be a much - love member of our family . companionship be the most common reason for have a dog and that be absolutely the case for my constituent Michael . Michael be one of the first constituent who ever come to see I — in fact , he come to see I even before I become a Member of this House — and he be so distressed and in such anguish that it be a pleasure to take up his cause . Michael have a friend call Emily , who sadly die , and he adopt her beautiful white fluffy bichon fris é bitch , Millie , both to keep he company and to help he to grieve his friend , Emily . however , around two and a half year ago , Millie be savagely attack by an off - lead , out - of - control dog while Michael be walk she through the rose garden in Chalkwell Park in Leigh - on - Sea . Michael remember the attack as if it be yesterday . it be like watch a horror movie . he describe how the dog come at Millie like a missile , even though Millie be on the lead , and " shake she like a rag - doll . " Poor Michael watch , helpless , as Millie be literally tear apart . after the attack , the good he could do be carry she to the near vet ' s , all the while bleed and with serious open wound to her abdomen . to add insult to injury , the owner of the dog that attack Millie refuse to take any responsibility for the attack , refuse to pay the vet ' s bill for euthanasia . no owner or dog should have to go through what Michael and Millie go through , and Michael be devastate and scar by that experience even to this day . obviously , he report the matter to the police , but he be tell there be nothing they could do because the incident be dog on dog and no human have be injure . you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that dog - on - dog attack be become more commonplace ; I be sure you have see the extensive report in the medium and we only have to google " dog - on - dog attack " to see a long list of news report . just this month , on 9 May , a couple be feature after their dog be so savagely attack that they be hit with a staggering £ 23 , 000 vet ' s bill for its treatment . the loophole in the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 be unacceptable and that be why I choose to reintroduce the Bill this Session . I be aware that most presentation Bills never make it on to the statute book , so I be pleased to report to the House that , as a result of the Bill and of my lobbying the Government , Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs official have be work with the Crown Prosecution Service to update its prosecution guidance on dog attack and attack on other animal . that guidance now make it explicit that a dog - on - dog attack can be prosecute under section 3 of the Dangerous Dogs Act , the offence of a dog be dangerously out of control . that be a good step forward , but the keyword be " can " — a lot of thing can be prosecute , but simply be not . I remain concerned primarily because there be no exhaustive definition of what a dog ' s be dangerously out of control actually mean . for example , those same sentencing guideline state that " it do not follow that if the dog cause injury , the dog be dangerously out of control . " we could therefore have the ludicrous situation where a dog kill another dog and it be not deem to be dangerously out of control — if , for example , the owner of a dangerous dog deliberately set it on a neighbour ' s dog . although the update guidance be a step forward , it do not deal with the problem I seek to address . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech and give some very upsetting and tragic example of how dog attack dog . do she see similarity between this Bill and the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill , which we discuss early , where the dog have attack livestock , and do she agree that more must be do to ensure that dog owner behave responsibly ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point , which be absolutely right . this be about place responsibility on the owner , not criminalise the dog itself . that be exactly why I be bring forward this private Member ' s Bill . when I first introduce the Bill , I be contact by many dog owner up and down the country , who share heartbreake tale about the loss of their treasured dog . many of they have contact I again and be delighted that the Bill be be reintroduce today . let I deal first with the scale of the problem . the Minister know that , in order to support Michael , I submit freedom of information request to all 43 territorial police force in the UK , ask whether they record dog - on - dog attack as a separate offence and , if so , how many they have record over the last five year . shockingly , only 14 police force currently record a dog - a - dog attack as a separate incident . in 2016 , they record a total of 1 , 700 dog - on - dog attack . five year on , the number have skyrocket : in 2021 , the same 14 police force record 11 , 559 dog - on - dog attack — a 700 % increase — with a shocking 2 , 264 in London alone . the true incidence of dog - on - dog attack be likely to be even high , because the fact that a police force do not record dog - on - dog attack as separate offence do not mean that they be not happen . on the current legislative framework , law have be strengthen in recent year to protect the public where a dog present a risk to public safety — whether in public or in private — but it remain the case that a dog owner be not automatically liable for any form of criminal prosecution when their dog fatally injure another , unless the other dog be a guide , assistance or service dog , the dog bite a human , or " there be ground for reasonable apprehension that it will injure any person " . that sound good — it be an objective test — but it be not universally apply , and the proof of the pudding be what happen in Michael ' s case . he be ask whether he want to press for some sort of prosecution , but he say that he have not fear for his own safety . it have be clear that the dog be go for the small dog , and Michael do not fear that there be a danger to himself at that point . the law do not adequately cover this type of incident , and pet dog should have the same protection as guide , assistance and service dog , because the loss that be feel by a family follow the death of their beloved companion be the same , if not more . my hon . friend be make an eloquent speech . some of the most distressing case that have come into my inbox over the year have involve a precious pet face these sort of circumstance . I completely agree with she that , if we can make law to protect guide dog and assistance dog , we should be able to do the same for precious pet , which mean so much to so many family . I agree . that be exactly what this Bill — Emilie ' s law — seek to do . it will close the loophole and deal with this issue as a matter of animal welfare , place responsibility on the dog owner . it be not about dog , because dog have owner . the owner should be responsible . I be listen with considerable interest . there be a large number of farmer in my area , and some of they be sheep farmer . one of their complaint be that people stray on to their land with their dog and often let they go . let we imagine a situation in which a farmer be bring in his sheep and have send out his huntaway , which disappear over the brow . unbeknown to he , a stray dog attack the huntaway , which will probably be big than most dog , and the stray dog be kill . who be to blame ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . as I say at the beginning of my speech , the Bill be about place responsibility on a dog owner to take all reasonable step . in that instance , it may be that the farmer have take all reasonable step , in which case there would not be liability ; if he have not , he would potentially be catch by the Bill . first , the Bill would criminalise fatal dog - on - dog attack , extend the same protection to pet dog that already exist for service , guide and assistance dog . secondly , Emilie ' s law would empower owner to pursue justice if their beloved pet be brutally attack , while not demonise any particular breed or create unhelpful stereotype around certain breed of dog . as I have say , the issue be poor ownership . thirdly , the Bill would encourage responsible dog ownership and animal welfare by place the responsibility for a fatal dog attack fairly and squarely on the person in charge of the dog , and empower the police to take action , which will have a deterrent effect , thus encourage more responsible dog ownership . it be important to note that the Bill also include a number of defence for good owner who be not to blame if their dog cause a fatality , such as if the dog that cause the fatal injury be respond to provocation from another animal or human , and the step take by the responsible person to prevent the situation from escalate . the point be to keep the onus on owner but ensure that they be deal with fairly , and not punish they for a situation out of their control . finally , my Bill would ensure that local police force record dog - on - dog attack as separate offence , enable we finally to see the full scale of these offence . the Bill be about protect every single dog across the UK . the vast majority of dog owner be responsible but , for those who be not , there must be consequence . pass the Bill would make our dog safe , and it would also make our park , street , town and city — especially the new city of Southend — safe place for we and our dog to live , work and visit . finally , the Bill would send yet another signal to the world that we in the UK take animal welfare seriously , and make we the international exemplar that we all know we be . I have leave just a little time , in which I hope to hear from the Minister . I thank the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for her work in this important area of policy . we be a nation of dog lover , as be say early , and people in Britain care deeply about animal welfare . the opposition therefore of course support the Bill . I want to speak briefly in support of it and raise a constituency case , which be similar to one that she mention early . I find the story of Millie and her owner Michael deeply move . the hon . Lady be right to describe the attack as be like a horror movie . I have a similar case in my constituency of Reading East , where an attack happen in Cintra Park — a local park — and a woman who be walk her beloved pet dog have that dog savage by a much large dog , which be well know in that area of the town . unfortunately , because it be a dog - on - dog attack , there be no power available to local police to tackle that terrible incident — it be absolutely appalling . the little dog that be attack have to be take for surgery and be lucky to have survive . therefore , I think the Bill be well research and the hon . Lady ' s point well make . I seek clarification from the Minister on whether dog that be not kill but severely injure could be protect by the Bill . I hope for good news on that front . in that spirit , may I offer the official Opposition ' s support for the Bill ? I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response , with more detail on that point and other related matter . I thank the hon . Lady again for her hard work on this important area of policy . I must , of course , begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for present the Bill . she have a commendable record in respect of animal welfare issue and support the Government on those issue , and I congratulate she on the success of her Pet Abduction Bill . I also recognise the contribution of all the other member who have support the welfare issue that we have discuss . this particular Bill , however , seek to amend the Animal Welfare Act 2006 to require a person — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 14 June . Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Greater London Low Emission Zone Charging ( Amendment ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 22 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 7 June . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Health and Equality act ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . I rise to present a petition on the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry on behalf of the resident of my constituency . the petition " declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence , have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . " this include Margaret and Catherine , the widow of brother Bill and Michael Payne , who be just two of the boy infect with contaminate blood at the now infamous Treloars school . these be boy with haemophilia , supposedly under specialist care , but — in the word of another former pupil — they be treat like lab rat . the petition also state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Bristol East , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002992 ] Hajj Fraud Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) I be proud to represent nearly 15 , 000 Muslims as their MP in Parliament . the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims recently inform I that my constituency have the 70th large muslim population in the country , and I know from my time as a Westminster city councillor , and now as an MP , of the key role that british Muslims play in make the two city such a proudly multicultural and welcome place in which to live . since be elect , I have work with a large number and a wide variety of organisation in my constituency , include those support my muslim constituent , such as the Westminster Bangladeshi Welfare Trust and the Westminster Bangladeshi Association , both of which have support their community for many year . last month I be delighted to be invite to attend Eid celebration on the Churchill Gardens Estate in Pimlico , organise by the resident association , lead by their impressive chairman Christina Walsh . the event bring together local people of all faith and none to celebrate this deeply significant religious festival , enable we to enjoy it as a community no matter what our background . it be a very special afternoon , and I be delighted to be able to continue to learn more about the Ummah community and , in turn , about the Hajj journey that so many of my constituent will make next month . let I explain to those who do not already know that Hajj be the pilgrimage to the holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia , the birthplace of the prophet Mohammed , which every adult Muslim be expect to undertake in his or her lifetime if financially and physically able to do so . from speak to muslim friend about their experience of Hajj , I know what a special and significant time it be for they . Hajj be the fifth of the fundamental muslim practice know as the five pillar of Islam , and be obligatory . the pilgrim rite begin on the seventh day of Dhu Al - Hijja , the last month of the islamic year , and end on the 12th day . as it be base on the lunar calendar , this year Hajj be expect to begin on 14 June and conclude on 19 June . despite its religious importance , many travel from the UK to Mecca to perform Hajj be sadly not immune to target by fraudster . I learn at first hand about Hajj - relate fraud on a recent visit to the City of London police , base in my constituency , where I meet Commander Umer Khan . the City of London police take the national lead on fraud , and thus Hajj - relate fraud court case come under its jurisdiction . Commander Khan be lead the force ' s nationwide effort to highlight how to prevent be a victim of Hajj - relate fraud , and I would like to take this opportunity to thank he and his team for their outstanding work . accord to the police , only 3 % of Hajj - relate fraud be actually report . the reason for such low reporting can be multifacete . some may not wish to report the crime as they book through a contact of someone they know in their community or from their mosque ; other may wish not to complain due to embarrassment or shame . we often hear these reason from victim of whatever fraud , in whatever circumstance . one of the reason I apply for this debate be to send a clear message to our british Muslim community that they should feel safe and confident that they will be take seriously if they report a suspect fraud . due to the low level of reporting , we simply can not know the full extent of what I think be a heinous crime . in my discussion with City of London police officer about Hajj - relate fraud , they inform I that they have accidentally come across incidence of fraud , but be find it increasingly difficult to receive report of this crime . my hon . friend be make an eloquent speech . as a former deputy leader of Westminster City Council , I know the importance of the muslim community there , just as I have an important muslim community in Woking . my hon . friend be make a good point : the message must go out to member of this House that we should speak with religious and community leader locally to ensure that this heinous crime be report . as I say , I have a large muslim community , but I have not hear of this before . it sound terrible . my hon . friend be absolutely right . before I go on my visit with the City of London police , which take the lead on this , and meet Commander Khan , I be not aware of it either . it be important that we highlight these hide crime . I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on secure his third private Member ' s Bill of his political career so far . I want to highlight the importance of ensure that member of the muslim community in this country know that if they be victim of any type of fraud , but particularly Hajj - relate fraud , they can inform the police and have it investigate properly . the City of London police believe that one of the reason for low level of reporting may be traditional attitude that persist : have become " pure " as a Hajji , the person involve may not want to speak of such worldly thing as fraud on their pilgrimage . those who suspect that they have be a victim of any type of fraud should report it straightaway to Action Fraud , the national fraud and cyber - crime reporting service , which be available online at actionfraud . police . uk . every year , 25 , 000 british Muslims travel to Mecca in Saudi Arabia to undertake their Hajj . many will have save for year in the knowledge that it will be a once in a lifetime trip . brit who take part in the pilgrimage spend a combine £ 125 million each year . these cost include return flight , accommodation , and pay for a guide . datum obtain from the police . uk website show that , sadly , police force have report Hajj - relate fraud where british citizen have lose anything from £ 1 , 000 up to a staggering £ 33 , 000 to fraudster , who promise to arrange their Hajj travel and accommodation but have no intention of ever do so , and be never hear from again . those shop around for the good deal for their trip to Mecca , both in their local community and increasingly online — particularly on social medium — have be attract to package cover flight , accommodation and visa , which appear to offer good value for money . some rogue operator advertise large reduction on what would usually be charge . Accommodation advertise as a 4 - star hotel be , in reality on arrival , find to be barely the quality of a 1 - star place . I have hear report of flight be deliberately over - subscribed , lead to people fail to make the trip at all , and of people pose as travel agent , charge extortionate price for visa — up to £ 1 , 000 each — when they be actually free . I have hear of traveller be ask to pay in cash or make a direct bank transfer prior to their trip , and be tell that they would receive their ticket and travel document near to the departure date , never to be receive . a once in a lifetime trip , often use life saving , end in heartbreak . I can not imagine the distress and upset that must cause people so look forward to undertake their Hajj . as we lead up to this year ' s Hajj , I think it important to highlight the danger that fraudster can pose to our citizen at this special time , and to ensure that people know that there be a way to protect themselves from become victim of Hajj - relate fraud . in response to tackle this fraud , which affect not just british Muslims but those plan their pilgrimage from across the world , the saudi Arabian Government have act decisively . it be important to highlight that this be a global fraud issue . I read with interest in Arab News yesterday that the iraqi authority have prosecute more than 25 company fraudulently engage in commercial Hajj operation . in 2022 , know that Hajj - relate fraud be increasingly an issue , the saudi Arabian Ministry of Hajj and Umrah create the Nusuk Hajj portal , which have change the way that individual book their pilgrimage . the portal be available in over 50 country , include the United Kingdom , and be create to provide a seamless and safe pilgrimage booking experience . by centralise the process by which visa be acquire , much of the fraud have be stifle , thankfully . it be imperative that individual book their Hajj trip only through the Nusuk portal . anyone pose as a provider of visa or trip to Mecca for Hajj be simply mislead people . sadly , even after the creation of the Nusuk Hajj portal and despite its success in reduce fraud , the criminal fraternity continue — as it always do — to attempt to find new avenue to try to take advantage . my advice to Hajjis be to remain vigilant about what be be sell and by whom . I still receive report of individual be sell Umrah visa and generic tourist visa and be tell that they be acceptable for their Hajj pilgrimage . that be not the case . People can only travel with a Hajj visa from the Nusuk portal . the other visa allow access at any other time of year , but for Hajj period , those reliant on those visa will not be permit entry to Mecca . it be important to note that Hajj - relate fraud be not just about people buy a package that simply do not exist ; it also involve profiteer from a sacred pilgrimage . the fraudster involve be , to my mind , the low of the low . I thank the group that work tirelessly to highlight the importance of protect people from Hajj - relate fraud and encourage the use of the Nusuk Hajj portal . as well as Commander Khan and the City of London police , I must thank the hon . member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) for her work lead the all - party parliamentary group on Hajj and Umrah , which , alongside the Council for British Hajjis , have raise the profile of this fraud immeasurably . I meet the hon . member recently to discuss Hajj - relate fraud , and she be clear that trading standard department up and down the country , and specifically in Birmingham , have work hard to uncover such criminal activity , bring those involve to justice , and ensure that the wide muslim community be aware of possible fraud and the importance of use the Nusuk Hajj portal . by highlight and encourage the use of the portal among british Muslims , I hope that we can tackle Hajj - relate fraud once and for all . after all , this be UK Finance ' s take Five Week — a week design to raise awareness of and help tackle all type of fraud . I look forward to hear from the Minister how his Department and the Government in general will support british Muslims this year and every year to ensure that they can enjoy their pilgrimage without fear of exploitation and disappointment . let I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and congratulate she on secure this afternoon ' s Adjournment debate . I think she first raise the topic in business question on 18 April , and here we be just a few week later debate it . she be right to raise the issue , particularly give that it be just a few week until Muslims from all over the world will travel to Saudi Arabia for Hajj . that will of course include thousand of british Muslims . for many , their pilgrimage be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity . my hon . friend set out clearly the way that Hajj fraud operate . exploitative criminal prey on hard - work family to dupe they out of their money , sometimes use fake website and other mean to persuade people to pay for good or service that be not forthcoming . I echo the advice that my hon . Friend give people to make sure that they book visa only via the properly authorised route . when book travel via a travel agent , it be essential to make sure that the travel agency or tour operator be a member of the Association of British Travel Agents , to carefully check online review , to make sure that the travel company be ATOL - protect by the Civil Aviation Authority , and to make sure that the flight detail and Hajj visa be valid . those be all step that people can and should take to protect themselves and make sure the counterparty they be deal with be a legitimate organisation . we also strongly advise people never to pay by cash or by direct bank transfer into someone ' s personal bank account . the Government be commit to tackle both Hajj fraud and fraud more widely . I be pleased to report that overall , fraud be fall , with the late datum from the crime survey for England and Wales show a 16 % reduction year on year . but I be afraid to say that fraud remain the most common crime type , account for about 37 % of all crime . that mean that one in every 18 adult be a victim of fraud in the last year . that be why we must clamp down on all form of fraud , include Hajj fraud . that be encapsulate in our fraud strategy , publish almost exactly a year ago , which entail invest about £ 100 million to improve law enforcement capability and launch a new national fraud squad , with 400 specialist investigator in post . it also include step to replace the Action Fraud service this year , which have be the subject of some criticism , to ensure victim of fraud have the confidence to come forward know their case will be deal with properly . we be also crack down on fraudster online . we know that many case of Hajj fraud have an online element , which require particular vigilance . when the Online Safety Act 2023 be fully enact , it will help the regulator Ofcom to hold to account online social medium platform if they allow fraud to proliferate . that will take time to come into force fully , so to protect people even soon , we have agree the online fraud charter with 12 of the large tech company , include Amazon , eBay , Meta and Google . that be enter into last November and include a series of voluntary action that they will take . when the 2023 Act come fully into force , it will compel large social medium platform to take proactive step to combat fraud , include Hajj fraud . as my hon . Friend say , public awareness be critical , as be people take step to protect themselves . that be why the " stop ! think Fraud " national behaviour change campaign be so important . it encourage the public to always stop and think before they make a payment , and ask themselves , " be it possible I be be defraud ? be the counterparty legitimate ? what can I do to check their credential before make that payment ? " criminal be become increasingly sophisticated , often now use artificial intelligence to generate image or even video design to trick people into pay money . the public ' s vigilance be therefore extremely important , alongside the law enforcement response through the fraud strategy and the action we be take to compel large online platform to be more proactive in stop fraud proliferate online . in conclusion , I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue on behalf of her muslim community in the Cities of London and Westminster . my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) raise the issue on behalf of the muslim community in his constituency . in my own constituency of Croydon South , there be a significant muslim community too . I know that other member with muslim community will echo the call make by my two hon . friend for our constituent to be vigilant and to report immediately any suspicious activity . Hajj fraud be a disgraceful example of criminal exploit a religious pilgrimage for their own personal gain . I be sure all of we condemn that wholeheartedly and will do everything we possibly can to stop it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .