it be a privilege to make my maiden speech among such an outstanding group of people . I hope that people who have see the maiden speech over the past few day , and will watch they in the day , week and month to come , might see some of the warmth , kindness and decency that I have meet in my fellow mps in these first couple of week in Parliament . I be the newly elect Member for the beautiful constituency of worthe West . nestle between the south down and the english channel , we be often describe as that area just west of our big sister , Brighton . but , as with all young sister , we have many often unsung merit , about which it will be my absolute pleasure to tell the House a little today . worthe West be make up of two third of worthe town , the other third now be ably represent by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) . in this part of my constituency people can find worthe town centre , our beautiful old lido building , and the recently return worthe wheel . before be elect to Parliament , I have the great privilege of be the leader of worthe council . our vision for worthe be for it to be both the fair and the green coastal town in the UK , an ambition that I be sure my coastal colleague will try to wrestle from I . alongside an ambitious decarbonisation plan , work on worthe ' s town centre garden will begin this autumn in a community and council - lead project . we be also privileged to be part of the Sussex Bay project , a movement of radical collaboration initiate by Adur & worthe Councils with the mission of restore a healthy blue ecosystem to our sea and waterway in which nature , people and the local economy can thrive . worthe West be also home to the beautiful coastal and country village of Ferring , East Preston , Angmering , Findon , Clapham and Patching . I can tell any keen camper — I have not be in Parliament long enough to know how many mps actually like be without wi - fi and a good latte , but I be hope to find a few — that the Fox Wood campsite in Patching be a firm local favourite . there be two very handy pub near the site , the Fox and the Worlds End , which serve the most excellent food when your fire will not light and even the kid be sick of bean on toast . I be only the second Member of Parliament to represent worthe West . it be first form in 1974 , and for the past 30 year have be represent by Sir Peter Bottomley , who I know be very well respect here as the Father of the House . he be know for work cross - party on a variety of important campaign , include leasehold reform and the infected blood scandal . Sir Peter and I share a great affection for worthe West , and during the election campaign we often bump into each other enjoy a quick cuppa with constituent . I should confess at this point that I be a northerner originally , adopt by the south as one of its own , and a good brew be a must - have for a day to start and end well . we have many excellent caf é s in our area . to anyone who be listen to my speech and think that this newbie MP be not do too bad a job of sell the merit of her home town , I can thoroughly recommend the cake at Sea Lane caf é on Goring beach , the coffee at both Coast caf é and Finch in worthe town centre , and the breakfast at the Bluebird caf é in Ferring , among many other . at this point , I should also confess that my extolling of the virtue of cake — and all credit to the House staff for the incredible muffin in the parliamentary caf é — be temper by the fact that I be by profession a medical doctor , and , as my child will testify , I be reasonably obsess with make sure that cake be part of a healthy balance that allow we to enjoy all the different type of food . to be fair , my child would not necessarily recognise that description and might just say that their mum be a bit of a nag with a carrot obsession and an aversion to play computer game for too long , but such be the joy of parenthood . when people ask what type of doctor I be — and I definitely do not have the patience for a phd — the response that I be a public health consultant be often meet with slightly puzzled stare , a recalibration of what they have hear , and the decision that I be probably a gp by another name . however , I be delighted to join my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) to represent public health here in the House . it be the reason I choose to go into politic . it be the art and science ofkeeping population well and help people to live healthy life . I appreciate that today ' s debate primarily concern home affair and immigration , so I will talk about public health on the basis of the explicit principle that health be essential in all thing to ensure safety and security for all people . as part of my public health training I spend time with the Health Protection Agency , now part of Public Health England . that training stand I in particularly good stead during the pandemic , when I find myself with a daily slot on BBC Radio Sussex talk about covid , debunk myth and provide reassurance that our fantastic scientist and public health specialist be do everything possible to develop vaccination and to keep we safe . the result of the covid inquiry , publish last week , reveal the clear conclusion that investment in preventive measure be always money well spend , and that be sadly lack before the pandemic . public health funding be cut by 25 % between 2015 and 2024 , so there be some salient lesson to be learn quickly about prevention be well than cure . my time in local government , as a public health consultant and subsequently as a councillor and council leader , teach I that politics be often the frontline where we grapple with the issue that arise from inequality and inequity — two indicator which tell we that the decision make by those of we in a position of influence be not yet decision that be maximise the health and wellbeing of the people we represent . the resource require to meet basic human need should be available to everyone , regardless of where we live or which family we be bear into . for people like I in public health and politic , there be a wealth of datum and evidence — as well as , I would contend , basic common sense — show that when resource be not allocate fairly to allow everyone ' s basic human need to be meet , we all suffer for it . People do not thrive without clean water , clean air , access to green space and good food . our physical body become far less resilient to illness when those be not available to we , and the same be true of poor housing , poor education and poor job . the causal link between poor housing condition and poor health outcome be long establish , with health outcome associate with poor housing cost the NHS an estimate £ 1 . 4 billion every year . we know that exposure to poor housing condition , include damp , cold , mould and noise , be strongly associate with poor health , both physical and mental . inequality in life expectancy be increase , especially for woman . in worthe West , a woman live in one of our poor area will live an average of 8 . 3 year less than a woman live in one of our wealthy area , and for the population as a whole , the time spend in poor health be increase . as Sir Michael Marmot so saliently put it , " if health have stop improve it be a sign that society have stop improve . " when people become physically and mentally ill , potential be lose , and before you know it , your country do not have a national health service ; it have an overwhelmed national sickness service . I be so proud and privileged to be part of the Labour intake of 2024 . for too long now , our politic have be make people sick . this be the start of a journey that I very much hope will lead to a politics that help to keep people well for many generation to come . reduce inequality and inequity will allow everyone to do well . the politic of health be the narrative of our nation . a government who focus on the health and wellbeing of the people we serve be a Government who enable we to rise together to face the challenge of both today and tomorrow . I be grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate . I be in awe of the maiden speech and all the other speech that have be make today and on previous day . the standard and quality of both this intake and long - serve Members be inspiring . I be fill with excitement , pride and belief in what we can achieve in the year to come . it be a truly exciting time . I be honour and privileged to speak as the Member for Rossendale and Darwen , my home . I be very aware that this could happen only because of a huge amount of hard work by friend and Labour colleague across the constituency , and of course because of the decision make by so many of my fellow resident to put their trust in I and a change Labour party . I offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who put I in this place . I will do my very good not to let they down . my constituency and home be a special place . indeed , I be tempt to say that it represent the very good of Lancashire but , wary of controversy , I will simply say that it be a wonderful part of a wonderful county . it be a post - industrial place of moor , hill and valley that frame the community of Darwen , Whitworth , Bacup , Crawshawbooth , Stacksteads , Weir , Waterfoot , Rawtenstall , Edenfield , Helmshore and the west Pennine village — I will have miss one out , so I be sure I will be shoot as soon as I get home . in represent my home , I succeed Sir Jake Berry , who serve our constituency for 14 year . I pay tribute to he for his service and , in particular , his work campaign on provision for child with special educational need . Rossendale and Darwen be very much a swing seat . prior to 2010 , we have be splendidly represent by Janet Anderson . I be pleased and proud to call Janet a friend . we sadly lose she last year , but I will always remember she as a true role model of a constituency MP . she be always available , always responsive , always engage and always willing to roll up her sleeve and get stick in . what more can I say about Rossendale and Darwen ? I will spare member a full geography lesson and go for some fun - ish fact . first , the constituency be a quirk of boundary commission methodology that will forever remain a mystery to we . there be little historical or physical connection between Rossendale and Darwen . indeed , driver have to leave the constituency to travel between the two half . Rossendale be once know as the " golden valley " and lie at the very heart of the industrial revolution . indeed , a book on that time by local author Chris Aspin be subtitle " when Rossendale lead the world . " we be also refer to as the " valley of stone , " and the flagstone in Trafalgar Square come from a Rossendale quarry . Crown , in Darwen , be Britain ' s old paint maker . in 1931 , Mahatma Gandhi come to meet mill worker in Darwen , seek to understand the hardship they be face — on reflection , that in itself be quite remarkable . he say , " they treat I as one of their own . I shall never forget that . " this sense of inclusion and understanding remain . we have many wonderful community organisation and , while be reluctant to single anyone out , I must pay tribute to the vital work do in my hometown by the Bacup family centre and Bacup Pride , and across the constituency by our volunteer - lead food bank and credit union , and keep Darwen Tidy and Civic Pride Rossendale , to which I wish the good of luck in Britain in Bloom judging this week . something we be less proud of be that Rossendale be the only local authority area in the north without any sort of commuter railway service , which be a fact that I hope the Secretary of State for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , do not become too bored of hearing . I have a few more . Darwen be home to Darwen Live , the UK ' s — and possibly Europe ' s — big free music festival . Mr Fitzpatrick ' s in Rawtenstall be Britain ' s last survive temperance bar . Darwen football club be form in 1870 and be the first club in the world to have professionally pay player . and Brent Peters , manager of Bacup Borough football club , be say to be the long - serve manager in world football . Rossendale and Darwen be distinct place , each with a deep history . at the same time , they have much in common . I be in many way hearten that , during the campaign , one of my most frequent ask be for a well politic . the people of Rossendale and Darwen be honest and hard - work . they value integrity , co - operation and community service , and they want to see this in their politician . I believe this reflect a feeling across the country , and hence it be a great opportunity and responsibility for we . with over 300 new mp , we have a real chance to set a new tone , to work together across the House and to hold to the standard that our resident expect of we . a less positive thing that Rossendale and Darwen have in common be a concern about the direction in which too many of our school have be head . too many parent agonise over the choice , or lack of choice , available to they . it simply must not be the case that a child ' s future be determine by an education lottery . that every school be a good school be an imperative we must hold to , and I be proud to see our new Labour Government commit to remove barrier to opportunity , raise school standard and ensure that the school system be fair for every child . another commonality be our topography — hill , crag , moor and valley . I be a climber and cyclist , and these be my playground . I be fortunate to have enjoy an active life , which have turn into a career . it have take I to amazing place , and I know that I be healthy , wise and happy as a result . in many way , what these sport have teach I be what have bring I here . it be a sad fact that , in the UK today , nearly 40 % of the population be not active enough for good health . this contribute to one in six death and be estimate to cost the UK economy £ 7 . 6 billion annually . yet physical activity can help to prevent and manage over 20 chronic disease and condition , include some cancer , heart disease , type 2 diabete and depression . overall , it be recognise that £ 1 spend on physical activity generate £ 4 of benefit in return . in short , invest in physical activity be a no - brainer . it have be hearten to see the importance of prevention recognise so clearly in our manifesto , in this debate and , indeed , at Question Time this morning . sport and physical activity can change life , and they can save life . active life start young , yet around 50 % of under - 18 do not get enough exercise . how often do we hear kid tell we that " there be nothing to do around here " ? I believe that every child should feel they have full and inclusive access to the countryside and to recreational facility that give they the opportunity to live active life , escape constraint and explore their potential . I believe this mission underpin many other , and I look forward to speak again on this subject in the year to come . the hill of Rossendale matter to I in other way . on the moor close to home we scatter the ashe of our daughter , Mallorie . she have be bear in Burnley hospital with Edward ' s syndrome , a condition we be tell be not compatible with life . her time with we be short but her impact on our life be great . the support we have from Burnley hospital and local baby loss charity friend of Serenity be vital . while Edward ' s syndrome be rare , it be far from be the only cause of baby loss . every day , an average of 13 family suffer the pain of baby loss — that be around 5 , 000 family a year . some report suggest that up to one in five of those family tragedy be avoidable . there be a grow movement around baby loss awareness . indeed , in October we have Baby Loss Awareness Week . I hope to use my time in this House to support the ongoing drive for great care and support for the family affect by baby loss and for continued improvement in its prevention . it be customary to pay tribute to the speaker before I for his first contribution to this House , but , let we face it , that be quite a polished contribution that he have have 21 year to prepare — so thank you to he . this be my maiden speech as the first woman to represent Darlington from the Government Benches . I wish to pay tribute to Baroness Chapman , the first female MP for Darlington , for pave the way . she smash that glass ceiling and now I have the privilege of serve our town in a Labour Government . representation matter , and I will use my platform to highlight the issue face woman in the town — issue such as low - pay work , additional care responsibility , the childcare crisis , menopause discrimination , maternity service and poor paternity right . I will also be a champion for woman ' s health and support service . I wish to pay tribute to the work of our police and crime commissioner , my friend Joy Allen and her team , on end violence against woman and girl in the town and to Harbour and Family Help , which do exceptional work in very difficult time . I be proud that this Labour Government will bring forward strong legislation to tackle this important issue . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Peter Gibson , first for his respect throughout the general election campaign and secondly for his work ethic . trust in politician across both side of this House be at an all - time low , and Mr Gibson work tirelessly to communicate positively to everyone in Darlington about the work that he be do . People thank he for it , and I will emulate it . I genuinely wish he well . I be a product of my constituency and proud of it . I be from good stock : west end star Zoe Birkett of " Pop Idol " fame go to my high school ; " Big Brother " winner and man ' s mental health campaigner Anthony Hutton be a Darlington resident ; and we have a proud and active veteran community . in fact , two of the brilliant Doorkeepers in this Chamber tell I early that they know Darlington well because of their training at Catterick Garrison , just outside my constituency . I thank Dan Smith , an active campaigner for veteran support in Darlington , for his work for our town and for his friendship to I during the campaign . we have a bustling business and hospitality community across the town . we have Dan the Bakerman , whose sourdough be nationally acclaim , the Echo 3 and Hatch coffee house , which keep I caffeinate , and Claire from the Cheese & Wine Shop who herself welcome our Prime Minister and Chancellor very recently . we have a brilliant sporting community , from Spraire Lads football team , which my brother use to play for , to the Headlanders netball club and the Hundens Lane bowl club to name just a few . it would be remiss of I not to mention the Quakers , Darlington ' s football club , which have a very famous alumnus in the Three Lions ' well ever goalkeeper , Jordan Pickford . like many of we from Darlington , I love the town , I like a laugh , I work hard and I do not like to be take for a fool . I be send here to right the wrong that have lead to too many in our town be let down , and I will do just that . I will not lose sight of those who send I and go above and beyond to put their time and trust in I — my teacher , the St Augustine ' s community , my Labour family and , of course , my parent , my brother and my husband , all of whom have have their personal life thrust right into my political story , not entirely through choice , but in the name of our common goal , which be a well future for our community . I be lucky to be here . I get a second chance on a vocational master ' s degree at Newcastle University , where I be teach on the job how to be a journalist . I come from a long line of people who have do well for themselves than be expect for they and I will dedicate my time in Parliament to knock down barrier to opportunity for everyone in our town , so that no matter their postcode they can live the life they want , well . I be inspire by those who go before I on our brilliant Northern Echo paper , which be found in 1870 — two year after the constituency of Darlington — and still boast fantastic campaign journalist . they include Chris Lloyd , the town ' s historian — I be mention he in this speech so that he will help with my new blue plaque scheme for the town — and Kayleigh Fraser , who be still chase I for a quote . sorry , Kayleigh . this Saturday just go , I have the joy of visit a new tourist attraction in Darlington — Hopetown , name after the area of the town in which I grow up , where Darlington ' s famous contribution to the railway and the industrial revolution be base . the new attraction incorporate our railway heritage and have incredible artefact , top - of - the - range art installation and digital interactive educational point to tell our story to visitor . I be tell member this because I welcome everyone — on both side of the House — to come and visit . when they do , they must try the Black Diamond ice cream ; it be already take off on social medium . I have huge pride in the town ' s industrial contribution and I be delighted to be the first Darlington Member to represent Heighington and Coniscliffe , and with they come their beautiful village and even more railway history . Mr Deputy Speaker , this be for you to note especially . I learn something new about my home town this weekend . before the establishment of the railway , our clock be not standardise and Darlington operate a full four minute behind Westminster , so , as those who know I well will attest , I still like to operate on Darlington time . as a nod to tradition , I shall be keep to my town ' s original time for the duration of my time on these Benches . one of the artefact that catch my eye in the museum , among the railway medal and the framed timetable , be an award from 2019 for the manufacture giant Cleveland Bridge . like so many brilliant company over recent year , Cleveland Bridge have cease trading . what make this company particularly of note be its vast global contribution . it build the Sydney harbour bridge and , in fact , the former Health Secretary and Labour Darlington MP , the right hon . Alan Milburn , reference it in his maiden speech two decade ago . I be determined that our manufacturing contribution in Darlington be not consign to museum and the history book . we be proud people and we be grafter . we do not need handout ; we need a Government who allow our brilliance to shine again . I have already have the excellent engineering firm cummin to Parliament to discuss make our area a green hydrogen cluster and ensure that hydrogen be at the heart of our decarbonisation strategy . I look forward to work with my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , an expert in green hydrogen and the future of steel , in his new brief . over the course of the campaign that lead up to my election , the big thread from the people of Darlington , from people of every income , background and political persuasion , be that the cost of living be too high and public service be at break point . I firmly believe that this Government must urgently tackle the mental health crisis blight our town and region . in my own network , I know seven man who have die by suicide . mental health waiting time and service for man , mother , child and veteran be way behind where they need to be . I will be relentless in my approach to improve our mental health service for everyone in our town . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who I know share my passion for equity between mental health and physical health , will not be able to avoid I , just as soon as I can work my way around the Palace labyrinth . as a woman in politic , I be frequently offer unsolicited advice and tell that I need a thick skin , although I firmly believe that those with too thick a skin have be rule this Chamber for too long , and I be here to represent ordinary people with compassion , because I be one of they . I be only too aware of the embolden effect that online platform give bully and harasser . I think we have reach a fork in the road and I will use my position to stamp out online bullying , not just for those who be victim of it now , but for the next generation , who I believe we have a duty to protect . this Labour Government be commit to tackle climate change and wealth creation , and that be an opportunity for our region that must be grab with both hand . that be why I have already visit Hitachi with my neighbour and friend the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) , to put my full support behind effort to secure the future of skilled and essential job at the Newton Aycliffe plant that employ many of my constituent . the Treasury and many other key Departments have a presence in my constituency , provide skilled graduate job , which we welcome and want to build on . I will be a champion for public money be well spend . I have make my career improve public procurement contract , fight for work people to earn a wage they can live on and have decent term and condition . I will use that experience to ensure that when public money be spend in Darlington , it provide the good possible bang for our buck in impact and outcome for our town . I will be a loud voice on this issue and will work with everyone and anyone who believe , like I do , that we can get our regional economy thrive with decent job for local people , so that people can work hard and earn enough to save for their future , and have safe , secure housing and spend quality time with their family . I be very fortunate that the Chancellor will be visit her second office in Darlington regularly and I be committed to maximise the opportunity that bring to benefit my community . my constituency and everyone in it have the potential for a bright future , and I will do everything I can to secure it . while I want to make our country well , my priority be improve the life of those in my home town , those who raise I , those who have send I here — the good people of Darlington . so , in keep with my railway theme , full steam ahead ! I begin by thank the people of Bassetlaw for put I here . my commitment be to serve all resident to the good of my ability . I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) for his contribution , and I look forward to debate with he in this place . today ' s debate have a direct link to the ongoing discussion on poverty . have see the last Government shut all three bassetlaw police station and both courthouse , I will have much to say on the issue in this Parliament . crime and poverty have a clear connection . I need no lesson on how a lack of money impact on child grow up — I live it — but that experience teach I something far more valuable in understand the impact of poverty and inequality , because what my family lack in money , we more than make up for in love and in hope and dream . I be bring up to believe in I and what I could achieve . my mother get herself out of poverty because of the Open University , and my father make a choice all too familiar today . he give up his engineering job to be a Sainsbury ' s warehouseman to guarantee cheap food , and of course he serve as a shop steward for USDAW . I remain proud of both my parent for what they do for I . I be a free school meal kid — separate queue , of course — and a free school uniform kid , with clothe from the jumble sale and no new , smart , bright white sock for I , but I have no poverty of aspiration , no hold back , no shutting down of my dream . that be good parenting , back by their hard work . I commute six hour every day to complete my own study , take my newborn baby in a carrycot with I . that be what learn to aspire result in . I get the little me so common in bassetlaw and elsewhere : they be my people , my responsibility . money be often a problem , but poverty of aspiration be much a big one to overcome . you be tell that you can not do that , that this door be not for you , that you stink , that you be thick , that your hope be only ever dream and can never be realise ; well , this kid never stop dream . today ' s little me — the one who do without the flashy trainer , who play outside but never go inside the big sport stadium or the posh restaurant and the caf é s , who do not fly on aeroplane or get take to museum or theatre , who have never see the King or his palace or Big Ben — in my area , in my constituency of bassetlaw , be too often expect by this place to celebrate a rapidly change world by get to the back of the queue and behave themselves . I be not have that . I drive truck across the channel — the only woman in the driver section on the ferry . small boat — new problem ? the flight case I drive be huge , with ventilation and a false bottom . the border sniffer dog be an infrequent luxury . I regularly run the gauntlet of organised crime and desperate people . my predecessor have the big swing in 2019 . I break the record again but then quickly lose it to even more historic big swing to Labour . I know he like his beer and I applaud his regular support for our local pub , where he can drown his sorrow every time his beloved Notts County football club fail to deliver . I do not know whether he be plan on take up golf , but bassetlaw be the centre of british golf with seven serious golf course , Ryder cup host and star player , and a magnificent municipal golf course . we regularly provide more of the Ryder cup team than entire golfing country and Joe Dean of College Pines golf club show the potential to reach these height at the Open this weekend . from Danny Willett to Matt Fitzpatrick , we continue to grow international golfer — Lee Westwood , our freedom of the borough champion , continue to inspire our young boy and girl . he learn his trade on the council - run golf course , which be open and affordable to all . nobody stop I dream big and that be the bassetlaw I intend to deliver . my style of be an MP will be outcome - base . if I can do it , then so can you . look not only at where you be , but at where you be go . this kid make it here and I put you all on warning : I will be knock on the door that kid in my area do not go through , and they will be come with I , and I can assure you that I will channel my inner Michael Caine for those of you who choose to ignore my knock . the big single crime would be to get here , where people like I be not suppose to be , and merely sit here and make up the number . this kid have only just begin and there be no time to waste . it be inspirational to listen to the story of the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) and her determination to never stop dream . it be also inspirational and fantastic to hear maiden speech from many other . I be interested to hear the competition among some member about the length of pier in seaside town . I hail from the great town of Eastbourne . while some hon . member might have a long pi than mine , it be important to remember that what you do with it be what be most important . on our pier we have caf é s , we have bar and we have a former nightclub , at which I once organise party . we have get it all go on on Eastbourne pier . but it be also an inspiration , look around this House and read about its member , to see and be part of the most diverse Parliament ever : more woman than ever before ; more LGBT people than ever before ; and more Joshes than ever before — this House ' s population of Joshes go from zero to seven overnight on 4 July . that be what we call an open - door policy . if member struggle to remember which Josh I be , I can make it very simple for they : this Josh represent Eastbourne , officially the sunny town in the UK . as an Eastbourne lad bear and breed , it be the honour of my life to represent my home town and in particular to fight to protect service at our local hospital where I be bear , the Eastbourne district general hospital , as our Member of Parliament . I be so grateful to the people of Eastbourne for place their trust in I . gorgeous sunray aside , my town shine brightly in the many other accolade that it hold too . we be the home of the first roller - skate ice rink in the UK in 1875 , the first five - a - side football tournament in 1957 , and the birthplace of the Arctic roll in 1958 . most personally , Eastbourne be the town that make I I . home be not always safe when I be grow up , but thank to a wonderful family who love I , thank to Scout leader at 1st Seaside troop who challenge I , and thank to teacher at cavendish school who believe in I , Eastbourne give I opportunity . in fact , there be a particular supply teacher I have who I want to pay tribute to right now : Caroline Ansell , who go on to become the Conservative MP for Eastbourne and be my predecessor . Mrs Ansell and I first meet in the religious education classroom — room 116 in cavendish school — when I be 15 year old . perhaps she would have give I a detention or two have she know at that time that one day I would come for her next job at the ballot box some year later . but seriously , Caroline dedicate herself to Eastbourne , and I put my recognition of her commitment on the record . I also pay tribute to another predecessor : Stephen Lloyd , my good friend , whose service to our town inspire my own . he be a complete and utter legend . there be another predecessor as the Member of Parliament for Eastbourne whose memory this House can , and must , never forget : Ian Gow , who serve from 1974 until he be appallingly assassinate in 1990 . a few year before my time , Ian Gow be remember and still admire by Eastbournians as an extremely hard - work member of Parliament . the shield that honour he in this House serve as a reminder of his service , his grave sacrifice and our duty to pursue debate and disagreement with civility , respect and peace . turn to the subject of this debate , I want to share a migration story that say a lot about the character of my town . it start on a summer ' s day in 1960 Eastbourne , when a sweet , retired lady , Mrs Baker , notice a curious sight . she see another lady , also white , push a small black boy in a pram . Mrs Baker , curious , strike up a conversation with that woman and ask what be go on . Mrs Baker learn that the boy have be send to live with that woman by a young nigerian couple , and she be care for the boy while the couple study in London . inspire , Mrs Baker say that she would love to do the same . coincidentally , the black boy ' s mother be pregnant again , and be for a third time a couple of year later . baby 2 and 3 be send to live with the Baker family in Eastbourne . they be Toki Babarinde and Wale Babarinde , my uncle and my dad , and it be part of a sort of private fostering arrangement that be not uncommon between west african family and white family at that time , although it be not without its complication . in my dad ' s case , and for his brother too , move to Eastbourne be a ticket to opportunity . they love their upbringing and Eastbourne embrace they . sadly , my uncle Toki die early this year . Sat in the chapel during his funeral , I turn behind I , and among a sea of nigerian face be one white lady also pay her respect : Charmaine Baker from the Baker family . that moment give I goosebump , just like those moment when old - school Eastbournians look at I in all my brownness , all my gayness and all my working - class - rootedness and say , " Josh , you be one of our own . " I share that story to say that while Eastbourne ' s hospitality tradition be often associate with the mighty bucket and spade , they go far deeply . Eastbourne ' s true hospitality tradition be of generosity , welcome , tolerance , multiculturalism and compassion . the story of how I end up in this House be testament to that , and I believe that with those value the same go for our country , regardless of what other member in various place in this House may say . while our town benefit from more sunshine hour than any other in the country , that blare sun sometimes cast shadow , too . I be gutte to say that Eastbourne be also home to the busy food bank in the country . last year , it distribute more food parcel per head than any other food bank in the UK , accord to the Trussell Trust . that be why , work with Eastbourne food bank ' s inspirational ceo , Howard Wardle , I lead Eastbourne to become the first council in the country to declare a cost of live emergency and to unlock emergency funding for those struggle most . it be also why I sincerely believe that the Government should be even more ambitious in lead the fight against poverty by scrap the two - child benefit cap . a compassionate state be by no mean a state that make we soft or weak . in fact , care be power . we can not have enterprise , innovation or justice if we do not have a culture of care and compassion . that have underpin my career ' s work , found and run an organisation support vulnerable young people out of crime , out of gang and into employment . our constituent have send we here to be bold in rebuild and reimagine our great country ' s spirit of have one another ' s back . as Eastbourne ' s MP , I will strive to achieve nothing less . I be honour to deliver my maiden speech , and I thank the wonderful people of Barking who have elect I . if you will indulge I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would also like to thank my wonderful husband , who have be by my side every step of the way . this year , 2024 , have be quite the year for we . with a new baby girl , seven month old , and a general election be call , sleep have not be on our side as a household . but of course it have all be worth it , and I now have the absolute privilege of represent the east London constituency of Barking . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , the right hon . Dame Margaret Hodge , who serve diligently as the Member of Parliament for bark for three decade . Dame Margaret have become know not only for her tenaciousness , but for her warmth . she hold several ministerial post in the last Labour Government and serve as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . from take on and win against the far right in Barking to campaign against tax evasion and avoidance , Dame Margaret be always fiercely brave in stand up for what she think be right , regardless of political party . as I prepare for my maiden speech , I think about some of the parallel between Margaret ' s family and my own . Margaret ' s family be jewish , escape Nazi - occupy Europe , and Margaret herself flee Egypt for the United Kingdom in 1948 in fear of persecution . my grandparent , Osman and Neriman Tango , be of turkish cypriot muslim background . they escape violence in Cyprus , arrive in London on Christmas eve in 1972 . my mum , Alev , be bear in Cyprus in 1967 and be care for in a United Nations tent . the three of they seek safety in the melting pot that be London ' s east end . they speak no English , they have no qualification and no money , but they be safe . as I stand in this Chamber and address hon . member , I can not help but think of my grandfather , my late grandmother and my mum . I do not think my grandparent could have envision that in one generation their granddaughter would be a Member of the mother of all Parliaments . it show what be possible in this country , and I feel so deeply honour to be here . I thank my mum , who teach I and my two sister , Neri and Eda , that we must always try our good , work hard , look after and care for other when they need our help , be grateful for an education , and , when we can , find a way to give back . those be my value , and I know that they be the value hold by family in my constituency . barking and Dagenham be a special community in London and a place that I have come to know and love . many of my constituent have a similar story to my family , with heritage from different part of the world . there be also community in my constituency that have live there for generation , deeply proud of their Barking and Dagenham root — and so they should be . bark constituency be a place with a rich history , whether it be industrial heritage , include the former Barking power station open by King George V , or the UK ' s large council estate build after the first world war as part of the Government ' s " home fit for hero " scheme . now barking be young and more diverse than the London and national average . that be one of the thing that make it such a vibrant place in which to live , but it face challenge . the unemployment rate in the constituency be bad than in any other London borough , and average earning be much low than elsewhere . shamefully , 23 % of child in Barking be live in poverty . economic growth be critical for the whole country , and for my constituent . economic growth be what allow government to invest so that we can all benefit from public service — school , our NHS , frontline service run by local authority , and a welfare system that value dignity for the individual . economic growth mean additional investment in crucial work deliver by child ' s service , tackle youth crime and violence in our community . but economic growth do more than just pay for decent public service ; it can deliver people good , well - pay job that secure a roof over their head , food on the table and hope for the future . it be the only route out of poverty , and indeed it be how my grandparent break away from the cycle of poverty . that be why I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s commitment to economic stability and growth outline in the King ' s speech last week , include plan for a national wealth fund alongside a new deal for work people . I also support the Government ' s commitment to address the housing crisis , especially because it be one of the driver of poverty . the average house price in Barking have go up by 21 % over the last five year , and rent have soar . there be thousand of people in temporary accommodation , and a quarter of my constituent live in the under - regulate private rent sector . that be why the Government ' s plan to bring forward a renter right Bill to end section 21 no - fault eviction be so important for Barking , as be their commitment to speed up planning and infrastructure to get more home build . the King ' s Speech be an agenda from a Government who be on the side of my constituent . it be a plan that give hope to people in this country who for too long have feel abandon . hope for the future , with deliverable plan to improve life , be why I enter politic , and , I be sure , why member on both side of the House enter politic . it be why I serve as a council leader before come to this place , and why I decide to run to be Member of Parliament for Barking . politic be perhaps the great vehicle for change , and it be why this place matter . build more home , give child a well start in life with free breakfast club and more qualified teacher , cut NHS waiting time , lower bill with great British Energy — these thing matter , and they will improve the life of people in my constituency . they be all possible , and only possible , with economic growth . so to the good people of Barking I say : I promise to be on your side . I will represent you faithfully , and I will fight for a well future for barking so that every person have the opportunity to fulfil their potential — something that be possible only if people feel safe in their community . I will always champion public service , and I will stand up for investment so that local people benefit . I be honour to speak in the Chamber , and I will repay that honour by work hard for my constituent as the MP for Barking . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this debate . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) who speak on a subject on which we can all agree — safeguard our woman and child . there have be many excellent contribution today , and it be an honour to follow each and every one of they . in my short time in this House , it have become abundantly clear to I that the most important person be you , Mr Deputy Speaker , with your desire to keep speech and contribution short , and that that be the good way for I to curry favour with you . with that in mind , I shall make my maiden speech . I arrive in this country as a toddler from the heart of Africa to the heart of the midland — Leicester . that city nurture , school and shape I . it would be fair to say that , no matter where I be in the world , there be a corner of a foreign field that be forever Leicester . the vibrancy , the diversity and , occasionally , the complete rawness of the city be the backdrop of my upbringing . I remember very well as a child those free , small , cold bottle of milk that I use to get at school — I remember very well when it be steal from I as well . I remember embark on my life journey with friend from all different creed , colour , religion and no religion , and we make a life for ourselves in this amazing country . I remember also moment of racism . one that come to mind be with my late mother . we be in a park and be set upon by a group of people who hurl abuse and foul thing , include language and object , in our direction . but those incident be supersede by kindness , love and understanding from the great people of this country . as the young child by a distance , I be often refer to by my family member as the mistake , but my mother always refer to I as a miracle , and ever since then I begin to believe it . my mother , who do not get the opportunity of a formal education in her lifetime , ensure all her child make the most of what this country have to offer . it be this mother who , when I suggest when I grow a bit old that I want to study history at university , look at I as if I be about to become history , so , like a dutiful child , I do optometry at university . and that bring I to here . I have check the archive , and it appear I be only the second optometrist to have ever become an MP . so , I hope I can bring a little of my professional skill to help the House to focus on what matter and not be myopic in our decision making . with laser - like reflection , I believe we can bring 20 / 20 vision to matter before we and not make a real spectacle of ourselves . but the serious point be this : with well usage of optometrist , our GP service and our pharmaceutical colleague , we can ease the burden on secondary care in our hospital . we all need to work join up and together . as we be on the topic of health , at this juncture I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Jon Ashworth , a shadow Health Secretary for more than five year before latterly taking on the shadow Paymaster role . he have the honour before I of represent the wonderful Leicester South constituency . in his maiden speech in 2011 , he say it perfectly : " I be privileged to represent a constituency of huge diversity , vibrancy and tolerance , and while we must never be complacent , our community generally live harmoniously together . we be part of a city renowne across the world for welcome incomer . family have come from across the globe to make their home in Leicester South … our diversity " — ethnicity — " enrich our cultural , social and civic life , and contribute immensely to our economy , too . " — [ Official Report , 8 June 2011 ; Vol . 529 , c . 200 - 201 . ] he represent Leicester South with distinction for 13 year and I hope I can live up to the reputation he earn as a dedicated champion for our city . talk of champion , Leicester be the city of champion — another miracle . I be from the city that defy all the odd in the 2015 - 16 season when Leicester City become premier league champion , prove again that miracle can happen . I have be a diehard fan ever since I be a child , when one of our favourite son , Gary Lineker , be still on the bench . we have the Tigers for our rugby force and the Foxes for the cricket , whilst the rider be usually top of the court in basketball , and in Mark Selby we have a snooker world champion . but on a serious note , we must invest in sport facility , not only to continue this rich tradition but to give our youth opportunity to improve their physical and mental wellbeing and occupy their time in positive pursuit . too many of my young constituent tell I they have nothing to do , and we must give they that opportunity . young people also bear the brunt of the housing crisis , and in Leicester we face overcrowd and waiting list of over six year — bad than some London borough . we urgently need more affordable home . leicester — another miracle — be where we find the remain of the last Plantagenet king . the bone of Richard III have be lie undisturbed for over 500 year until they be discover under a car park in 2012 . please do come and visit he at our beautiful cathedral . we be a friendly bunch , regardless of what you may have read and hear about we . to quote Shakespeare , " my heart be ten time light than my look . " my city be a united city . we celebrate all religious festival — Christmas , Diwali , Vaisakhi , even the caribbean carnival — with equal vigour , and have live in harmony for over half a century . however , in recent year fracture have appear , sow by those who wish to divide we , often by weaponise language . I understand that our isle have finite resource , but we must always have infinite empathy , infinite sympathy and an infinite vocabulary to build bridge , not to destroy they . in the word of the great Muslim Sufi poet Rumi , " we must raise our word , not our voice . it be rain that bring forth flower , not thunder . " during my campaign , I be humble : I think I know my city , but I really do not . within my city there be an underbelly , a shadow , a city within a city . while I use to speak about people who have a conflict between eating and heating , during my campaign I meet they . food bank at 11 o ' clock on a Tuesday morning have over 80 people queue , and I be tell that be one of the quiet day they have ever have . we must tackle the cost of live crisis and reduce the wealth inequality in our country . it be not ethical or sustainable for any civilised nation to go on that way . one poignant incident from my campaigning be when I knock at a house and a lady peer through a partially open door . I could not see her whole face , but see enough to see a life of sadness and tragedy . she explain that she have have a relatively successful life , but something have happen a work — a little bit of bullying — and she go into a depression cycle and never really recover . she say to I , " I will vote for you if you can do one of two thing . " what do she ask I ? she say , " if you could just plant I a tree so I can see it , that would make I smile , and if you could get I a fountain so I can see some water trickle , I ' ll vote for you forever . " it be important to remember that it be the simple thing that people want and that make the big difference to their life . they want someone to speak up for they in these corridor of power , to speak about the injustice in the world , to give a voice to those who do not have one , who have no might , authority or power — whether that be the forget in Yemen , the victim of conflict in Sudan , or the victim of the ongoing devastation in Palestine — regardless of where they be in the world . I will always endeavour to speak truth to power and demand that this new Government take action for the poor and dispossess , not just the powerful . finally , if my campaign ever have a catchphrase , it would be the chinese proverb that say , " the good time to plant a tree be 25 year ago , in order to enjoy its beauty , its shade and its fruit , but the next good time be today . " we must plant that seed of unity , equality and justice now to ensure that our future generation can enjoy the fruit of friendship , fairness and peace . I thank the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) ; I be sure many of we will find he a very hard act to follow . I congratulate all the hon . member who have make their opening contribution to this Chamber . I have listen intently and be impress by their passionate delivery and the personal content they have share . from the outset of my speech , I would like to thank my family for the encouragement and strength they have give I on my journey to this place . without their unwavering support , I would not have become a local councillor and then an MP . it be with gratitude , and with enormous pride at be elect as the first ever Member of Parliament for Alloa and Grangemouth , that I take my turn to address the Chamber . I also take this opportunity to highlight my respect for all the candidate who be on the ballot paper . I admire anyone who want to dedicate themselves to public service , and I pay special tribute to Mr John Nicolson . those hon . member who be re - elect to this place a few week ago will all know that Mr Nicholson ' s sartorial elegance be match by his trademark eloquence in this Chamber and in represent the constituent he serve with great distinction . with the Forth run through Alloa and Grangemouth , many people on both side of the river feel it be not a natural constituency , but when we look at the community and town that make it up , our new constituency make perfect sense . clackmannanshire , be the small county in Scotland , be affectionately know as " the wee county , " but be under no illusion : although it be small in size , it be mighty in its industrial heritage . industry be a tradition that stretch right across our constituency . Alva and Tillicoultry be the home of luxury woollen mill . both run along the foot of the impressive and beautiful local hill , as do Menstrie , the westernmost village of the three , which be synonymous with yeast manufacture — vital , of course , for one of Scotland ' s national drink . indeed , alcohol production have be a fixture in Alloa for decade , and it be once regard as Scotland ' s brewery town , but sadly nowadays only a few remain . cross the Forth , we leave Scotland ' s brewery town behind and come to Grangemouth , which be once know as Scotland ' s boom town . the Grangemouth refinery start operate in 1924 . this be the centenary year mean that it should really be a time of great celebration , but it have be announce that refining oil in Grangemouth be to stop — possibly as soon as May 2025 . what happen next to the Grangemouth refinery will reverberate around all our constituency . oil will be part of the energy mix for year to come — that be a fact — but we also know that we need to accelerate the clean , green energy industry that will combat climate issue , low our bill , increase national security and reindustrialise community . the term " just transition " have enter the modern lexicon , but many people I speak with while out campaigning do not know what it actually mean . it simply mean move from one industry to another without leave worker and their community behind to deal with devastating economic and social consequence . historically , many worker in Alloa and Grangemouth have be victim of deindustrialisation and so - call market force in a system that have value profit over people and create a society of gross inequality . we be at a crossroad . we know what will happen if Grangemouth stop refine before a new industrial cluster be ready . it would mean that hundred of worker lose their job , worker and family have to leave their community in search of work , and the pub , caf é s and shop of Grangemouth all lose custom . allow a gap between cease refining and the new greener energy be operational be as unfair as it be unpalatable . Grangemouth can not go from be boom town to ghost town . in the past few week , my Government colleague have engage with the union , the company involve with the refinery and the Scottish Government , and we be commit to exhaust all possibility of make Grangemouth the site that we all need it to be . my constituency be call Alloa and Grangemouth , but it be also my honour to represent Larbert , Stenhousemuir and many surround village across both the Falkirk and Clackmannanshire council area . as a football fan , it would be remiss of I not to mention one of Sauchie ' s favourite son : multiple european cup winner , scottish internationalist and respected pundit Alan Hansen . I know that the House will join I in express relief at his recovery from a recent health scare . it would also be remiss of I not to congratulate Stenhousemuir football club — the Warriors — on their league championship win last season . I be very much look forward to the Alloa and Grangemouth constituency derby between Alloa Athletic and Stenhousemuir FC in league one next year . on the subject of sport , before come to this place I be a golf professional . it might not seem it at first , but be a golf professional have transferable skill for be an MP . the building of relationship , the creation of rapport , serve people and try to improve thing for they be skill that will stand I in good stead in this place — also , work in golf for 23 year have get I use to deal with Tories . work in golf be fantastic : it take I to place that I would never have be and allow I to speak with people I would never have meet . we truly be rich when we encounter people from other part of the world and learn about their culture and custom . that apply not just when we go to different place ; it also benefit we here in Britain when we welcome people into our community . our community need action that improve people ' s life and give they not just hope but the route out of struggle . rest assure , I will work with local business , charity and third - sector organisation in my constituency , and with UK Government colleague and counterpart from the Scottish Government , to deliver the change that people need . I know that my voice carry the necessary weight to bring about that change — not because of who I be , but because of the position I hold . the people of Alloa and Grangemouth have give I the responsibility to use my voice , and I intend to do so for the benefit of everyone from every community across the constituency that I be so proud to represent . it be my honour to stand in this Chamber as the Member of Parliament for the beautiful town of Cheltenham , and it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . I heartily commend what he say about Alan Hansen , who I watch on television on many occasion as a young football fan . since last summer , when my wife return to work after maternity leave , I have be enjoy the unusual combine role of wannabe Member of Parliament and stay - at - home dad . they tell I it be a job require endless patience , a great deal of tolerance , the ability to understand almost inhuman form of communication and boundless enthusiasm for clear up a never - end supply of mess — and I hear a toddler can be tough , too . I want to start by give thank to some of the people and group that have make the past year so joyful for I : Baby Bounce and Rhyme at Cheltenham library , and in particular Heather , who lead the singing ; Andrea and Mary at Highbury church playgroup ; and Sophie at Little note . my experience over the past year have reinforce my view about the challenge I already know so many parent face , and I have meet many new parent in the corridor over the past couple of week . I will always speak up in this place for child , include my own offspring — so , Elodie , if you be at home watch I drone on , please tell Granny to put " the Wiggles " on instead . I offer my sincere thank to the former Justice Secretary , Alex Chalk , the first Member of Parliament for Cheltenham to serve in Cabinet . conservative Members should note his wise word on the prison population : that we should follow the evidence , not the dogma . but such praise for my predecessor be perhaps well communicate through the word of one member of House staff , who upon be introduce to I as Alex ' s replacement , respond with a line that really hit home and will last with I forever : " oh , that ' s a shame . he be nice . " luckily , I be not easily offend , and I will try to be nice too . I also thank two of my political mentor , Martin Horwood and Nigel Jones . both be past mps for Cheltenham who make an indelible impact on I and on our town . my predecessor know what I know : that Cheltenham be full of big - hearted people whose community spirit and love of hospitality , the art and culture make it a special place to be . we have so many festival , include literature , horse racing , poetry , music , jazz , food , cricket and science — I could go on — that we be know as the festival town . we live in a food and drink paradise : we have excellent pub , bar , cafe and restaurant , as well as the DEYA brewery and Dunkertons cider . we be the home of Holst , of Superdry and of the polar explorer Edward Wilson , but there be more . local historian record that Cheltenham be the site of the first parachute descent . in 1838 , John Hampton jump out of a hot air balloon 9 , 000 foot above the town and glide to earth under an umbrella - like contraption . at this point , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be get too excited , so I will leave it there . Cheltenham ' s rich cultural tapestry be interweave with generously proportion park and garden , and be surround by beautiful Regency architecture and roll hill . it truly be a feast for all the sense , and our school be first - rate , too . education be at the heart of our town ' s value — it be on the town crest . I be so proud to have be elect for the town I love at the second attempt . that second - time success follow a trend in my relationship with Cheltenham . first impression be clearly not my thing , and they could have lead to a very different path in my life . in fact , my first job interview in Cheltenham — many year ago , when I have a full head of hair — be so bad that not only be I not offer the job , but when the boss call back week later , have apparently be turn down by all the other candidate , the start salary have suffer a rapid cut of around 10 % . member will know that that be a spending power reduction that even the former Member for South West Norfolk would struggle to match in her most strident moment . I take the job anyway , of course , because you do not turn down the chance to move to Cheltenham . I be proud to have already keep my first promise as a Member of Parliament . I have join the Robins Trust , which support Cheltenham Town FC . they remain a division ahead of Forest Green Rovers , despite be relegate last season — with my apology to the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . I have lead campaign already to invest in affordable housing in Cheltenham , to fight climate change and to support food bank , because we have they . it be a disgrace that a town as wealthy as Cheltenham have more than 700 people use food bank regularly . we have a unique scheme in Cheltenham where food bank user also get free access to the leisure centre . I would recommend that all member try to roll that out in their area . however , if there be one priority I will pursue relentlessly , it will be undo the harm cause to our local health service these past few year . alongside the word " education " , our town crest also feature the world " health " . I will defend our local hospital , and I will campaign on primary care , too . one matter of vital importance link this place and Cheltenham be GCHQ . their work be secret and they never ask for our thank , but thousand of people in Cheltenham work hard for we every single day . if I may veer dangerously close to policy for a maiden speech , I be pleased to see that the cyber security and resilience Bill will be come before Parliament . this be a huge opportunity to update the UK ' s cyber law by reform the Computer Misuse Act 1990 , and that will help well defend our cyber - defender who work so hard for we in Cheltenham . it be with those issue and more in mind that I be accost at Paddington station the night before my first day here . I be lose in thought , and a tourist approach I and say , " excuse I , Sir . how do you get to Westminster ? " I be of course delight to be recognise by a member of the public so early in my political career , so I decide to give he the full benefit of my political story . after about 15 minute , I have be through all my good campaign , my door - knock technique , the good leaflet I have ever deliver , and I be just tell he about do aqua aerobics with our leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton , in our iconic Sandford Park lido . sadly , I have get it wrong . he interject , " sorry , friend ; I just want to know which tube line to take . " that be a cautionary tale for all new member : let we not get ahead of ourselves . we be here for our constituency first and foremost , and for I it will be Cheltenham first every time . I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on his excellent maiden speech , and I be pleased to follow he . it be a great honour to be elect to this House to serve the people of Bridgwater . I thank they for put their trust in I . Bridgwater be a most diverse constituency . it combine the three historic town of North Petherton , Burnham - on - Sea and Highbridge , and Bridgwater itself . the constituency run from the coastal village of Berrow and Brean in the north to the village of Nether Stowey and Enmore in the foothill of the Quantocks in the west and Middlezoy and Othery on the Somerset level in the east . the battle of Sedgemoor be fight near Westonzoyland in 1685 . it be the end of Monmouth ' s rebellion and we should all be grateful that it be the last battle fight on english soil . Bridgwater be one of the original borough to send elect member to this House in 1295 , although it be not an unbroken record . in the 1868 general election the two liberal candidate defeat the two conservative candidate by just 44 vote . such be the evidence of bribery and corruption — on both side , I must add — that the two mp be unseated and the borough disenfranchise . a royal commission later find that over £ 1 , 500 , more than £ 200 , 000 in today ' s money , have be spend on bribe . Mr Deputy Speaker , I can assure you that I have pay particular care to my election expense . Bridgwater have a radical tradition . one of our most famous son be Admiral Robert Blake , regard by many as the father of the Royal Navy . he represent both Bridgwater and Taunton in this House in the 17th century and fight on the side of Parliament in the civil war . another of my radical predecessor be Vernon Bartlett , who win the seat in the 1938 by - election in what at the time be a remarkable defeat of the Conservative Government . he stand as an independent progressive , endorse by both the labour and liberal party , oppose to the Munich agreement . in this country , we often credit Winston Churchill for his opposition to the policy of appeasement of Nazi Germany , but it be less remember that the Labour party under Attlee , Bevin and Dalton be the strong opponent of that disastrous policy . I be sure that all member , but especially Labour Members , will be mindful of their party ' s proud history of oppose appeasement as this Government decide how to support Ukraine and how good to deter future russian aggression in Europe . I pay tribute to my predecessor from the two former constituency that make up the new seat of Bridgwater . James Heappey be the former Member for Wells . he stand down at the last election , and he be well like and respect in Burnham and Highbridge . he serve with distinction at the Ministry of Defence . he be also a kind and helpful colleague when I be select as a candidate , and I thank he for his service . Ian Liddell - Grainger represent Bridgwater and West Somerset for 23 year and be remember for the support he give our rural community follow the terrible flooding in Somerset during the winter of 2013 - 14 . Ian visit the affected area every week and persuade David Cameron to visit Somerset to witness the devastation for himself . it have not be forget that the former Prime Minister turn up without wellington boot . Ian lead the campaign for a barrage over the River Parrett , which be now in the early stage of construction . I will continue his work to ensure we dredge our river and maintain our defence , so that we minimise the threat of flooding . I also want to mention Tom King , now Lord King , who represent Bridgwater for 31 year , until 2001 . it be a mark of the respect and affection in which he be hold that his name be mention so many time on the doorstep during my campaign . Tom also write a helpful endorsement say why people should vote for I , which only go to show how wise he be . Bridgwater be an industrial town . it have many small business , and I will do all I can to support they . we need to encourage entrepreneurial spirit , because that be how we create prosperity for all our citizen . we welcome thousand of tourist every year to enjoy our beautiful Somerset coastline . I want to encourage those tourist to spend long in Somerset , to visit more of our beautiful countryside and to consume more of the excellent produce from our farmer and grower . Bridgwater be also the home of the Guy Fawkes carnival , the UK ' s old carnival , and one of the large illuminated carnival procession in Europe . hundred of volunteer work tirelessly to create this fantastic spectacle and to raise thousand of pound for charity . much have be achieve for Bridgwater and for Somerset over the past 14 year . Hinkley Point C be be construct and will provide secure and low - carbon energy to the whole region for generation . the electricity it produce will power Gravity , the smart campus where Agratas will build one of Europe ' s large gigafactorie . these two project will provide job and opportunity for year to come . the town of Bridgwater be award £ 23 million under the previous Government ' s town deal initiative . that will fund many important local project , include restore our historic dock and refurbish the art centre and the town hall theatre , but there be more to do . I will work with our new police and crime commissioner to tackle the antisocial behaviour that affect our town . I will campaign to protect Pawlett Hams and stop it be turn into an unwanted salt marsh by the Environment Agency . I will keep the promise I make during the campaign to Aaron Reid , the headteacher of Haygrove school it be one of the top - perform school in Somerset , but also one of three school in England build by Caledonian Modular and now condemn as unsafe . the last Government promise to rebuild Haygrove , and I trust that the new Government will honour that promise . I will support the school as we work with the council and the new Government to find a solution that benefit the pupil and staff of Haygrove . I be proud to have be elect by the people of Bridgwater . I will serve they faithfully and to the good of my ability . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to give my maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) on his powerful and witty speech . I must also congratulate in particular my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his excellent speech , too . as a former professional golfer , it be fitting that he win his seat on such a huge swing , and his brilliant speech show we why . the bar have be set intimidatingly high in this debate . I feel all the more honoured to be elect by the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife to be their representative in the House and follow in the footstep of predecessor who serve the constituency with such distinction . I pay tribute to the outgoing MP , Peter Grant , who serve with such commitment and so diligently on behalf of his constituent . he will rightly be proud in particular of his contribution to the successful campaign for the reintroduction of the Levenmouth rail link both as Fife council leader and as an MP , for his service on the Public Accounts Committee and for campaign for the right of victim of financial scandal through his role on the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fair financial service . I also pay tribute to Peter ' s predecessor , Lindsay Roy , who be such a brilliant MP for the constituency . today , Lindsay be a tireless advocate for Parkinson ' s UK , make the case with passion and eloquence for improved support for people with Parkinson ' s and for investment in medical research . his example should not only give hope to people with Parkinson ' s ; he be an inspiration to we all . I be a new member in this Parliament , but I be privileged to serve in the Scottish Parliament for 12 year . I have already observe some of the difference between Holyrood and here . this institution be old and often more complex — as indeed be many of its member — and there be many procedure and protocol to learn , but while there be difference between the Parliaments , the purpose we have be a common one : to serve our constituent . we have hear over the past week how it be vital to have strong relationship between the UK Government and the devolved administration . that be of course true . however , I believe that there be still too few opportunity for member of each of our UK Parliaments to work together on many matter of share responsibility and interest . I hope that there can be great collaboration between all our parliamentarian in the course of the next five year . on a personal note , may I say that I be proud that my wife Claire Baker continue to serve the people of Mid Scotland and Fife in the Scottish Parliament with such skill and dedication ? I be delighted that Claire and our daughter Catherine could be in the Gallery when I be swear in . I have also be greatly privileged to work for disability charity in my time away from elect politic . for the past two year , I have work with the charity Enable in a role support people with learn disability on campaign for their right , not to speak on their behalf but to support they to be their own advocate for change as expert by experience . in the medium , in public forum and in Parliaments , enable member ambassador have tell their own story and powerfully argue the case for a more equal society . the need to tackle these inequality be clear when people with learning disability have a life expectancy of 20 year less than the rest of the population , only about 7 % be in pay employment , they have few opportunity in education and they be twice as likely to experience bullying . I will miss work with they , but I will not miss the opportunity in this Parliament to make our country a fairer and a more equal place for disabled people . I will also not miss the opportunity to be a champion in the Chamber for the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife . the constituency stretch across Fife , from Methil , Buckhaven and the Wemyss village on the coast to ancient Markinch and the new town of Glenrothes , and from Kinglassie and Cardenden and the village of Benarty to Lochgelly and Kelty . those and other community in the constituency have their own history and priority , but so many be link by their proud connection to the mining industry . that be why the decision by this Government to end the injustice of the miner ' pension scheme , so that fund in the scheme be keep for its beneficiary , will be so important for so many of my constituent . the community of my constituency can look back on a proud industrial heritage , but it be vital that they can also look forward to their future as a hub for innovation , technology and our grow renewable sector . the biomass plant at Markinch , the hydrogen for domestic energy pilot at Buckhaven , and the Fife energy park at Methil be all example of how our constituency can benefit from the exciting plan for GB Energy and our goal for Scotland to play a lead role in make Britain a green energy powerhouse . we have to seize this opportunity . buckhaven and Methil have the high number of deprive community in Fife , which be why we have to realise the ambition for the area and increase employment through expansion in renewable . it be vital that UK Ministers work collaboratively with management , union , the Scottish Government and Fife council to ensure that despite the financial difficulty of Harland & Wolff , which operate the fabrication yard at Methil , the 200 skilled job and apprenticeship at the yard be secure , along with its infrastructure and facility . that skilled workforce and the facility at the yard will be instrumental in realise Fife ' s ambition to be a thriving hub for the renewable sector in Scotland . it mean so much to I to be give the chance to be a champion for our part of Scotland . my mother be a teacher at Beath High , the school attend by one of our most celebrated novelist Sir Ian Rankin , who grow up in Cardenden in the constituency . in Sir Ian ' s book " Set in Darkness " , Inspector Rebas carry out criminal investigation at the Scottish Parliament . we can only wonder where he find inspiration for the plot of his novel , but I be sure we can all agree that Fife can be proud to call one of our fine writer one of our own . I also know how resilient our community can be , and how we can look to well day even after the tough of time . when I be grow up in Fife , my father be a vicar in Lochgelly during the miner ' strike . my father - in - law Jim be a proud member of the National Union of Mineworkers . when I stand for election to this place in 2015 , he give I a miner ' s lamp to bring with I to Westminster if I win , to remind I what I be here to do . I be not elect in 2015 , and after that election nearly 10 year ago , many would have think that the flame of the Labour and trade union movement be fragile and flickering , but today in this Parliament it burn bright than ever . ten year later , the lamp will be with I here in Westminster , and it will remind I why I be here : to deliver the change that our country need and to show that , through political action , we can deliver the strong , fair society that so many people in my constituency give so much to achieve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech during this important debate on the King ' s Speech , which set out the agenda of change that the country vote for and which this Labour Government will deliver . I congratulate all new member who have make maiden speech today . it be the honour of my life to represent my home of Hastings and Rye . I know that you be very familiar , Madam Deputy Speaker , with all that we in Hastings and Rye have to offer visitor — especially our famous fish and chip . in recent year , our fisherman have work hard to keep our local fishing industry go in the most difficult of circumstance , and they will always have my full support . Hastings and Rye host the world crazy golf championship every year , and we also hold the world record for the big gathering of pirate in any one place — a record that we try to beat every year on pirate day . although one of my predecessor in represent rye be himself a real pirate , I be relieve to say that that can not be say for many of they . Sally - Ann Hart work extremely hard for our constituency , and I thank she in particular for her work in support of woman and child flee domestic abuse — a legacy that I hope to build on . another thing that we wholeheartedly agree on be speak out about the unacceptable level of abuse and intimidation that too many member of this House have face , particularly woman . the plaque of the late Jo Cox be face we , and that of Sir David Amess be behind I . they be a constant and tragic reminder of where that can end . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Michael Foster . he be well know in our area for help so many resident and for have be a passionate champion for Hastings and Rye during his time in this House . many member will know our area for a very famous battle that take place in 1066 . historian may still be argue about where exactly it take place , but it be safe to say that it have cement our place in the history book . since then , we have continue to play our part in british history — from be immortalise in the novel " the Ragged Trousered Philanthropists " to be the birthplace of television . perhaps what define we most , though , be our community spirit , underpin by our volunteer and charity , who do so much . our calendar be full of carnival and festival , from Jack in the Green to bonfire night . those event be make possible only by volunteer who give up their time to give back to the community and raise money for our local charity . volunteer also maintain and protect so many of our amazing public space , from Hastings country park to Rye harbour nature reserve and Camber Sands . there be also some point of our history that we would rather forget , such as the unveiling of a certain stone tablet in Hastings during the 2015 general election campaign by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . that stone may have be consign to history , but I know that my right hon . friend will be back very soon to unveil some new green energy infrastructure , and that it will be long - last than the stone . although we have often find ourselves at the centre of historical event , we have not always feel all of the benefit . our road and rail infrastructure be stick in the past : we may be a similar distance from London as Brighton be , but our train line take twice as long . we lie at the end of the A21 , a road that have be describe as the least develop in the south - east of England . as any driver will tell you , we have the bad pothole in the country , and our water infrastructure be also fail we : Southern Water have a lot to answer for in my constituency , dump record level of sewage along our coastline from St Leonards through Hastings to Fairlight , Pett , Camber Sands and Winchelsea beach . some sewage have even come into people ' s home and garden in my constituency , and when the water pipe have fail , we have face major flooding in home and the town centre and be leave without a water supply for day on end . I be pleased to see that the water special measure Bill , which will start to clean up our water industry , be part of this King ' s Speech . the cratered state of our road and crumble water infrastructure be symbolic of how we have too often be forget by Westminster . life expectancy be low than the national average , a trend that have get bad over the past 14 year . People wait long for an ambulance in my constituency than anywhere else in the south - east of England , and the situation be particularly bad in our village and rural area such as Winchelsea , where people wait 45 minute on average when have a stroke or heart attack . that be why this Government ' s plan to cut NHS waiting time can not come soon enough . as a seaside destination , our area have benefit hugely from tourism , but we be also at the sharp end of the housing crisis , with spiral rent and simply not enough home be build . too many of my constituent be leave in poor - quality rental accommodation , whether by Southern Housing or private landlord . that be why I so welcome the measure in this King ' s Speech to get Britain build again , build more home and give all renter more protection . this Government have a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . that be sorely need in my constituency , where almost 40 % of child be grow up in poverty and over half our young people be leave school without the essential qualification of a grade 4 in English and math . how we treat our child say a lot about we as a society ; before join this House , I have the privilege of see that up close in many different country as an aid worker with Save the Children . it be always child who suffer the most in war and conflict . I have sit with young mum in Yemen hold their starve baby , so hungry that they do not have the energy to cry , and have hear harrowing story from Rohingya woman who have flee ethnic cleansing and sexual violence at the hand of the Myanmar military . I always promise those woman that I would share their story with the world , and my time in this place will be no different . we be at a time in history when more child be grow up in conflict than ever before . rightly , much focus have be devote recently to the appalling event in Israel and Palestine — there , too , it be child bear the brunt of war . we must redouble our effort to bring about peaceful solution to all these conflict , and must remember that all the global issue we face , from climate change to migration , can only be solve by work across border with our international ally and through strong , multilateral institution such as the United Nations . just as I have be so inspire by the woman I have meet live in some of the tough place on Earth , I also want to acknowledge some of the woman whose shoulder I stand on close to home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know I speak for many Labour Members when I say how much we miss your sister , the late , great Baroness Margaret McDonagh . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she always have such wise counsel to offer we , and that be the reason why many of we sit on these Benches today . I also thank my family and friend for all the support they have give I in get I to this place . this King ' s Speech will begin to deliver the change and renewal that Hastings and Rye vote for . I look forward to work hard for all my constituent across Hastings and Rye and deliver that much - need change .