I be pleased to be able to respond to this vital debate , which in both tone and importance have be one of the good I have hear in my two year in this place . I also add my thank to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for bring forward the Opposition day motion today , because this issue be clearly of concern to many member , and they be right to be concern . the right hon . member be one of many right hon . and hon . member to have make important contribution and speak with great passion on this crucial issue . the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) and for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and other rightly speak about the important role that million of family carer play in provide support for disabled or elderly relative who need care at home . I echo those comment and add my own tribute to all family carer . much of their tireless work go unseen and unrecognised . like other member , I be privileged to witness glimpse of carer ' dedication through my correspondence and through event I attend in my constituency . run through today ' s debate be an underlying and understandable anger at the position we inherit from the last government , whereby family carer try to do the right thing have be leave with staggering overpayment , often run into thousand of pound . as my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) set out early , we be make sure that we understand precisely what have go wrong so that we can put the system right for the long term . our family carer deserve no less . many member , include the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) and for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , my hon . friend the Members for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , and of course my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton , speak about their own experience as carer or the work they do locally to support organisation help family carer . I grow up watch my grandmother care for my grandad , struggle with Parkinson ' s disease , before later see my mum , one of the many hidden carer up and down the land , care for her mother — my nana — in her final year battle Alzheimer ' s disease . none of we in this House be blind to the work that carer do . they be fortunate to have some wonderful advocate . those include their mp , as we have see today , but also organisation such as Carers UK , the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , to name but three . the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I have already meet a delegation of carer and Carers UK , and he will be do so again shortly . he will also meet separately with the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , because we be determined to ensure that the voice of family carer and the organisation support they be at the heart of everything we do . I also want to pay tribute to the hundred of DWP staff , largely base in the north - west , who provide financial support to a million family carer through carer ' s allowance , day in , day out . the Government will spend record amount to support unpaid carer . real - term expenditure on carer ' s allowance be forecast to rise from £ 4 . 2 billion in 2024 - 25 to just over £ 4 . 7 billion a year by 2028 - 29 . I turn to some of the other point raise during the debate , with apology that time will permit I to address only some of they . let I take the opportunity to congratulate and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) on their excellent maiden speech . they paint vivid picture of their constituency and I feel certain that they will go on to make significant contribution in this place . on the wide point , I will begin with the question of the adequacy of carer ' s allowance , set as it be at £ 151 per week . carer ' s allowance will be increase in April 2025 by the consumer price index to help ensure that it maintain its value . as well as carer ' s allowance , carer in low - income household can claim income - relate benefit such as universal credit and pension credit . those can be pay to carer at a high rate than to those without care responsibility through the carer element and the additional amount for carer respectively . for example , over 750 , 000 carer household on universal credit can already receive an additional £ 2 , 400 a year through the carer element . that say , the House should be aware that issue beyond the scope of the independent review announce today be not be ignore ; this be merely a first step towards progress . the Government be also look at the broad question of how to provide the good possible support for family carer , although I do not want to pre - empt that work today . let I turn to the question of a taper , which be raise by a number of right hon . and hon . member . at the moment , introduce a taper in carer ' s allowance would significantly complicate the benefit , with award have to be adjust manually on a weekly basis for some of those declare earning . that would add to administrative cost and could mean more fraud and error . those also receive universal credit would need to have that adjust if their payment of carer ' s allowance change because of an earning taper rate . a taper could be introduce only follow significant change to the IT system that support payment of carer ' s allowance . for the moment , therefore , it be not possible . on the potential writing off of overpayment , which be at the heart of many of the excellent contribution that we hear , an overpayment can occur through fraud , or through claimant or official error . the Secretary of State have an obligation to protect public fund and ensure that , wherever possible , overpayment be recover , but determine what good we can do to support those who have accrue overpayment be within the scope of the independent review , as be how such overpayment occur and what we can do to ensure that we take all the step we can to reduce the risk of such incident happen again . let I turn briefly to the comment of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . he list the many intervention that the last government supposedly make to improve the lot of carer — seemingly include the private Member ' s Bill of the hon . member for North East Fife — but after 14 year of conservative government , we see carer who find themselves in heartbreaking situation have rack up huge overpayment . however , the right hon . Gentleman correctly set out the incredibly complex nature of the carer ' s allowance system , with allowance for legitimate expense , pension contribution and so on , and why resolve this matter be therefore not straightforward . that be why the independent review be the correct mechanism and next step to fully understand what go wrong and why , and how we can put thing right . I welcome his support for the review . many colleague refer to the role that family carer play in ease pressure on the social care system , and indeed in support our economy , and they be entirely right to do so . I acknowledge everything that carer do . they be hero . we appreciate how much society rely on unpaid carer , we recognise the challenge they face and we understand the need for change . support carer be both a moral and an economic imperative , so we will help carer stay in pay work , we be spend record amount on carer ' s allowance and we will sort out the overpayment scandal we inherit . that be why we have announce the independent review today : so that , together , we can rebuild the trust that have be lose and ensure that those who offer comfort , dignity and support to the one they love be give all the help they need in return . I hope right hon . and hon . member will acknowledge that work today by support the Government amendment . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question .