Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — New town what step she be take to build new town . what recent progress she have make on the new town programme . our vision for the next generation of new town be set the stage for a house building revolution in the year to come . these will be well - connect , attractive place with all the infrastructure and service need to sustain thriving community , include public transport , GP surgery and school . Bracknell be designate a new town 76 year ago in the aftermath of world war two , and it have be a huge success , in part because of the way it be design , with leisure facility , access to nature and transport link build into the town ' s dna . as the Government look to build the next generation of new town , will my right hon . friend commit to learn from the new town that go before ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . there be a lot to admire from the past , include in new town such as Bracknell . we be learn the lesson from the past for our next generation of new town , to ensure that they be well connected , well design , sustainable and attractive place , where people want to live , and it be important that they have the infrastructure , amenity and service that they need to thrive . the housing crisis be an issue in not just our city centre but our rural community . a new town would be excellent for our area of South Norfolk . it would help tackle our local housing crisis and ensure that we could deliver affordable housing for local people , where they need it . I agree with my hon . friend that the housing crisis be a challenge across the whole of England . the independent new town taskforce be review submission to the call for evidence as it continue its work on recommend location for new town . the response to the call for evidence will support the taskforce ' s work of develop its recommendation , and the response demonstrate significant enthusiasm across the country . our local paper , the Echo , reveal last week that Labour - lead Southend council and Lib Dem - lead Rochford council be plan to build a new town of up to 10 , 000 house on the border between the two . I understand that if this be do under the new town fund , those number would be in addition to Rochford ' s housing target , rather than make up part of the target . we would be talk about build nearly 20 , 000 property by 2043 , which be totally unsustainable , give that our infrastructure be creak as it be . can the Secretary of State confirm whether those new - town house on the Rochford side would go towards our meeting the target or be in addition to it ? we have not select the position for the new town ; the new town taskforce be still work on those . we have be clear that what the new town will deliver will be over and above the target for housing produce through the standard method , but this be not one of those new town , because we have not choose they yet . in the new town of Sherford , which be already be build in my constituency , there will be up to 5 , 500 new home build over the come year . however , there be challenge around FirstPort , the delay delivery of a supermarket and other vital local amenity , and delay and escalate cost relate to the delivery of a new gp surgery . also , National Grid pylon be be move to make way for further new home , at enormous cost to the taxpayer . what conversation be the Secretary of State have with key provider of national infrastructure , include the NHS and National Grid , to ensure that such obstacle be remove , so that these home can be build ? we be bring forward the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , as the hon . member know , and we have set mandatory target . unlike the previous Government , we believe that infrastructure have to come through this process , and we be work across Government to ensure that . we be already push far on section 106 notice in our work with developer . we be tell they that we want the house , need the infrastructure , and want they to do this properly . new home : sustainability what step she be take to ensure that new home be sustainable . what plan she have to build more sustainable housing . the Government be commit to ensure that the 1 . 5 million new home that we will build during this Parliament will be high - quality , well design and sustainable . we intend to amend building regulation later this year as part of the introduction of future standard that will set more ambitious energy efficiency and carbon emission requirement for new home . I thank the Minister for his response . while visit the Netherlands with the Environmental Audit Committee , I see the benefit of long - term , join - up , strategic planning . in Rotterdam city centre , rooftop garden provide mental health benefit and allotment space , while at ground level , sunken community space and underground car park mitigate flooding . the Tewkesbury garden town will bring 4 , 000 new home to my constituency . will the Minister meet I and stakeholder who support the garden town , so that we can set the standard for development across the country ? the approach of the Netherlands , not least to spatial planning and design standard , have much to commend it , but we would need a stand - alone debate to do that subject justice . as for the Tewkesbury garden community , they be precisely the kind of sustainable and infrastructure - lead development that the Government want to see more of , and that we be back through legislation and policy . I would be more than happy to meet the hon . member and local stakeholder to discuss what more might be do to deliver on the aspiration set out in the Tewkesbury garden community charter , which be publish last year . last week , I visit Howgate close housing development in eakre in my constituency , and I be proud to say that the home be the most energy - efficient in the country . it would be easy to assume that house such as those cost a fortune , but what be remarkable about that development be that they be affordable , include for some of the most vulnerable in our society . do the Minister agree that it be vital that energy - efficient home be affordable and accessible to everyone , and will he come with I to visit eakre to see that incredible development ? it may not surprise hon . member to hear that I be indeed aware of the nine high thermal mass building that have be construct for rent at Howgate Close , and I commend the site owner , Dr Parsons , for championing such high - quality , sustainable development on his land . we need to ensure that all new home be future - proof , with low - carbon heating and very high - quality building fabric , include those make available for local people at affordable rent . I will ensure that my hon . friend ' s request for a Minister to visit Howgate Close be give due consideration . I genuinely thank the Minister for the time he take to meet I and the chairman of a local resident ' association in an apartment block to discuss the problem of build new home on top of exist apartment block , if the work be do badly . have he draw any conclusion from that meeting about how to safeguard against unsuitable and unsustainable development of that sort ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question ; we have a very productive discussion about the issue that he highlight . I think he acknowledge some of the bad outcome that we have see from the previous Government ' s expansion of permit development right since 2013 . we be keep the matter under review , and I be more than happy to have another conversation with he as we far consider policy in this area . as we build new home , it be important that we make sure that exist home be as safe as they can be . I recently meet representative of a lead fire safety business in my constituency , who tell I of the unacceptably long delay that it face from the Building Safety Regulator . will the Minister meet I and my local business to discuss those delay , and how we can tackle they ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . the newly establish Building Safety Regulator be crucial to uphold building safety standard , but I acknowledge that its operation be cause delay in handle application for some building project . she will be aware that in February , the Government allocate £ 2 million to the BSR to accelerate the processing of application . we be work closely with the regulator to support the plan for improved delivery , and we will continue to keep its performance under review . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s much - laud policy of build 1 . 5 million new sustainable home have be doom from the start of this Parliament , and we now have that confirm , with the Chancellor say last week that only 1 . 3 million home will be deliver by the end of this Parliament . but it be bad than that . office for Budget Responsibility figure show that only 1 . 06 million home will be build in England , which be 500 , 000 few than the Government ' s target , and around 200 , 000 few than the last Conservative Government build in the past five year . will the Minister confirm that the goalpost have move , and that Labour will not meet its target for housing in this country ? I be very fond of the hon . Gentleman , but I be afraid that , characteristically , he have get this one completely wrong . the 1 . 3 — [ interruption . ] will the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) give I time to answer ? the OBR estimate that our change to the national planning policy framework alone will increase house building to 1 . 3 million . that do not take into account the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , and the other change come forward . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) be simply wrong . we be on course for 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament . Housing Supply what step she plan to take to support house building in London . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of housing . our country be in the midst of a housing crisis , decade in the making . as our plan for change set out , the Government be commit to the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation . we have already take decisive action to increase the supply of new home , with bold reform to the planning system and the launch of the new home accelerator programme , which will unblock thousand of home stick in the planning system . in the spring statement , we announce a £ 2 billion down payment to deliver up to 18 , 000 new social and affordable home , and we be invest £ 600 million in training for new construction job . demand for housing be great in London , which be where the economy most need new home . build in London mean less pressure on commute infrastructure and house price in place like rural Kent , but the housing target for London have be cut . the Government justify that by say that London have " the big propose percentage increase against delivery " . — [ Official Report , 12 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 1067 . ] why be the right hon . Lady reward the London Mayor ' s failure to build Britain ' s most need house with low target ? we be ask London to deliver record level of house building . our revised standard method set the housing need for London at nearly 88 , 000 home per year . the previous Government artificially boost target for London use an extra 35 % urban uplift . that result in a target of nearly 100 , 000 home — a third of the previous national target — which could not be justify . the London Mayor have start build more new council home than at any time since the 1970 . he be get on with building home while the Tories have fail and be the blocker . with around 1 . 3 million people on housing register in England , it be vital that we achieve a step change in the supply of housing , particularly social housing , over this Parliament ; however , in my constituency and across the north - west , housing association be manage many age , low - quality home that require ongoing investment and maintenance . home for the North warn that many of these property will become uninhabitable and unsuitable for social housing over the next decade . what consideration have my right hon . friend give to target the renewal of social housing , such as through pool funding with money for decarbonisation , so that register social landlord can use the money flexibly to combine retrofit , demolition and new build ? that would drive regeneration and reduce carbon emission . my hon . friend be right to highlight the absolute mess that the previous Government leave our housing stock in . we will ensure the big increase in social house building in a generation , and provide safe , warm and decent home , by introduce minimum energy efficiency standard and review the decent home standard . recent funding include £ 1 . 29 billion for the warm home social housing fund , £ 800 million in top - up to the current affordable home programme , and a £ 2 billion down payment on the future programme , which will be use for regeneration project that will result in a net increase in the number of home . the housing number for London be cut by 20 % by the Government , but again and again we find in Hansard the Secretary of State assert that 1 . 5 million home will be build during this Parliament in England . why do the Chancellor tell we a few day ago that only 1 . 3 million will be build across the whole of the UK , and will the Secretary of State please confirm that the 1 . 5 million target have go ? the Minister for Housing and Planning answer this question just a moment ago . perhaps my Mancunian accent will help : the OBR score the national planning policy framework change that we have already make . that be where that figure come from . our other plan , include the new home accelerator programme , the money that we have invest since then , and the change in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , mean that the number will increase , and we will meet our 1 . 5 million home target . I do not think that I can put it much clear than that . there be a real housing crisis in Hackney , where we spend £ 54 million a year on temporary accommodation . I visit family , most of they work family , in tragically overcrowded accommodation . we need this social housing as quickly as possible , and I know my right hon . friend be put her shoulder to the wheel . will she visit Hackney to see the work that the council have be do to build properly affordable social rent council housing ? the council could do so much more with more Government support . we have over 160 , 000 child in temporary accommodation , as I have say at the Dispatch Box a couple of time , and it be a scandal that we be in this situation . that be why the Government be make these change . we make no apology for change the mandatory housing target to get Britain build again , because we need those home and those kid deserve well . we also need to cut the number of child live in temporary accommodation , include B & Bs . we be determined to do that . Homelessness and Rough Sleeping what step her Department be take to work with local council to prevent homelessness . what step her Department be take to support people sleep rough in colder month . this Government have increase funding for homelessness service by £ 233 million , to a total of nearly £ 1 billion for 2025 - 26 . the Government have also provide £ 60 million of additional emergency winter pressure fund to support people sleep rough during the colder month . accord to medium report , conservative shadow Ministers meet representative of the Get living property group , which manage thousand of property in my constituency . in the meeting , they discuss how to stop the Renters ’ Rights Bill , in their word , " dead in its track . " after year of promise to ban no - fault eviction , the Tory Government fail to deliver . now they be collude with the property industry to keep no - fault eviction in place . will this Labour Government do the right thing and ban no - fault eviction for good ? the Government remain committed to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction for both new and exist tenancy as soon as possible . we will ensure that the sector have adequate notice of the system take effect , and we will work closely with stakeholder to enable a smooth transition . I recently take part in an organise sleep - out event at Doncaster ' s Eco - Power stadium . the event be set up by the Club Doncaster Foundation to raise money for project support homeless people . such fundraiser , and the work do by charity like Shelter and Doncaster ' s People Focused Group , be vital , but it be ultimately up to the Government to solve the problem of homelessness . can the Minister update we on what the Government be do to fulfil the need for social housing ? since take office , we have make £ 800 million of new funding available to deliver 7 , 800 new social and affordable home . from 2026 - 27 , we be inject £ 2 billion to build up to 18 , 000 more home by the end of this Parliament . we will announce additional funding for next year and beyond at the spending review . Cornwall face a homelessness crisis , with 22 , 000 family on the housing waiting list . follow a meeting last week with the Minister for Housing and Planning , I propose an Airbnb Bill that will require second home owner formally to seek planning permission for any change of use of their property . there be an easy loophole that allow property owner to avoid pay council tax altogether by pass off a home as a short - term holiday let . will the Minister please confirm that she will give this proposal due consideration , and will she visit Cornwall to discuss this far ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . our priority be to make sure that we tackle the root cause of the housing shortage and homelessness . that be why we be build 1 . 5 million home and investing record amount in housing and tackle homelessness , include £ 1 billion for the next year . since the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 be pass , local authority have prevent 1 . 4 million people from become homeless . however , there be still evidence of local authority refuse to plan to prevent people become homeless . will the Minister take up the private Member ' s Bill that I champion the other week , and that be give an unopposed second reading , so that we put pressure on the people who should provide the housing , and no one in this country be force to sleep rough ? the hon . Gentleman have do a great deal of cross - party work in support of housing . we have a consultation in place . I be pleased to say that I have meet he on a couple of occasion , and he will be aware that we be work hard and at pace to tackle the underlying challenge . there be 164 , 000 child in temporary accommodation , and rough sleeping have go up by 164 % since 2010 . we be determined to take action to deal with the challenge , but that will require concerted work . the Deputy Prime Minister be lead the interdepartmental taskforce on homelessness . I look forward to continue to work with the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . I call the shadow Minister . quite rightly , the Government say in their manifesto that they want to reduce homelessness and rough sleeping , but instead there have be a 20 % increase in rough sleeping — at its high in London but rapidly climb in other part of England , such as by 67 % in Derbyshire . Homeless Link state that the Budget remove £ 50 million to £ 60 million from the sector due to national insurance increase and have call for a reset on homelessness funding . where be the Minister ' s long - term plan for reduce homelessness ? will she commit to see a fall in homelessness in the next year ? the shadow Minister should be aware of the record of his government — a record increase in rough sleeping . since 2010 it go up by 164 % . the previous Labour Government cut rough sleeping by two third . we have put in an additional £ 233 million , take the total to £ 1 billion . we have provide additional funding of £ 60 million to tackle winter pressure . the hon . Gentleman should look at the record of his government and face up to the fact that over 14 year the Conservative party preside over record increase . we be determined to tackle that , which be what we be do through our cross - cut work across Government . Social Rented Housing what plan she have to improve security and standard in the social rent sector . the Government be take concert step to drive a transformational and lasting change in the safety and quality of social housing , include introduce Awaab ' s law , and consult on the new decent home and minimum energy efficiency standard . the majority of social housing tenant already have security of tenure , and our Renters ' Rights Bill will abolish section 21 eviction where those be use by housing association . I have be work with three group of resident who live in building run by the same social housing provider in my constituency . many resident have come to I have be leave live in horrendous condition , with leak roof , damp and mould , and unfinished and unremediated work . follow my intervention , the housing provider have agree to a multimillion - pound upgrade in one of the building , to hire extra staff , and to communicate well with resident . that be great news , but it should not have have to get to this point . what more can be do to ensure that resident such as my constituent be not leave wait year for repair , and that social housing provider be meet their obligation ? I very much agree with my hon . friend that her intervention should not have be require to force the provider in question to take action . in addition to the forthcoming reform that I refer to in my previous answer , she will know that all register provider of social housing be require to deliver the outcome of the regulatory standard set by the independent Regulator of Social Housing . the regulator work intensively with provider that be not deliver those outcome , and have a series of power at its disposal when it identify serious failing . I be more than happy to discuss far with my hon . friend how she might seek redress for her resident . my interest be in the register , Mr Speaker . in what precise way be the Minister intend to improve the decent home standard ? we have be very clear that we be go to consult on a new decent home standard that apply to both the social rented and private rented sector , and I would welcome the right hon . member ' s engagement when that consultation be publish . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . despite the announcement refer to early , the Building Safety Regulator be now advise applicant to plan for 16 week to clear gateway 2 . that be hold up a disproportionate number of social home , include 100 in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , and it be much long than be require for planning permission . what step will the Government take to reduce the wait back down to eight week , as it be ? like my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) , the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . the newly establish Building Safety Regulator be crucial to uphold building safety standard , but we acknowledge that it be cause delay in handle application , particularly for high - rise building project on gateway 2 , and there be gateway 3 after that . the funding we have announce will make a difference , but as I have say , we be work with the regulator to support its plan for improved delivery , include increase caseworker capacity and guidance to the sector . we will continue to keep its performance under close review . local Development : Public Consultation whether she plan to include more local people in discussion on development in their area . what her policy be on the future role of plan committee in the planning process . local plan be the good way for community to shape decision about how to deliver the housing and wide development that their area need . we want more people to be involve in the development of those local plan , and a key objective of our digital planning reform be increase public engagement with they . measure in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will ensure planning committee play their proper role in scrutinise development without obstruct it , while maximise the use of experienced professional planner . across my constituency , local people be hugely frustrated at Labour - run Bradford council inundate our community with hundred of new house , while not invest in local service and road . despite protest and valid concern , the council have steamroller through development at every stage . yet when vast number of local people in Silsden support the development of a new farm shop on the periphery of the town — exactly the kind of new service that would promote local growth and deliver the new sustainable housing we need — Bradford council block the proposal . how will the Minister ensure that local council listen to local people and be not dictate development plan to they ? I appreciate that the hon . Gentleman need to make a political point to get his clip , but I be glad that we have Labour council across the country that back development . of course resident should have their say , but it be the role and responsibility of local authority to make decision about material consideration in planning application , and I have no reason to think that the local authority in question have do anything other than that . when I be leader of South Gloucestershire council , in partnership with Labour , we restore the right of local people to speak at planning committee site visit , give people back their voice in the affected community . however , clause 46 of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill would enable the Secretary of State to bypass planning committee altogether . if the Minister truly want to get Britain building , will he think again and give community a real stake in local planning decision ? as I have make clear , we want more people involve in the development of local plan . there be nothing in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that will prevent they from object to individual application . the measure simply ensure that the process of determine application at a local level be more streamlined and efficient . as I make clear in close the Bill ' s Second reading on 24 March , the Government intend formally to consult on proposal relate to the delegation of planning decision in England , so the hon . Lady and other hon . member will be able to engage with the detail alongside the Bill ' s passage . the number of people need a social home in Luton have go up from 8 , 500 last year to 11 , 500 this year , so I welcome the Government ' s plan for 1 . 5 million new home . while we be cry out for house in Luton , just over the border with Central Bedfordshire development be take place right on our border , but without people in Luton get a look in . what can the Minister do to ensure that local authority co - operate with each other to deliver the home that we need ? we be take measure to address precisely the problem that my hon . friend outline . proposal in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will make spatial development strategy mandatory at sub - regional level , so neighbouring local authority have to co - operate effectively on housing delivery and infrastructure provision across boundary in just the way she set out , which will address the challenge she outline . Dunfermline be Scotland ' s new city and as such a large number of home be be build all the time . however , too often those large - scale housing development be do without reference to local service , such as GPs , and without proper consultation with local people , partly due to failure in the scottish SNP Government ' s planning policy . what advice do the Minister have about how those issue might be overcome ? will he engage with the Scottish Government to ensure they be learn any lesson from the excellent change be make in that part of the UK ? housing be a devolved matter , but I be always keen to convey to colleague in the Scottish Government precisely the benefit of the proposal we be take forward when it come to plan reform and renew drive for house building . victim of domestic Abuse : Accommodation what step her Department be take to provide safe accommodation for victim of domestic abuse . local authority in England must ensure that support be available in safe accommodation for domestic abuse victim who need it . my Department have allocate £ 160 million for 2025 - 26 , a £ 30 million uplift from the previous year . that funding be for local authority to commission lifesave support for victim in safe accommodation . one of my constituent be a victim of domestic abuse and on a 999 priority list . she be serve a section 21 notice by her landlord and deny band a housing by the council because , in order to keep custody of her child , she have sign a police protection order state that she be not at risk of domestic violence . she be force to choose between her child and a safe home . what be my hon . friend do to ensure that council properly prioritise domestic abuse victim so that no one face such an impossible choice ? I be so sorry to hear about the difficulty that my hon . friend ' s constituent have face . that be horrific . he will be aware that the Government be focus on tackle violence against woman , work across Departments and be lead by the Home Secretary and the Deputy Prime Minister . local authority be strongly encourage through statutory guidance to give priority for social housing to victim of domestic abuse and their family , particularly if they be homeless and require urgent rehousing . we be also take action to exempt victim of domestic abuse from local connection test , where they apply , to ensure that there be no barrier to victim access social housing . over the weekend , I deal with a case in which a homeless pregnant woman , who be a victim of domestic abuse , be kick out of her temporary accommodation by Kirklees council for no real reason and leave on the street . will the Minister explain or share with this House what step will be take to prevent council from turf out pregnant woman who be victim of domestic abuse on to the street ? I would be grateful if the hon . Member could write to I about that specific case . I will follow up with he . I recently visit the Glass Door night shelter in my constituency to hear more about the work it be do to alleviate homelessness . one of the thing it tell I be that many of the woman who visit the shelter be flee domestic abuse . we all know the challenge if somebody be homeless : it be almost impossible to get a job , let alone to find somewhere safe and decent to live . the Minister have highlight the investment . can she set out a little more about the money be invest in service not only to support but to protect woman flee domestic abuse ? my hon . friend will be aware that the Deputy Prime Minister be chair an interdepartmental taskforce on homelessness and rough sleeping . a key part of our work be ensure that we support victim of domestic abuse and violence . as I state , we have already allocate funding to local authority , and we will continue to work across Government to tackle the root cause of homelessness as well as violence against woman . victim of domestic violence urgently need safe and stable accommodation . however , council have no obligation to offer like - for - like housing . too often , the duty be discharge by suggest private rental , which be frequently unaffordable or unsuitable for those on low income . that create a significant barrier for many victim ; it even place they in a situation where they choose not to leave , because they can not have the housing that they need . will the Minister far explain how she be take step to ensure that victim be offer genuinely safe , appropriate and affordable housing ? will she consider strengthen the statutory duty on council to well support those flee domestic abuse ? the hon . member will be aware that there be a massive housing shortage and that there be challenge around support housing . we need to ensure , as we be do , that victim of domestic violence get the support they need , which be why we provide the additional uplift of £ 30 million , to a total of £ 160 million . we be work across Government to tackle the root cause of violence against woman , within which work economic and housing support be crucial . I look forward to work with she and other on this very important agenda . Town Centres : Population Growth what step she be take to ensure that town centre can support grow community . we all want to see our town centre thrive . through our plan for neighbourhood , the Government be invest £ 1 . 5 billion in the future of town and community . the Government have also commit to strengthen the developer contribution system to ensure that new development provide the necessary infrastructure . to address vacancy in town centre , we have give council the power to force the auction of empty shop . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Burgess Hill be fast - grow , and the Lib Dem - run council be work hard with Homes England to deliver 3 , 500 new home , hundred of which will be affordable . however , after year of conservative failure , my constituent be worried that housing growth will go hand in hand with the hollowing out of the town centre . my Lib Dem colleague want to deliver a buoyant town centre through a public - private partnership , so will the Minister visit Burgess Hill to see the innovative approach we be take to make it thrive again ? I be grateful for that question , and for the spirit in which Burgess Hill be take on the need to build housing in its community . we believe that sustainable housing with complementary infrastructure will drive the local economy — it will drive footfall to town centre and help bring private investment to high street . clearly , something interesting be happen in Burgess Hill , and I would very much like to visit . in Sandwell , we have almost 20 , 000 people on the housing waiting list — we desperately need more affordable and social home . we also have a town centre in West Brom that be busy during the day , but very quiet at night , with no night economy whatsoever . both of those challenge could be address through development of residential property in the town centre . we have a few place earmark for development , but that have completely stall , so can the Minister say what more he can do to help West Brom to get build and build the home that people need ? my hon . friend be exactly right — those two challenge can be take on together . create opportunity for people to live in local community bring footfall and reduce crime , which be both excellent thing . she have hear what my hon . friend the Minister for Housing and Planning have say about our support for house building . we stand ready to support her community to make sure they can build house in their town centre . I call the shadow Minister . the opposition broadly support the Government ' s proposal in the plan for neighbourhood , which carry on the excellent work start under the previous Government . however , how will the proposal to diversify the base of consultee to prioritise the voice of trade union — which , by definition , be find mainly in large public sector and corporate organisation — not drown out the voice of the small business on which our town centre depend ? I be grateful for the opportunity to remind the House , and the hon . Gentleman and his front - Bench colleague , that they of course want the predecessor programme to the plan for neighbourhood , but do not provide any money for it . that be a slight oversight , which we have be able to address in order to keep the promise that they make but would have have to break . on the point about trade union board , I can understand why opposition colleague do not want the voice of million of ordinary people in the room when decision be make ; they never do , and they never will . however , trade union be not in competition with small business — far from it . there be room for both in the discussion , and both will add lot to those discussion . support local Growth what recent progress her Department have make on support growth in local area . we be give local leader the tool they need to deliver growth for their area by devolve power and money from central Government to local community . we be invest in programme that drive growth , and we will set out our refresh vision for local growth funding at the multi - year spending review . local high street such as those in Hertford and Stortford be the beat heart of our community , and they power economic growth . I welcome the fact that the Government be already work with local authority to implement high street rental auction power , to breathe life back into high street and ensure that vacant shop be occupy . will the Minister set out in further detail how this will help to drive up occupancy rate on our high street and drive growth in Hertford and Stortford ? high street rental auction be a great tool for enable Hertford and Stortford and the rest of the country to take on persistent vacancy . we already have trailblazer that be move forward at great pace to implement those auction , but the power and the extra resource we have provide be available for all council , and we ask they to come forward , to designate those town centre and high street , and to start those auction . I be delighted to see recently that Lancashire county council and Fylde borough council have commit more fund to the St Annes pier link project , and be also look at the Island site , which be critical for drive growth in the town centre to get that development off the ground . what fund or grant be now available from the Government for that kind of project for which Fylde council can apply , so that it can really catalyse growth on the Island site in St Annes ? we be change the way in which local growth be do in this country , exactly for that reason . the previous Government want to subject community to beauty parade for short - term funding , accord to criterion decide by they . our funding plan , which will come forward at the spending review , will be long - term , allocative , and base on what the hon . Gentleman ' s community want rather than what minister want . I call the shadow Minister . I agree with the Minister that the Government have change how growth be happen in local government , because apart from the massive growth in the number of people rough sleeping and the massive growth in pile of rubbish uncollecte in Birmingham , there be little evidence of economic growth at the local level . do the Minister acknowledge that when we compare band d equivalent , conservative council consistently charge much low council tax than Labour or Lib Dem one ? the good way for our constituent to ensure local growth be to vote Conservative at the council election . I have be there . it be horrible in opposition . it get to the point where , a couple of hour before oral , someone tell you that have to ask the clip question on council tax . all I will say to the hon . Gentleman be that I know that the people of our country be smart enough to decide which of we they would rather . property Management Companies what step she be take to ensure that property management company be adequately regulate . what step her Department plan to take to limit excessive service charge impose on leasehold property . the Government recognise the considerable financial strain that rise service charge be place on leaseholder . that be why we intend to consult on the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 ' s provision on service charge and bring they into force as quickly as possible thereafter . this year , we will also consult on strengthen the regulation of manage agent , include , as a minimum , introduce mandatory professional qualification to set a new basic standard that manage agent will be require to meet . on Friday , I meet with Jacqui , Gary and Simon in Fairwater Drive in my Spelthorne constituency . Jacqui ' s service charge be go up from £ 1 , 500 a year to £ 4 , 800 . I sit down and have a look at the bill , and they be without any itemisation , so it be impossible to know where to start with the property manager . the Minister write in response to a recent write question : " we will set out our full position on regulation of estate , let and manage agent in due course . " can he give some reassurance to Jacqui , Gary and Simon that their interest will not be put on to the back - burner and suggest when " in due course " might be ? I be sorry to hear about the experience of Jacqui , Gary and Simon . as I say , the Government be fully commit to protect leaseholder from abuse and poor service at the hand of unscrupulous manage agent . despite commit to regulate the property agent sector in 2018 , the hon . Gentleman will know that the previous Government fail to do so . this Government will act . we be look again at the recommendation of the 2019 report commission from Lord Best , which be not act upon by the previous Government over many year . as I have make clear , we intend to consult on the regulation of manage agent this year . many leaseholder in Southampton Itchen who be still wait for fire remediation work to be do be now be clobber by extortionate service charge . in one case , a constituent go from pay £ 800 a year to £ 3 , 300 a year , with next to no clarity that that money be be spend well . despite my recent meeting with developer and management company , I be yet to be convince that there be any end in sight for my constituent . what conversation be the Government have with management company that be let service charge spiral out of control ? I recognise , as I say , the challenge experience by leaseholder . when it come to insurance , the Minister for Building Safety recently meet the industry to discuss how we can bring premium down . when it come to service charge , I assure my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen that we understand , not least because I have significant number of such case in my constituency , the considerable and , in some case , intolerable financial strain be place on leaseholder as a result of opaque and unaffordable service charge . we be commit to empower leaseholder to challenge unreasonable service charge increase , and my hon . friend will not have to wait long for we to take action to that end . SEND funding : Council Insolvency what discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary of State for Education on the potential implication for her policy of council become insolvent due to inadequate funding for SEND education . the Government recognise the impact that spend on special educational need and disability be have on council finance . a £ 1 billion increase to SEND and alternative provision be announce for 2025 - 26 in the autumn statement . the Government intend to set out plan for reform the SEND system in further detail this year . that will include detail on how the Government will support local authority to deal with their historical and accrue dedicated school grant deficit . next March , when local authority can no long exclude the high need element from their balance sheet , half of they will go bankrupt as it now stand . for the East Riding , it be estimate that this year ' s education budget be £ 17 million in deficit . that be largely because of increase high need spend on pupil with special education need . can the Minister give I an undertaking that we will not next year find ourselves either crush the need of special need child or those of other need in society ? first , we need to repair the system of SEND provision and deal with its impact on local authority . the system be not sustainable in its current form , and we must reform it from the ground upwards . secondly , deficit have be accruing and be still accrue , and that be a big issue . we certainly do not intend council to be the victim of a system over which they have have no control , and we will work with they in our endeavour to prevent that . as a SEND parent , my view of my child ' s need be holistic : I do not believe that they simply stop where the responsibility of a local authority lie . what step be the Minister take to ensure that our SEND policy reflect such need and the responsibility of , for instance , the Department of Health and Social Care , the Treasury and the Department for Education , as well as local authority ? as my hon . Friend say , this issue require a whole - of - Government approach . when government work in silos , it be those who need support the most who fall through the gap in the end . this government do work across Departments , include our own and the Department for Education , to ensure that we have a single plan . ultimately , of course , we have to deal with the financial impact on council , but it be the young people go through the system who really matter . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which state that I be a trade union member . let I update the House on the waste dispute in Birmingham . our priority be tackle the misery and disruption cause to resident . the Government have consistently urge the council and Unite to sit down and resolve the dispute ; it be welcome that they meet yesterday and that further talk be take place today , but we continue to press all party to negotiate that urgently need resolution . it be essential to protect public health by tackle the backlog of waste , and my Department be in close contact with the council . this weekend I meet the council leader and the manage director , and we be provide ongoing support to address the public health emergency . collection take place over the weekend , and will continue this week to clear the backlog and protect public health . the Government continue to support Birmingham ' s recovery . needless to say , everyone wish the Secretary of State well with that . in March , the Chancellor say : " the regulatory system have become burdensome to the point of choke off innovation , investment and growth . we will free business from that stranglehold " . in my constituency , the finnish company Mets ä Tissue want to invest hundred of million to build a state - of - the - art tissue manufacturing plant . the investment will provide 400 direct job , thousand of other job and £ 30 million a year for the local economy , but although the site be a freeport , the investment be hamper by monumental cost of £ 113 million to make it ready , although the same process on an equivalent site in Sweden will cost £ 4 . 5 million . what be the Government do to correct this problem ? we have be do a lot to try to ensure that , under this Government , taxpayer get value for money from the fair and reasonable amount that we can invest to make land ready for development . as the right hon . Member say , we have the freeport — some of they a legacy from the previous Government — but we want to see infrastructure build , which be why we be bring forward the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . we have commit ourselves to 150 new major infrastructure project , so hopefully we will kick - start the economy in a way that his government be unable to . I be delighted recently to see civic and business leader in Southampton join the Labour council in launch their Renaissance Vision , set out an ambitious agenda for regeneration and house building in the city . what step will the Government take in the upcoming spending review to support and enable house building vision such as this ? I do not begrudge my hon . friend his attempt , but he will have to wait for the spending review outcome to receive an answer to his question . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the effect of the Birmingham bin strike have be declare a major incident , they be a national embarrassment , and with 21 ° temperature forecast for later this week , they will become a public health emergency . while Labour Members in Birmingham be busy campaign for an airport in Pakistan , the Secretary of State be unwilling to visit the city or take on Unite . be that because of the ten of million of pound that her party receive from Unite , or , indeed , because of the £ 10 , 000 that she receive for her own election campaign ? I think the shadow Secretary of State be well than that , but heigh - ho . this be a local dispute , and it be right that the negotiation be lead locally . we have make it clear that both party should get round the table , and I be pleased that that happen on Sunday and talk continue today . Birmingham city council do declare a major incident last week ; we expect the rubbish to be clear , we expect the party to get round the negotiating table , and we expect this to be sort out . the right hon . Lady still have not explain why she have not visit the city to look at this issue at first hand . the right hon . Lady ' s manifesto set out the issue of preserve the green belt . in this very House , she say that she would transform grey - belt land such as wasteland or old car park , but also that she would protect the green belt . in its report accompany the spring statement last week , the Office for Budget Responsibility state that most of the additional home deliver — up to 500 , 000 , accord to she — will be build on the green belt . be it not the case that she have con the public with her grey - belt policy , and that she have unintentionally mislead this House ? I think the hon . Member be go to do well , but he do not . the Minister for Local Government be in Birmingham on Thursday , and I be always happy to visit Birmingham . it be a great city and have always be a fantastic place , and I have probably be there more time than the hon . Member have . under the Tories , the number of home approve on green - belt land increase nearly tenfold since 2009 , so I will not take any lecture . we have say that we will develop on brownfield site first , and we be take action to make sure that we deliver the home and infrastructure that people need . he could learn a lot from I . at the end of January , 14 , 000 people be still on Northumberland county council ' s social housing waiting list , yet hundred of property right across the county , include in rural Allendale , remain empty . give the number of people on the housing list and in desperate need of accommodation , it be a disgrace that the conservative administration have leave they empty for so long . do the Minister agree that a Labour council , back by a Labour Government , will do much more to get people off the housing list and into home ? local authority already have a range of power to bring empty home back into use , but I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this specific issue in more detail . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last month , I be in a field near the East Carr estate in Hull . with the River Humber in the distance , the field lie submerge under water and sit clearly below sea level . resident tell I that the field act as a barrier between their home and the water , and they be really worried that the plan development , which be in the hull local plan , will leave they with flooded home . can the Minister reassure I , and resident in Hull and other low - lie community , that the Government will ensure that the land use framework for determine area for development will consider flood risk management and the delivery of sustainable drainage system ? we take action on suds in the national policy planning framework , and we have make very welcome improvement in that area . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have launch a consultation on the land use framework . I take it that the hon . Lady have submit her view , and we will publish the response to that consultation in due course . I allude early to Bracknell be 76 year old . one of the challenge we face , especially in our old estate , be insufficient parking . will the Minister meet I to discuss how the Government , the council and social housing provider can work together to address this issue ? we be determined to drive up standard across the private parking sector , and my colleague in the Department for Transport be across the other element of the parking sector . we will announce our plan regard the private parking code of practice in due course , and I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this issue far . with rat as big as cat , over 17 , 000 tonne of rubbish pile up in the street of Birmingham , and story of rubbish be set alight in some street , the bin strike be a problem that need to be sort out by Labour - run Birmingham city council and this Government . can the Minister reassure I that neighbouring authority , such as Walsall borough council , will be reimburse for any additional cost that we incur as a result of the strike ? all of we understand how difficult thing be in Birmingham , and it be the Government ' s job to support Birmingham to recover and get service back to normal . there be three strand : regularise the negotiation with the trade union to find a long - term solution , deal with routine collection and get more truck out of the depot , and deal with the clean - up of waste that have accumulate on the street . we be support the council in do that . on the question of mutual aid , any mutual aid that be provide by local authority will be reimburse . with the recent announcement that Goodman have buy Luton ' s Vauxhall van plant site for redevelopment , do the Minister agree that local government have a key role to play in local business and regeneration plan to help drive economic growth ? yes . economic growth be this Government ' s no . 1 mission . as I have say multiple time at the Dispatch Box , that be an inside job and it take great local leadership . that be why we have make a commitment to the devolution of power and resource from this place to such community , by create new devolved institution and back our exist one . devolution go alongside revolution in local government in Essex , where we be expect numerous unitary authority to be create . however , local people be concerned that they will not get a say in the structure of those local authority , so can the Minister tell I whether they will ? there be also concern about local election be delay by multiple year . can the Minister also tell I whether , year after year , Basildon council will not be hold accountable for the decision it take ? I pay tribute to local leader in Essex and other place for the leadership they have show to make sure that there be sustainable and accountable local government at the end of the devolution and reorganisation process . the right hon . Member have our absolute commitment that we will work through those issue with local leader . as for the election question , election have be postpone for a year , and it be our intention that routine election will take place as plan . many of my constituent in Bolton South and Walkden be live in temporary accommodation . they can not get a social house and they can not buy a house , so they have to go into the private rental sector , where rent be sky high . what action be the Government take to stop landlord exploit this crisis and to give my constituent a way out of temporary home ? this Government be tackle the root cause of homelessness by deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation , and that be be back by £ 2 billion of investment for social and affordable housing . our Renters ' Rights Bill will abolish section 21 no - fault eviction . my constituent in Broxbourne rightly expect new school and health facility , particularly GP surgery , to be in place before any new housing development . what action be the Minister take to force developer to deliver infrastructure first ? the Government recognise the importance of ensure that new housing development be support by appropriate infrastructure . the revised national planning policy framework , which we publish last year , include change design to improve the provision and modernisation of various type of public infrastructure . as the hon . Gentleman be well aware , we be also committed to strengthen the exist system of developer contribution to ensure new development provide the necessary infrastructure that community such as his expect . I have be campaign for fair renting in Bournemouth , and I recently hold my first renter roundtable at the Bournemouth food bank ' s caf é . it be attend by , among other , my constituent Alison Thomas , who can not cook in her home because water be leak through her kitchen ceiling and she be scared to turn on any electrical device . my constituent the Al - Mubaraks , a family of six , rent an overcrowded home , with black mould so harmful that the headteacher of the four child live there have write to my office to express concern . do my hon . friend agree with I that we need urgent action to improve the state of the private rent sector in Bournemouth East ? I thank my hon . friend for all he do to support private renter in his constituency . I be sadden but , in all honesty , not shock by the case he raise . such experience be still far too common in both the social sector and the private rent sector . in particular , we know the health risk pose by damp and mould . that be one reason we have choose to sequence the implementation of Awaab ' s law in the way we have , as it will allow we to apply the protection to damp and mould early than would otherwise have be the case . in my constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East , the Lib Dem local council be propose to build ten of thousand of new home with little thought for correspond infrastructure . I have speak to local councillor , and they believe they have no agency in this process and central Government be tell they what to do . what more can be do to ensure that local authority be hold accountable for their decision ? local elector can hold local authority accountable for all of the decision they make . on infrastructure , I refer the hon . member to my previous answer . however , local authority should , as part of the local plan development process , have infrastructure strategy in place that set out the requirement for infrastructure and how they should be fund . next month mark 80 year since victory in Europe , and I look forward to attend many ve day event in my constituency to thank our service personnel of yesteryear . Homelessness be an issue that affect many veteran , so while I welcome the Prime Minister ' s pledge to guarantee a roof over the head of every veteran , can the Minister confirm what extra support there be with homelessness for the veteran community in Banbury ? homeless veteran in Banbury will be able to benefit from extra support thank to a £ 371 , 927 increase in funding for homelessness service in Cherwell and West Oxfordshire in 2025 - 26 . veteran in Banbury can also access housing support through Op Fortitude . this nationwide system provide housing guidance and assistance to veteran who be experience homelessness or at risk of homelessness . in the London borough of Richmond we desperately need more social home , but we be really short of site we can build on . I have long run a campaign for the disused Teddington police station to be turn into a gp surgery and social home , but understandably the Met want top dollar to fund its service . will the Secretary of State look at way to incentivise public body to sell asset below market value for community benefit ? the hon . Member will forgive I , but I be not go to comment on the specific of the case she raise . we be give serious consideration to how we well utilise public land in general , particularly in area with constrain land allocation such as her own . More than half my constituency casework consist of substandard repair , poor quality communication from social landlord , and damp and mould . that be why this week I be launch a new safe and healthy home campaign in Kensington and bayswater . will the Minister outline how the Government will work with council and housing association , ahead of change in the law and policy framework such as Awaab ' s law , to improve standard for social tenant , include in my constituency ? we be work closely with the sector and talk through how we can well implement reform such as Awaab ' s law and our intend overhaul of the decent home standard . as I say in a previous question , all resident provider of social housing be require to deliver the outcome of regulatory standard that be set by the independent regulator . the independent regulator have power at its disposal to identify when serious failing be take place . this morning , firefighter in Birmingham make it plain that they will stand in solidarity with the bin striker in Birmingham and not collect the rubbish . we know that there be only 17 worker , which mean this be a drop in the ocean financially . give that the Government have say they will do all they can to bring the strike to an end , will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that they will force the council to make the payment , and that they will deploy the Army to assist the local charity and organisation that be help to clear up and need extra support ? the hon . Gentleman do very well to go from zero to 100 pretty quickly on the issue , but let we step back from the immediacy of it . clearly , we want all party to be in the room negotiate the underlie pay , term and condition dispute that be at play . to be absolutely clear , there have to be a red line . this can not stray into potentially compromise the equal pay settlement that have be agree , so that that all begin to unravel . Bear in mind that that have already cost the local authority £ 1 billion . we support they , and we want people in the room . the deal have to be a sustainable one that will hold . for the final question , I call Alice Macdonald . as the Minister will be aware , nutrient neutrality have have a big impact on Norfolk , hold up many home and planning application . the launch of the Norfolk nutrient mitigation fund have help to make a difference , but we need more environmental solution . will the Minister update we on what else we will be do to address nutrient neutrality , so that good home and growth can be unlocked in our local area ? we be support a range of target intervention to deal with constraint such as nutrient neutrality . in the long term , the measure in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that introduce the nature restoration fund will allow we to provide a win - win for both development and nature , deal with constraint such as nutrient neutrality and unlock the development of new home . Scunthorpe Steelworks ( Urgent Question : ) to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade what action the Government be take to prevent the closure of Scunthorpe ' s steelwork . I appear before this House on 27 March , just moment after British Steel ' s devastating announcement of early asset closure at Scunthorpe and its commercial decision to consult on large - scale redundancy . the course of action choose by British Steel ' s owner be deeply disappointing , and our thought remain with British Steel worker and their family at this very concern time . government ' s contingency plan have kick in , and team from the Departments for Work and Pensions and for Education be there to provide support and advice to affected worker . we will ensure that support be in place for as long as possible . look ahead , I can assure this House that early blast furnace closure at Scunthorpe be far from a do deal . we have be clear that the good way forward be for British Steel to continue as a commercially run business with private investment and Government act in support , which be why we make the company a generous offer of public funding on 24 March . as member be aware , British Steel ' s owner do not accept our offer or the necessary condition attach , which be design to protect worker , safeguard taxpayer ' money and deliver a sustainable company at the core of the future of british steelmaking . however , that be not the end of the matter . the Business and Trade Secretary and I meet Jingye , the owner of British Steel , on Friday , and there be plan to meet again this week . the Government remain resolute in our desire to secure a long - term future for the Scunthorpe steelwork , retain steel production and put an end to the year of uncertainty , and I can assure the House that no option be off the table to achieve that . we will continue to work tirelessly across Government and with British Steel ' s owner to find a well outcome . I can not go into further detail at this stage . it would be damaging to British Steel ' s worker and their family , the company and its supply chain for I to speculate on how event might unfold in the come day and week while a live negotiation be under way and policy be be develop at pace . however , member should be in no doubt that there be a bright future for steelmaking in the UK under this government , and we believe that British Steel and its superb workforce at Scunthorpe have an integral role to play in it . I thank the Minister for her comment . while it be welcome that work be be do through DWP and so on to support potential redundant worker , the reality be that Jingye be not involve in meaningful negotiation . the Government have be critical of it in previous response to my question . it be very obvious that Jingye have cancel the raw material order that be essential to keep the furnace go ; those order be due in mid - May . when I be at the steelwork on Friday , I be tell that unless another order for iron ore pellet could be place this week , it would be too late . the Minister be somewhat reluctant to go down the nationalisation route when I raise the matter a couple of week ago . however , the majority opinion in the area and among lead politician be that nationalisation on a temporary basis be the only solution to keep the furnace burn come the middle of next month . can the Minister therefore confirm that it be something the Government be actively consider ? it would provide an opportunity to rebuild the industry , hopefully secure new private sector involvement and convince the customer — most notably Network Rail , which get 95 % of its rail track from the Scunthorpe work — that supply will continue . I have come round to the view that nationalisation on a temporary basis be , in this instance , the only way . it will secure the job and secure a future for steel production in Scunthorpe . I urge the Minister not to rule it out , and indeed to commit to it . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this urgent question and for his comment . I know we will continue to talk and have honest conversation . Jingye be very much talk to we . as I say , I meet Jingye with the Secretary of State and other on Friday , and we hope to do so again this week . our priority be respect the worker , safeguard job and retain steelmaking . we have be clear in our belief that the good way forward be for Scunthorpe and British Steel to continue as a commercially - run business with private investment and with the Government act in support , but I can tell the hon . Gentleman that no option be off the table . I be concerned to read about the cancellation of shipment of essential coking coal and so on for Scunthorpe . the Business and Trade Committee hear from British Steel and Tata about some of their need . the Minister will be aware that an area where we have fail as a country over the last six year or so be not have an industrial strategy , so I make clear to she once more the absolute urgency for we to establish a steel plan to set out the UK ' s need and ensure that we have resilience across our industry and for our economy . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we talk about exactly that at the Business and Trade Committee . this country have see a significant decline in steel manufacturing over the last decade , and we want to turn that around . long before we get into government , we commit to a plan for steel , which represent a £ 2 . 5 billion investment in UK steelmaking . as we speak , there be a roundtable at JCB in Stafford on the plan for steel , on this occasion discuss trade barrier — I be due to be chair but come back to be in the Chamber . we have be have a series of roundtable to gather evidence and pull the fact and figure together so that we can put the right investment in place . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and Rob Waltham , our excellent candidate for Mayor of Greater Lincolnshire , for their engagement and work on this issue . despite repeatedly promise to protect and support virgin steelmaking capacity when in opposition , the Labour party be potentially preside over its total demise . in the process , thousand of blue - collar job in this once proud industry have either go forever or be at risk , include 5 , 000 directly employ role at Port Talbot and Scunthorpe alone and many more in the supply chain . give that the region with the high number of steelworker be Wales and Yorkshire and the Humber , the situation be deal a hammer blow to effort to address regional inequality . steel be obviously a key strategic industry — even more so give our need to increase defence spending and infrastructure investment , and even more so again give President Trump ' s game - change imposition of tariff . the Prime Minister keep say that the world have change , and that we be witness the end of globalisation . I can not say that I totally agree , but if that be the Government ' s position , surely they have no choice but to intervene to support domestic production . the alternative could see we lock out of reliable , consistently price source of steel . the Government have step in to help car manufacturing in recent day , so will the Minister now redouble her effort to reach a deal with British Steel ? steel production be just one of the industry close due to our high energy price , which be 50 % high than our competitor in France and Germany and 400 % high than in the USA . other manufacturer such as CF Fertilisers on Teesside and Ineos at Grangemouth have close their door or be in the process of do so . will the Minister press with the Chancellor the case for permanently low industrial energy price ? the Minister mention support for steelworker . how many steelworker have the Government engage with ? what support have be give to account for the knock - on effect to community ? what assessment have the Minister make of the effect this situation will have on national security ? she mention a bright future for steelmaking in this country . will she confirm that that mean primary steelmaking capability ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution and for welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement today on the zero emission vehicle mandate and the change we have make to support the automotive industry , which be incredibly important . the hon . Gentleman talk about the number of good steel job that have go forever or be at risk , but that happen because the previous Government fail to intervene to support our steel industry . that be why we lose so many job over the last decade . not have an industrial strategy or a plan for steel mean that we allow offshoring of our job in the steel sector , which have damage we . he rightly say that in many key part of our country we need good job . I should say that steel produce really good job , which be well pay than the average in the area and be do by really good , qualified people we want to retain in the UK . the hon . Gentleman talk about energy . again , the reason why we be here be that we have year of the previous Government not intervene in this space . we be well aware of energy price in this country and be do all we can to bring those down . [ interruption . ] I be ask by the hon . gentleman to redouble my effort in the negotiation we be have with British Steel . I will do everything that I possibly can — as we be do . I hope he understand that I can not go into detail about the state of those negotiation because that would be bad for the worker , bad for our supply chain and bad for the outcome . the hon . Gentleman talk about national security and primary steel . we be conduct a review of primary steel as part of our plan for steel and we will have the result of that soon . we will look at those result and see what we need to do . I should stress that there be defence equipment make in the UK from electric arc furnace ; there be not much defence work either in British Steel or at Tata in Port Talbot at the moment . People such as Sheffield Forgemasters produce steel from electric arc furnace . however , the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about the importance of national security and to say that the world have change and thing have move on , so we need to ensure that we be protect our country as we need to . as I say in the Chamber in response to the last urgent question on this issue , there be a reason why Putin bomb the blast furnace in Ukraine pretty much first : it be because a country want to have that steelmaking capacity . we be alive to those issue , and that be why nothing be off the table . we be do everything that we can . you ' re not ! it be a shame that the Conservative Members who be heckle the Minister have forget their own Government ' s failure to tackle the problem of high industrial energy price . [ interruption . ] they can heckle again now , but they do nothing in government . two week ago , I be at the Tata steelwork with the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . we speak to people locally , who have great concern that when the blast furnace there shut — it be too late for this Government to take action to prevent that when they come in — it be some year before the new electric arc furnace technology be ready to be instal and to operate . will my hon . friend do everything in her power to ensure that there be not that same gap here ? the problem that have cause in south Wales have remind people of the damage do by previous era of deindustrialisation , and they be concerned that we be now repeat the same mistake . will she confirm that the Government will do everything in their power to ensure that we do not make those same mistake of deindustrialisation this time ? we be very much planning not to make the mistake that my hon . friend talk about . we do not want the blast furnace to shut — that remain the Government ' s view — and we will do everything we can to reach a deal with British Steel to protect worker and secure those job and the production of steel in the long term . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . speculation around British Steel at the Scunthorpe plant be deeply concern for the worker and business owner alike , who be desperately wait for the Government to deliver just one piece of good news . steel be vital to our green economy as it play a huge role in our ability to extend our railway and to build zero carbon home . what incentive do British Steel have to keep go ? it have have to contend with the Chancellor ' s decision to hike national insurance contribution and with Trump ' s terrify tariff . manufacturing business need the Government to offer reassurance , certainty and stability . we need to move from a patchwork of last - minute rescue to a long - term plan that will see industry on a sustainable footing . we need a robust industrial strategy with a proper plan for steel within it . we have be tell to expect this industrial strategy shortly . will the Minister confirm exactly when we will have it ? can she reassure the small and medium - sized manufacturing business in my constituency and across rural England that Britain want they to grow ? will the strategy include a long - term vision that will allow the UK to secure the investment that we need for virgin steel production ? I can reassure the hon . Lady that we be develop a long - term plan in the industrial strategy . we be develop the plan for steel , as I have say , and alongside that we have our trade strategy , which have become very significant in recent time . she be right to point to the tariff that have be place on steel and aluminium . this be a deeply difficult situation and I have meet the steel sector on multiple occasion to talk about it . that be what the conversation that be happen in Stafford as we speak be about : what extra measure need to be put in place . the Secretary of State meet the Trade Remedies Authority this morning to push on some of the issue around trade protection . the hon . Lady talk about the SME manufacturing supply chain . of course that be very important and we will do what we can within the industrial strategy and the steel strategy to support those business . I understand that the speculation about what may or may not happen at Scunthorpe be deeply distressing , not just to the worker and their family but to all those who be part of the supply chain . that be why we will continue at pace to have the conversation we need to have with British Steel to ensure that we do the right thing , and as I say , nothing be off the table . the whole of northern Lincolnshire will feel the brunt of this British Steel decision , should the site close , and I urge Jingye to reconsider the Government ' s generous £ 500 million offer . support through the Department for Work and Pensions be really welcome but the truth be that people have be leave British Steel for year because of the cycle of its uncertain future . I welcome the Government ' s comment that no option be off the table . in the interim , be the Government consider order the raw material to keep the blast furnace burn ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for point out that the uncertainty that have exist for many year be difficult for people , and that if they can secure job elsewhere , they will do that . I have be to Scunthorpe and talk to people who work there and to the trade union a lot , as she would expect , to make sure that we understand all the issue at play . I understand my hon . friend ' s question about what we may or may not do in the immediate term , but I hope she will respect the fact that we can not at this point talk about what we might end up do , because those conversation be commercially sensitive . I want to reassure she , and the whole House , that we be do what we can to ensure we get the right solution and that we do not want the blast furnace to close . about 10 day ago , I urge the Minister and the Government to use this decision by the Chinese to close British Steel as an opportunity to take British Steel into public ownership . the situation be urgent . it have stop order the raw material for the blast furnace , and unless those raw material be order within about 10 day , those blast furnace will go cold in mid - May . the Minister say that no option be off the table . will she confirm that the Government will make those decision and come to a conclusion about the option within this very short timeframe to ensure that the blast furnace stay open , and that the right long - term solution be to take British Steel into public ownership and invest in it for british industry , for British Steel and for the worker in Lincolnshire ? as I say about 10 day ago , economic and job , not ideology , will drive the decision that we make . the hon . member be right to point to lot of speculation about the need to buy raw material . I assure he that we be have those conversation with British Steel , and we will continue to do so . as I say , our preference be for a commercial solution , with Government provide support , but all option remain on the table , and I can assure he that we be work at pace . Wolverhampton North East have the UK ' s large steel processing and distribution centre . will the Minister outline how the Government intend to protect job across this vital industry by back a robust industrial strategy and the £ 2 . 5 billion plan for steel ? I would be happy to come to my hon . friend ' s constituency to have a look at and to talk to some of the people who work in the steel business . huge number of organisation and business across the country rely on , use , and produce thing from steel , and we need to ensure that we factor they into the conversation we be have . we be look at the supply chain and how we boost industry more widely through our industrial strategy . we be look at all the thing — whether it be skill , r & D or access to finance — that business of all sector have tell we they need . whether it be through the industrial strategy or the plan for steel , we be try to ensure that we have a robust industry in this country so that job be not offshore and we have the security of know that we be produce the thing that we need here in the UK . between 1997 and 2010 , about 36 , 000 job be lose in steelmaking , or about half the workforce — that be under Labour , of course . I be concerned to hear talk today about nationalisation , and I say that with due deference to my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) ; the old joke be that if we want to stop crime pay , we should nationalise it . give that this government could not run a bath , never mind the steel industry , would a well idea not be to support the industry with , as I have mention before , a golden share to give we some say over what happen ? again , be the truth not that the dogmatic pursuit of net zero be drive up energy bill in this country to a level that be simply not sustainable for industry ? I will repeat what I have say : we be look at all the option on the table ; we be talk to British Steel about the right outcome ; and we will do what be right for our country and our industry . on energy price , the hon . member be right to raise the high cost of energy . the supercharger come into effect this month , and British Steel will get support from that , as will other high - end energy - intensive industry . but he be right to point to that issue and we be look at it . I thank the Minister for her answer . as she will know , there have be intense medium speculation that the blast furnace will close before the consultation be complete . will she reassure I and worker that everything be be do to ensure that do not happen , and that Jingye conduct its affair with respect to UK law ? my hon . friend be right , and we will do that . the offer that be put to British Steel and which be refuse include condition to do exactly that , as well as include a number of other thing around job , as we would expect . it be very important that any deal use british taxpayer ' money be do in a way that we know be within the law and be a good use of taxpayer ' money . I be very mindful of that , and I be constantly mindful of the insecurity that people who work at British Steel will feel , as well as the need for all of we to try to work as hard as we can to ensure that we get a good outcome for those people . I thank the hon . Lady for keep an open mind about what to do to save the remnant of our steel industry . do she not agree that it be vital that we maintain a strategic capability to make steel ? be it not unconscionable that we be build british warship with import steel ? I recognise that the situation represent the cumulative failing of government over many decade , but it be now time utterly to change our policy . that include the energy policy , which have prioritise thing other than price in relation to our energy - intensive industry . I be glad to hear that the Government have some answer to that , but to build up a strategic capability for wartime , which be what we now need to tool up for in this country , we need a wholesale change in energy policy . I hope that she will look for common cause between the two Front - Bench team , because this should be do on a consensus basis . we do not need to tear chunk out of one another for the mistake we have all make in the past . I agree with the hon . member ' s premise that we need to ensure that we have steel production in the UK , although there be some nuance around some of this . high - quality steel be be make , as we speak , for defence purpose by electric arc furnace . that be perfectly possible ; we melt scrap and add about 20 % of primary steel . for some thing , depend on what we be make — I know too much about the steel industry now — we do not need any primary steel . we be conduct a review of primary steel , which will be finish shortly . again , neither Tata nor British Steel be a critical supplier to defence programme at the moment , but we need that steel production , as I say before , so that we can build whatever we might need in the future . of course , we will work cross - party ; if that be his offer , it be very gladly take . the Minister should not waste the opportunity of a lifetime in the party of the right urge a party of the left to nationalise a british industry . one organisation that have be utterly consistent in all this be the GMB union : it write to the previous Government ' s Defence Secretary say that a business Minister have fail to answer clearly whether virgin steel be essential for defence . today ' s Minister seem to suggest that it might not be , but we must have a quantity of virgin steel , even if we add other thing to it , to embark on the process of make essential defence product . seize the opportunity : keep the blast furnace , and if necessary , nationalise they for good . if we get into conversation about different type of steel , it be like the Facebook update " it ' s complicated " , right ? it be complicated . for some thing , we absolutely need primary steel ; and for some thing , we do not . that be why we be carry out a fundamental review of steelmaking and the need for it here in the UK . those result will come out soon . the right hon . member be right that the GMB have be an advocate for this , as have Community and Unite . we talk to they regularly about British Steel . I have not fail to notice the slightly odd position that we find ourselves in today . I repeat that we be look at all option . the House will understand that we be talk about large amount of taxpayer ' money , which we have to spend in the right way , in a sensible way , and in a way that will get we what we need . that be what we be look at , and it be what we will do . these steelworker do not want visit from the DWP . they do not even want visit from out - of - touch Labour Back - Bench mps . what they want be their job : they want to make steel . it be interesting to hear from the Minister that all option be on the table . do they include Reform UK ' s policy of scrap net zero and renationalise British Steel ? it be good to hear that the worker in British Steel do not want visit from politician ; I assume the hon . member , and his party , will take his own advice . I hope that he will understand that we can not talk about the conversation that we be have with British Steel . it would be very disruptive to the process , the workforce there , the supply chain and commercial confidentiality . I can only repeat that our preference be that we come to an agreement with British Steel base on commercial term , with Government support , but we be look at all option and nothing be off the table . do the Minister agree that we appear to have hammer out a cross - party consensus on the need to ensure that this country be able to continue to produce virgin steel , just like every other G7 country , for a whole raft of reason ? do she agree that the case be underscored and reinforce by the Trump slump , by her party ' s welcome , albeit belate , pragmatism on net zero and , one hope , an attendant fall in energy cost , and by the Prime Minister ' s intriguing announcement of the end of globalisation ? do she agree that those three thing have underscore and reinforce the case for continue to produce virgin steel in this country ? I agree with the right hon . member that the world have change . we know that we be in a different position than that which we find ourselves in a few year ago . we need to ensure that we be secure as a country , and I believe steel be part of that answer . we also need to ensure that we be stop the decline of the steel industry , which be always the Labour party ' s wish in opposition . we be committed to the plan for steel — the £ 2 . 5 billion on top of the £ 500 billion that we be give to Tata Steel in Port Talbot . this be a real commitment to change how we operate the steel industry in this country , so that we stop this constant decline and start to grow the industry and ensure that we be produce the thing we need . the Minister seem to be on the verge of acknowledge that , as the last virgin steel production in the UK , Scunthorpe be critical national infrastructure and that the Government will nationalise it , if necessary . can she commit to the House that virgin steel production in the UK be critical national infrastructure and that , if necessary , she will indeed nationalise it to maintain this critical resource for UK defence ? I be afraid I have to disappoint the right hon . member , as I be not on the verge of anything . I repeat what I say , because it be the right thing to do : we will continue to negotiate with British Steel , mindful of the worker and the insecurity of the consultation they be currently undergo . we will ensure that we do the right thing through our plan for steel and our response to British Steel , and I can not say any more than that at this point . I thank the Minister for her comment . give the vital importance of this industry , on which I believe the whole House agree , do she recognise that it would be a siren to those who , on a national scale , would be less than trustworthy , if we be unable to produce virgin steel ourselves ? give the undoubted national security risk , do she agree that , despite no option be off the table , one outcome that be absolutely off the table be closure ? if so , why not just commit to protect and save these job ? British Steel be a private company own by Jingye , and it be for Jingye to make its own decision . I have say multiple time that we will continue to talk to see if we can come to an agreement on the very generous offer that be make . we be look at all option , because we know that be the right thing to do . to be clear , we do not want the blast furnace to close , and we want to come to an agreement . I wish the Minister would stop say that some of these issue be complicated , and therefore that we should not debate they . we be send here to debate complicated issue , and she be suppose to be here to answer our question . we be witness the absurd spectacle of the Government beg a chinese company to take taxpayer ' money to keep British Steel alive , while China suppress its own cost and dump its steel on other country . we may soon be the only G7 country incapable of produce primary steel . the Minister brush off the reality of crippling british energy cost , which will only get bad in the year ahead as a matter of deliberate Government policy . why will she not guarantee the supply of the raw material need to keep the blast furnace open , and why will she not admit that steel have no future in this country so long as this Government ' s trade and climate policy continue ? if only the hon . Member have do something when he have some influence as an adviser to a previous Prime Minister . that would have be good , wouldn ' t it ? I be not send here to divulge commercially confidential conversation with a private company that affect thousand of people ' s job , and if the hon . Member think that I be , he be wrong . we be not go to do that , nor be we beg anywhere for anything — you be . no , absolutely not , and I be disappointed that the hon . Member would speak in that way . as he know , we be have a conversation about a potential deal that we believe be there to be do with British Steel . on the wide issue , it be a fact that China produce 53 % of the world ' s steel , and we have huge issue with that , as the hon . Member know . the tariff have over - complicated the situation , which be why the Secretary of State be meet the Trade Remedies Authority today , why we be look at our trade strategy , and why we be talk to the Americans to make sure we can do a deal with they . we will continue to ensure that we have all the protection we need , in term of stop the onshoring of steel as much as we can . those conversation will continue . the TRA be now look at steel , and we expect those result quite soon . the Minister use the interesting stat that 53 % of the world ' s steel be produce by China . if we look back at the lead - up to Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , and the way that Russia start to dominate the nuclear fuel market in particular by push out western provider , we see that there be a reason why China and Russia be behave this way : they want to control the raw material that be critical for national security around the world . this House be debate the prospect of a Chinese - own company turn off our blast furnace in this country in a month ' s time . that can not be an acceptable position to be in . this have be ask several time , but it have not be answer : will the Minister commit to order the raw material to keep those furnace on , if necessary ? she say in response to a question on primary steel that a consultation be under way on a strategy , and that we would look at what we need to do . it be clear what we need to do : produce primary steel . that be what we be tell the previous Government for many year . British Steel be own by a chinese company because the purchase be make under the last government in a commercial and private sector way . Labour member believe in fair , open market ; I do not know quite what the opposition be become . on China , our priority be UK job and steel production . we believe in a fair , open market for foreign investment , and in have mature and balanced relationship with trading partner such as China . we will ensure protection for the steel industry in the UK , and make sure we do the right thing . on primary steel and the material that the hon . Member want I to commit to spend million of pound on , I think most member would understand that I can not commit to anything like that at this time and place . I thank the Minister for her answer to the question — they have be very helpful . my concern be not only about retain UK steel , but for the worker . the potential for 2 , 700 people to lose their job be frightening , and I think of all the family who will be directly impact by this . will the Minister confirm that ahead of any announcement make on Scunthorpe steel , she will commit to meet the worker who will be directly affect by any decision , and provide a way forward , so that worker in the steel industry be secure in their employment and be protect throughout the United Kingdom ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we of course continue to talk to the trade union , include Community , GMB and Unite , who have be incredibly strong voice for their worker in Scunthorpe . we will continue to talk to they and to people who work there , to understand exactly what they be go through . they have to be at the heart of all the decision we make . Zero Emission Vehicle Mandate with permission , I shall make a statement about the zero emission vehicle mandate . today , this Government be give british car maker certainty and support on the transition to electric vehicle , as we set out plan to back industry in the face of global economic headwind . we have work in close partnership and at pace with colleague in the Scottish Government , the Welsh Government and the Northern Ireland Executive , whom I would like to thank . the automotive industry be a cornerstone of our economy . it support over 150 , 000 job and generate £ 19 billion every year . today , with government backing , it must negotiate the turbulence of fresh global economic challenge . for too long , the sector have be hold back by a lack of long - term certainty . that change now . this Government listen and act . we have listen to car manufacturer , large and small , from Sunderland to solihull , and from Crewe to Coventry . car maker have tell we what they need to not just survive , but thrive . what they want be what we be deliver : practical , sensible reform that will unlock investment , protect job and strengthen Britain ' s leadership in the zero emission transition . today , I can confirm that the Government be maintain our manifesto commitment to phase out the sale of new petrol and diesel car by 2030 . I can also reconfirm our commitment to all new car and van be 100 % zero emission from 2035 ; there be no change to the trajectory of the transition set out in the ZEV mandate regulation . we support the role of hybrid vehicle as a crucial step - stone in that journey ; new full hybrid and plug - in hybrid will be on sale until 2035 . that strike the right balance . we be be firm on our climate commitment , but flexible on how we meet they , because our aim be not to impose change for its own sake , but to enable industry to make the transition in a way that match supply with demand , and to support business , and the job that they provide , every step of the way . we be significantly increase the flexibility within the ZEV mandate . manufacturer will have more freedom on how they meet target , include the ability to sell more ev towards the end of this decade , when demand be project to be high . we be also extend the ability to borrow and repay credit through to 2030 , and the ability to earn credit for clean up non - ZEV fleet all the way out to 2029 , so that company can manage their pathway more effectively . this recognise the real - world challenge that british business face , and give they the smooth possible road to run on . we be also reduce fine for miss ZEV target from £ 15 , 000 to £ 12 , 000 per vehicle . where fine be levy — for the vast majority of manufacturer , they will not be — the revenue will be recycle directly back into support for the sector , because this government invest in solution and do not punish ambition . let I be clear : this be not a retreat from our ambition on ev — quite the opposite . it be right that the threat of fine remain , as it be an inescapable fact that the domestic transport sector remain the UK ' s single large carbon emitter , account for 30 % of emission in 2024 . that be why we be double down on our commitment to the electric transition . there be more than £ 2 . 3 billion available to support industry and consumer . that include funding for new battery factory , ev supply chain and charge infrastructure , and grant for zero emission vehicle . the public be already lead the way . March see a 43 % increase in electric vehicle sale , compare to the same month last year . February be a record month too , with EVs account for one in four new car sale . that surge in demand show that we be move in the right direction , but it also show the importance of maintain momentum , so we will continue work with industry to ensure demand keep pace with supply , build a sustainable market for the long term . the infrastructure be grow , too . there be over 75 , 000 public charge point now available , and more than £ 6 billion of private investment be line up for UK charge point roll - out by 2030 . today , a new charge point be instal every 29 minute . that be more than 50 every day . family charge at home can now save up to £ 1 , 000 a year , compare with petrol driver . an ev charge at home overnight can run for as little as 2p a mile . that be put money in people ' s pocket while relieve pressure on the planet . we know that one size do not fit all , which be why small and micro - manufacturer will be exempt from the new measure . it be why van will have five extra year to go green , because we recognise their unique role in the economy and in give business the time that they need to adapt . it be why we be make space for hybrid vehicle in the mix , not as a compromise , but as a contribution . hybrid offer low emission today without require overnight shift in drive behaviour or infrastructure . they build public confidence , support choice and ensure that no one be leave behind in the transition . this be not just a transport , environmental or economic policy ; it be part of this Government ' s plan for change . it be a long - term effort to deliver clean , sustainable and high - quality growth , create new job in battery production , ev supply chain and infrastructure , anchor manufacturing here in the UK and support skilled apprenticeship in clean tech and advanced engineering . with today ' s announcement , british name such as Rolls - Royce , Land Rover and Vauxhall will have the certainty they need to plan , invest and lead . we be back british business to succeed at home and abroad . these reform be fair to manufacturer , reasonable for worker and right for the climate challenge ahead . I know some people might retreat to tired argument about a war on motorist , but this Government be focus on real challenge , not imaginary grievance . Most of we be motorist or passenger ; we be all in this together . what we need be not division , but direction , and that be what we be deliver today by listen to industry , follow the datum and build a strategy ground in evidence and ambition . when we come into government , we promise to prioritise one thing above all else : growth — for industry ; for clean transport ; and for people , place and pay packet . with these bold , practical reform , back by the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , that be exactly what we be deliver . I commend this statement to the House . I think , on his birthday , we should hear from the shadow Secretary of State . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I will not embarrass myself by announce how old I be , but it be far too old . we have just check . I thank the Secretary of State — [ interruption . ] that be a very helpful intervention by the hon . gentleman ; he be completely right . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for advance sight of it . the announcement by the United States of America that 25 % tariff will be impose on UK automotive export have understandably cause significant concern in the automotive sector . automotive manufacturer now face tariff of 25 % on around £ 8 billion - worth of car and auto part export — a potentially devastating blow for the automotive industry . I assure the Secretary of State that we will support the government when they do sensible thing to reverse the impact on our already fragile economy . in that vein , I be glad that the Government have recommit to negotiate a well deal with our close ally and large single - country trading partner , and I sincerely hope that they be successful in their negotiation . however , on the substance of the right hon . Lady ' s statement , I can not share her enthusiasm for the rest of Labour ' s plan . the reality be that today , Labour be simply try to clear up the uncertainty that it have contribute to . when the previous Conservative Government react to sluggish automotive trade figure by make the pragmatic decision to delay the ban on new diesel and petrol car from 2030 to 2035 , align the UK with major global economy such as France , Germany , Sweden and Canada , Labour accuse we of undermine the automotive industry . this morning , the Secretary of State criticise the previous Government for chop and change , and a consultation put out by Labour claim that our policy cause " great harm " to the UK ' s reputation as a lead nation in the EV transition by move the goalpost . however , that be precisely what Labour do upon take office by ideologically reverse the 2035 deadline . the plan announce over the weekend do not place the automotive sector in a well position than it be when we leave office , despite some minor adjustment to the zero emission vehicle mandate . what be more , this announcement will not undo the damage that this Labour Government have already cause . their introduction of a £ 25 billion national insurance job tax in their first Budget be a major blow to business ; we have warn for month that this tax will harm industry , and the automotive sector be no exception . the Secretary of State will know that US tariff on UK car export be set to cost the automotive sector £ 1 . 9 billion . combine with the Government ' s job tax — which be predict by the Office for Budget Responsibility to put 50 , 000 job at risk , and be likely to cost the automotive sector an additional £ 200 million — that double whammy be go to be very difficult for the sector to absorb . indeed , despite today ' s announcement , the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have state that zero emission vehicle mandate target remain " incredibly challenging " . in its word : " ZEV Mandate target be incredibly challenging , especially with a paucity of consumer demand and geopolitical upheaval . grow ev demand to the level need still require equally bold fiscal incentive … to give motorist full confidence to switch " , but that be not what the Government be offer . instead of the " bold change " that the Prime Minister boast of at the weekend , what we have be mere tinker at the edge . allow producer of luxury vehicle , such as Aston Martin and McLaren , to be exempt from the 2030 ban on the sale on new internal combustion engine vehicle be welcome , as be the news that all form of hybrid car will be available until 2035 . however , this do not go anything like far enough . the Government be still propose to increase the level of tax liability on the value of hybrid company car by as much as 16 % , which could potentially cost individual driver thousand of pound each . the reduction in fine for miss ev sale target from £ 15 , 000 to £ 12 , 000 per vehicle be nothing to be celebrate — it be like drown at the depth of 100 metre instead of 120 metre . over the past few month , we have hear from numerous business that they simply can not cope with the ZEV mandate . in October , the chief executive officer of Jaguar Land Rover warn that the mandate be cause severe disruption to the new car market . not long after , Vauxhall announce the closure of its Luton factory , cite the ZEV mandate as a key factor in make that plant economically unviable . more recently , uncertainty have surround Plant Oxford , the home of the Mini since 1959 . last year , exclude fleet sale , the fact be that only 10 % of private purchase of new vehicle be electric . far from do retailer a favour , the Government ' s offer to fine they a small amount less for fail to sell a product that consumer demonstrably do not want be a kick in the tooth to the automotive industry . I must therefore ask the Secretary of State the follow question . with just one in 10 private buyer purchase an electric vehicle in 2024 , why be the Government still try to force people to buy something for which there be limited consumer demand at present ? be she really pretend that any of the measure announce today be not already in train before the tariff be announce ? will she commit to reverse the hike in the hybrid company car tax ? do she really think that reduce the fine for each car that fail to comply with ev quota will be enough to mitigate the impact of tariff ? do she not believe that , rather than chase an arbitrary timeline , now be the time for a more gradual transition to electric vehicle , one that would allow the sector to mitigate many of the challenge it be currently face ? finally , do she recognise that the combined impact of the ZEV mandate , the job tax and external tariff be a perfect storm for the automotive sector , which be face significant and exacerbated challenge because of the choice her party have make over the past nine month ? I also extend my birthday wish to the shadow Secretary of State . I hope he be grateful for the two birthday present I have give he : not only a statement but a general debate , so that we can face each other across the Dispatch Box not once but twice today . it be rich for the shadow Secretary of State to blame uncertainty in the automotive sector on this Government . I can only think that he have some sort of selective amnesia go on , because it be his Government who introduce this policy . they then delay the phase - out date , tank ev demand by 15 % almost overnight . we have the spectacle of the previous Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) stand up to make a speech push that date back out to 2035 . almost overnight , we see those sale tank . the shadow Secretary of State should be explain to Britain ' s car manufacturer why his party faffe about so much , cost they million and arguably leave the sector less resilient to the global economic headwind it now face . the shadow Secretary of State claim that this be a moment when we be tinker at the edge , but nothing could be far from the truth . this be a significant moment for industry . he quote the smmt , and I just gently say to he that Mike Hawes , its chief executive , say this morning : " the government have rightly listen to industry , respond quickly to global dynamic and recognise the intense pressure manufacturer be under . " the shadow Secretary of State be also right to raise Jaguar Land Rover , which be affect by the imposition of the global tariff that President Trump announce recently . I point out to the hon . gentleman that Adrian Mardell , CEO at JLR say : " we welcome our announcement of the increase flexibility in the zero emission vehicle mandate , and the clear commitment from Government to incentivise electric vehicle uptake and invest in infrastructure . " the shadow Secretary of State also say that consumer do not want to buy electric vehicle . he need to do his homework ; the UK be the third large market for electric vehicle in the world , after the US and China . it be the large market in Europe . last year — [ interruption . ] he can chunter as much as he want . last year , 382 , 000 ev be sell . we have have record figure in February and March this year , where we have see demand for ev go up by more than 40 % compare with the same month in the previous year . the shadow Secretary of State claim that we be go to make this announcement anyway . well , he be right that we have be talk to industry for a number of month , and we be always go to have to do something to clear up the dog ' s breakfast of a policy leave by his Government . clearly , the announcement last week about US tariff on the car industry have make it all the more important that we act with pace and urgency . it be completely right that we have provide the certainty and clarity for which the sector have be call for year . the shadow Secretary of State claim we be not go far enough . we be invest £ 2 billion in an automotive transformation fund , which will ensure we can build the battery gigafactorie of the future , support the ev supply chain and ensure that those high - skilled job of the future be available in community across the country . between now and 2030 , we be spend £ 200 million support the roll - out of charge point , back by £ 6 billion of private investment . we be spend £ 120 million on plug - in vehicle grant , give people who want to purchase a new van up to £ 2 , 500 and those want to purchase a large van up to £ 5 , 000 . I say to the shadow Secretary of State that this Government be act where his Government fail . we be give certainty to business , protect job in a critical industry , cut carbon and foster a competitive market to benefit consumer . today ' s news on support for our automotive industry in the move towards electric vehicle will be welcome by my constituent , include those who work for the nearby Toyota plant at Burnaston . will the Secretary of State continue this encouraging level of engagement and responsiveness to industry concern ? will she confirm that , to make sure that the transition be a success , this Government ' s wide industrial strategy will further back british auto manufacturer ? I know that the Under - Secretary responsible for the future of road , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , have visit the Burnaston plant in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I understand what a critical employer it be locally . Toyota will benefit from many of the change that we have announce today . we be allow the sale of both full hybrid such as the Toyota Prius and plug - in hybrid after 2030 , and Toyota will also benefit from the extension and expansion of the co2 transfer cap . moreover , if it be ever in a position in which it need to pay fine , it will pay they at a low level — and we would , of course , reinvest that money in support the sector . I can give my hon . friend the assurance that she and her constituent want : we will continue to support this vital sector . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for advance sight of it . let I also congratulate the shadow Secretary of State on his birthday , and note that he be much young than the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be clear that the Government must take urgent step to help the car industry make the switch to electric vehicle . although increase flexibility in the mandate be welcome , voice across the industry have make it clear that we also need to bolster demand by lower the barrier for individual and business to purchase electric vehicle . as the Secretary of State know , the recent surge in demand to which she refer be a result of significant discounting to promote sale . it be crucial that , as well as improve the charge network , we end the inequality between public and private charging by bring the vat rate for public charging into line with that for home charging , at 5 % rather than 20 % . not only be the present system damage demand , but it be wrong to penalise those who have no access to private charging . minister should also postpone the increase in vehicle tax on electric car , and explore the possibility of reintroduce the plug - in car grant . as the Secretary of State make clear on the medium round this morning , the spectre of Trump ' s tariff also loom large over the industry . if the Government be serious about protect car manufacturing in the UK , the Prime Minister must continue to work with our ally in Europe and around the world on a co - ordinate response . the only way to tackle Trump be to negotiate from a position of strength , and to show that the UK be not alone and will not be bully . may I ask the Secretary of State three question ? first , what conversation have she have with the Chancellor about lower the public charging rate to 5 % , and what other measure be the Government consider to strengthen ev demand ? secondly , can she confirm that the measure announce today be a response to the ZEV consultation that end in February , and tell we what , if any , additional measure be be consider in respect of the tariff that have since be announce ? thirdly , will the Government start negotiation with the EU about the formation of a UK - EU custom union , to cut red tape not only for vehicle manufacturer but for all UK industry ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that the Government keep the vat variation between public and private charging under review . the 20 % standard rate to which public charge point be subject apply to most good and service , with very few exemption . we be try to give people low - cost and affordable option for public charging by invest £ 380 million to roll out overnight charger , which be cheap and will be instal to help those without a driveway . today , Brighton & Hove City Council confirm that it have sign the contract to deliver 6 , 000 of those charger , and in February Midlands Connect announce that it be roll out more than 16 , 000 across the midland , help driver to charge their vehicle for less . the hon . Gentleman ask I whether today ' s announcement be a response to the consultation that we launch at the end of December , which close in February . it be indeed a Government response to that consultation . as for the discussion that we will have with european colleague , we will continue those discussion . although the hon . Gentleman try to tempt I into give he a commitment to rejoin an EU customs union , I be afraid that that be not a commitment I can give . on behalf of those of my constituent who work at JLR Halewood , I thank my right hon . friend for the stability and confidence that she have give to our automotive industry ; it will be enormously reassuring to they . the last Government confirm through Mark Harper , the then Secretary of State , that it be already cheap for driver to switch to electric vehicle — he do so from the Dispatch Box this time last year . for those of we who be able to plug in at home , it be cheap by up to £ 1 , 000 per family , as she say in her statement . may I encourage she to work with the Energy Secretary on reduce the cost of electricity more widely to benefit those of we who can not plug in at home , and to improve consumer demand , which be so crucial to support our manufacturer ? I can assure my hon . friend that I will continue to work across Government with colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , and in the Department for Business and Trade , in order to make the take - up of EVs as affordable as possible for individual who want to make the transition . he be entirely right to point out that , compare with a petrol car , driver can save up to £ 1 , 000 a year if they mostly charge at home , and that an ev can be run for as little as 2p per mile if charge at home . half of all use electric car be now sell for under £ 20 , 000 , and there be 29 brand - new electric car on the market for under £ 30 , 000 . I be proud to have Ford ' s UK technical headquarters , which employ thousand of fantastic worker in high - quality R & D job , at Dunton in my Basildon and Billericay constituency , and element of what the Secretary of State have announce today will certainly be very welcome . on the flip side , local business that rely on the Ford HQ — and , in fact , the entire automotive sector — see a £ 200 million - a - year increase in national insurance kick in yesterday . today , small business in my constituency , many of which work in London , face charge on the Blackwall tunnel for the first time ever and charge on the Silvertown tunnel , which mean that many will face charge of £ 35 a day , just to operate in London . will the Secretary of State raise those issue with her colleague the Mayor of London and the Chancellor of the Exchequer ? could she also tell we how long the plug - in van grant will be extend ? we know it will be there in 2026 , but for how much long ? I be struggle to decipher a question in the speech that be forthcoming from the other side of the Chamber . the right hon . Gentleman ask I to comment on the opening of the Silvertown tunnel in east London . I suspect that a number of his constituent — regardless of whether they be drive for work or to try to reach friend and family — have be stick in absolutely atrocious traffic north and south of the Blackwall tunnel . for the first time ever , London ' s double - deck red bus will now be able to cross the Thames east of Tower Bridge . I hope that he might join I in congratulate both the Mayor of London and Transport for London on get a new river crossing open , which be much need . the news over the weekend that Jaguar Land Rover be pause shipment to the United States be worry for many of my constituent . JLR employ 9 , 000 people at its factory in nearby Solihull , and support thousand of job in the wide supply chain . after the flip - flopping of previous government , this Government have act decisively to give british car maker certainty and support in the transition to electric vehicle . can the Minister confirm whether she be plan to build flexibility into the mandate target ? that be precisely what we have do . I reassure my hon . friend that I have be in touch directly with Jaguar Land Rover over the last couple of day , and I be pleased that we have be able to provide the company and other car manufacturer with certainty at this very difficult time . we have be able to do that this week , and I hope it will provide some comfort to her constituent who be employ at that local facility . as someone who have never buy a new motor vehicle , apart from a motorcycle , may I probe the Secretary of State far on what she say about the second - hand ev market ? for family that will never be able to afford a new vehicle , do she anticipate a time when the second - hand ev market will be comparable in price to the second - hand market for conventional vehicle ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . he be right to mention the second - hand market : 80 % of car purchase in any give year be in the second - hand market . I be tell that , at the moment , some of the most popular product on AutoTrader be second - hand ev . they be sell very well , and he be completely right that these vehicle need to be affordable to everyone and an option for everyone , so I be make hopeful by the green shoot we be see in the second - hand market at the moment . rise — order . member with lengthy question be just prevent their colleague from get in , so please keep your question short . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and the leadership she be show in deliver our manifesto commitment in partnership with industry . the contrast be clear with the Opposition , who be bring along uncoste idea for grant , subsidy and tax cut . I welcome the reaffirmation of the plan to roll out ev charging , but be she sure that that will be able to meet ev demand , and be there any plan for a battery health check to help reassure people buy use vehicle in the second - hand market ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we be work with the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe on the battery health check issue that he raise . I assure he that we be work closely with the private sector on the roll - out of charge point infrastructure . as I say in my statement , a new ev charger be currently instal every 29 minute , or at a rate of 50 a day . only a couple of week ago , I visit the new InstaVolt charge super - hub in Winchester , which , when one see it , really be a glimpse into the future . it be imperative that the Government continue to work with the private sector to make sure that the charge infrastructure be there for everyone in the place where they need it when they need it . UK business in the automotive supply chain , both across the country and in my constituency , need more support . indeed , the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders agree that a package of measure be need for the supply chain . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to support the need of the supply chain specifically ? give that she be not inclined to be tempt by my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) implore she that we should join an EU - UK custom union , what assessment have the Department make of the cost of not do so ? the hon . member will be aware that the Cabinet Office lead on the EU reset negotiation , so she might most appropriately put that question to my colleague in the Cabinet Office . on her wide question about support for the EV supply chain , we have announce the automotive transformation fund to a value of £ 2 billion , part of which be specifically for support the ev supply chain . many of my North Durham constituent proudly work at Nissan in the constituency of my neighbour my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . Nissan Sunderland ' s 6 , 000 staff make excellent car , include hybrid and electric vehicle . my right hon . friend deserve credit for put together at pace a package that have be welcome by industry , but she be right to suggest that this be only one piece of the puzzle . what more will she and Ministers be do to support the sector in the come month ? we will continue to roll out the electric charge infrastructure , which be really important to give consumer confidence . the time to switch to EVs be now . we will continue to have the plug - in vehicle grant for individual who be think about purchase a new van . we will also continue to keep under review what else can be do to stimulate demand and make sure we maintain the momentum that we be see in the market in the first few month of this year . I welcome what I think the Secretary of State have announce about small luxury vehicle manufacturer such as Aston Martin , which be base in my constituency . I say " I think " because her statement say that " small … manufacturer will be exempt from these new measure . " I would be grateful if she clarify whether that refer to the exist mandate of measure , because she know that that be what the small manufacturer in question have be lobby to be exempt from , rather than the loosening she have announce today . if she can confirm that , and she be rely on an argument that we can treat small luxury manufacturer differently from everyone else , would she commend that argument to her colleague the Trade Secretary in the discussion on tariff with the United States ? I can confirm to the right hon . and learn Gentleman that small and micro manufacturer be exempt from the ZEV mandate , but they will need to comply with the 2035 complete phase - out date , as per all other manufacturer . I hope the rest of the shadow Secretary of State ' s birthday be rather well than the last half hour ; I do not think his contribution today will age very well at all . the measure the Government be propose be a sensible compromise . the industry do need certainty . there be real concern about that , as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) and other Derbyshire mps hear on a recent visit to Toyota , so the measure absolutely strike the right balance . what can the Secretary of State say to my constituent who live in either council flat or terrace property , which make home charge more difficult , about what more we can do to ensure they be not face with a huge price disparity in comparison to those who be able to have charge infrastructure at home ? we issue guidance to local authority before Christmas on cross - pavement solution , and we be offer a grant of up to £ 350 for household with on - street parking . I hope those two thing together will offer some comfort to my hon . friend ' s constituent who be in the situation he describe . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . pace be need , understandably , but I do have some concern in that due process need to be follow with the devolved administration . can she assure the House that sufficient time be be allow for the devolved administration , include the Scottish Government , to be fully involve and engage in a consultation on policy development , and the Scottish Parliament for any legislative change that may be require ? secondly , what assessment have be make of the potential for those change to impact negatively on carbon emission in the UK and Scotland , and our respective government ' ability to meet statutory climate change target ? will she publish any such assessment ? I would like to put on record my thank to the Scottish Government for their assistance in work at pace over the past couple of day . I commit to the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague in the Scottish Government to work closely with they and that be exactly what I have do . with regard to carbon assessment , we have conduct a carbon assessment . I can assure he that today ' s propose change make a negligible change to the carbon emission that be predict to be save as a result of the ZEV mandate . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , give the uncertainty and turmoil cause by US tariff on British - make vehicle . will she outline how she be respond to major employer such as Jaguar Land Rover , to ensure they can remain competitive and safeguard job in our local community , as share by member from across the House ? as I may have say to other colleague , JLR will stand to benefit from the flexibility we have announce today : the increase borrowing flexibility ; the extension and the expansion of the carbon dioxide transfer cap ; and the change we talk about on the way we measure co2 emission from plug - in hybrid , which will make it easy for they to use the co2 transfer flexibility . I think all those thing we have announce today will be welcome by JLR and , hopefully , by her constituent employ at the factory . if the Government ' s top priority really be growth , a policy that set artificial target to ban product that people want to buy , which be not subsidise , to force they to buy cheap chinese product that they do not really want , which be subsidise , do not sound like a policy for growth . incidentally , they also suffer from very high insurance cost and high depreciation cost , and may lead to the closing down of capacity to produce in the United Kingdom the product that people do want to buy . the Secretary of State may have priority , but growth be not one of they . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman speak to his constituent , who be buy ev in number . there have be a 40 % increase — I ' ve get one ! the hon . Gentleman be tell I that he have one , which be fantastic — he be clearly lead the way . this be a massive industrial opportunity for this country and we need to give certainty and confidence to both business and consumer , which be precisely what this Government be do . if the hon . Gentleman wish to become the poster boy for the ev industry , I would be very happy to have a conversation with he about that . rise — order . colleague and the Secretary of State must be much swifter — we have another statement and two further debate . anneliese Dodds , show we how it be do . worker at BMW Cowley have make clear to I their determination to play their part in a job - rich transition to net zero . can my right hon . friend explain how these change will benefit BMW Cowley specifically , give its significance for my constituency and for UK manufacturing as a whole ? we be confirm today that we will maintain the exist co2 score for plug - in hybrid instead of use the revised score that be now be use in the EU . that will be of particular benefit to BMW and the Mini Cowley plant . the car industry will be hard hit by Trump ' s tariff , as my constituency know well than most ; our single large employer , McLaren , sell 42 % of its product to the US . will the Minister consider retaliatory tariff , particularly against Tesla , to protect british job and show that tariff have consequence ? McLaren will , of course , benefit from the exemption we have announce today for small and micro manufacturer . we be consider our position regard the imposition of tariff , and the Business Secretary be consult industry on future step . I would say , however , that an escalate trade war be not in anyone ' s good interest . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . Harlow be a new town , and it have a number of property that do not have off - street parking . I ask she to drill down on the guidance she have give to local councillor on what they can do to provide more off - street charge facility . my hon . friend be totally right . this be a critical issue . the guidance that we publish before Christmas be vital , as be the grant we be give to household . it be not just the absurdity of fine firm for make the wrong car , and insist that be good for growth ; it be that the national grid and local distribution network do not have the capacity to cope with grow demand now , let alone if and when car and central heating be electrify , as the Government promise , and all those datum centre be build . can the Secretary of State confirm that the connection queue stand at 756 GW and that only 0 . 54 GW be deliver in the past month , while the queue grow by 21 . 8 GW ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I be in regular contact with the Energy Secretary to ensure that we have the grid connection and capability for the ev charging infrastructure that we need . Jaguar Land Rover and its wide supply chain employ huge number of people in my constituency , so I be very glad to see the Prime Minister and the Transport Secretary back our automotive industry so strongly today . this commitment make clear our strong climate commitment , but also our support for the transition in the industry . will the Secretary of State say more about how we will support demand - side change to get ev charge point across town such as Oldbury and West Brom in my constituency ? of course , the Prime Minister be at JLR in the midland today . we be spend £ 200 million of public money to support the roll - out of ev infrastructure , which sit alongside £ 6 billion of private investment to ensure that charge point be where people need they , when they need they . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and answer . over time , UK government have commit hundred of million of pound to perfect electric vehicle charge infrastructure in England , but back home in Northern Ireland , the ratio of charge point to electric vehicle be not sufficient . it be nowhere near the level on the mainland , and we be a much more rural community . will the Minister ensure that through the Barnett consequential , additional attention be pay to give the devolved institution the funding necessary to make sure that electric vehicle charge infrastructure can meet the demand of the electric vehicle on the road ? the hon . Gentleman raise a fair point about the availability of charge point infrastructure in all place in the UK . it be a matter I look forward to discuss with my counterpart in Northern Ireland when I next have the opportunity to meet they . I thank the Secretary of State on behalf of my constituent , many of whom work for Jaguar Land Rover and Aston Martin . this update be very welcome news , especially the change for small and micro manufacturer and for hybrid , too , particularly in the light of Washington ' s tariff last week . electrification and hydrogen be the future . I look at China with its market of 12 million electric car — 38 % to 50 % of its vehicle be now electric . can I urge the Government to look once again at support for manufacturer , which be subsidise in the sale of electric vehicle ? the automotive transformation fund that I mention early be a sizeable investment that the Government commit to at the last Budget . I look forward to hear my hon . friend ' s idea about how it might well be utilise . one of the major issue hold back wide ev ownership be the complete lack of ev charge infrastructure in town such as Huntingdon and St Ives in my constituency . what assessment have the Government make of the grid capacity require to facilitate a significant uplift in ev charging infrastructure , and how much will the upgrade cost ? at what point will current grid capacity be unable to provide adequate charging ? separately , what be the plan for a significant increase in ev battery disposal and to address the prohibitive cost of new battery for old electric vehicle ? those be matter that the Department constantly review . regard grid capacity , I refer the hon . gentleman to my early answer to the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) . to make sure the transition be a success , can the Secretary of State confirm that the Government ' s wide industrial strategy will back british auto manufacturer and british supply chain far and ensure that this be a place - base growth agenda for all our community ? I can confirm that for my hon . friend , and we will be publish the industrial strategy soon . this be about create the job of the future in high - skilled industry and the right condition for growth , and that be completely what the Government be commit to do . the Transport Secretary omit to mention that UK car production last year be at its low level for 70 year , aside from the pandemic ; that UK car production this year be down a further 11 % ; and that total registration of electric and hybrid car this year be down another 2 % . will the Minister agree that the good thing to do to ensure growth and increase production be to scrap all these ridiculous zero emission target forthwith ? no , I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman . the number of new car sell in the UK last year be 1 . 9 million , and the market grow by 2 . 6 % on 2023 . the number of new EVs sell last year be 382 , 000 , which be nearly 20 % of the market and represent a 21 % growth on 2023 . I commend the Secretary of State for stand up for cheap and clean british car in the face of the global chaos be force on our economy — particularly in the light of the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal , which wreck Britain ' s car industry and lose this country a decade of golden british manufacturing . my constituent in Bournemouth East be cry out for charge infrastructure . the Secretary of State say that nobody would be leave behind . can she outline how she will invest in charge infrastructure to make sure that everybody who want to can be part of the electric vehicle revolution ? this be a partnership between public investment and the private sector . I assure my hon . friend that we will be pay attention to Bournemouth , as we will to all other part of the country . I rise to speak as a very satisfied second - hand ev driver . I visit Ohme ' s head office last month to learn about how home charging of EVs can revolutionise the energy market and help EVs become a way of manage our grid , as well as a way to drive . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to accelerate work on flexible generation of storage to help to drive demand for business and home and to make Britain the start place of this revolution ? official in my Department be look at this issue very closely . I would be interested in learn more from the hon . member about the visit she make to the business in her constituency . South Norfolk be proudly home to Lotus Cars . this morning , I have a conversation with the management team , who welcome the announcement . in our long - term plan for the car manufacturing industry , what action will the Government be take for UK - base original equipment manufacturer to ensure that we have a good plan for the EV transition so that we be competitive in future market ? everything that the Government be do , and everything in the announcement , be about ensure that our british business be competitive . I be pleased to hear that Lotus be pleased with what we have announce . I understand that other british brand such as McLaren , Bentley and Caterham be also pleased with the announcement , which be all about the Government ' s commitment to drive growth and opportunity . I be concerned about public health . we all know that diesel and petrol hybrid be not zero emission , we know that the 2035 extension be not about tariff — it apply only to UK sale — and we know that the move be already on the card since Labour rip clean air out of its manifesto completely . have the Secretary of State assess the impact of the announcement on the achievement of clean air target commitment ? be this the last we will hear of any clean air Act from this Government ? I assure the hon . Lady that an analysis of environmental impact have be do , and that relate to both carbon emission and air pollution . the Secretary of State be correct to say that demand for electric vehicle be strong , but in my rural Norfolk constituency the lack of charge infrastructure over the last 14 year have leave many not want to make that switch . will she confirm that rural area such as Norfolk will be prioritise for such charge infrastructure in the future ? we increase the installation of ev charge infrastructure in rural area by 45 % in the last year . I hope that my hon . friend and his constituent will start to see the fruit of that soon . autonomous vehicle be the next step into the future . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with UK manufacturer to ensure that they can take full advantage of the next revolution in how we use car ? we regularly talk to manufacturer and other organisation that be interested in the move to connected and autonomous vehicle , and we be open to explore how that might work in the UK . we need to do it in a safe way , but I be interested in how we might expedite trial in the UK . that be a subject that we be work on at the moment . I do not know which businesse the shadow Secretary of State or indeed the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) have be listen to , but I have speak to business include Honda , whose european headquarters be just outside my constituency , and they have say that they be commit to decarbonisation but have concern about the inflexibility of the scheme that we inherit from the conservative party . do the Secretary of State agree that the statement show that Labour be the party on the side of the british car industry , and of the industry across the world ? my hon . friend be entirely right . we be back british business and support our domestic car manufacturing industry . I be pleased to hear that the company base in his constituency will be welcome the announcement . previous Labour and conservative Governments do little when Welsh livelihood be sweep away by global market force at place such as the Ford plant in Bridgend and the steelwork in Port Talbot . Wales ' s car sector be face 25 % tariff thank to President Trump . that threaten an industry that employ 30 , 000 people . the Welsh Automotive Forum have say that the Government ' s commitment be not enough ; it be call for direct support . recycled fine be hardly direct support . be the Government prepare to step up and provide that ? we have a £ 2 billion automotive transformation fund , and we be invest hundred of million of pound in other form of support . I work closely with the Welsh Government on these issue . we will leave no stone unturned in our attempt to protect the car manufacturing industry and preserve high - skilled job in community in Wales and across the rest of the country . my constituency need charge infrastructure , so I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s statement and her answer to colleague across the House . in Leeds South West and Morley , many resident live in terrace house without driveway . some of they have contact I ask what they need to do to get the charge infrastructure require for an electric vehicle . I promise one such resident that I would raise that with the Secretary of State . what update can she give on our commitment to charge infrastructure across the UK ? I congratulate my hon . friend on fulfil his promise to his constituent . we be work closely with local authority through the local electric vehicle infrastructure — LEVI — scheme to roll out charge infrastructure , and we have issue the guidance that I mention early to local authority on improve cross - pavement charging solution . there be also grant available for householder who do not have a driveway but who wish to install a charge point . save the good till last , I call Sammy Wilson . the statement today be further evidence of the economically damaging and market - distort impact of the unrealistic net zero policy . the only reason that the Minister be have to impose fine on producer be that demand do not meet the target that she have set for the production of electric vehicle . do she not accept that the response from producer will be either to cut back production , reduce job , or to reduce the price of ev , reduce profit and investment in the UK ? be car worker go to be the next group of worker to be sacrifice on the altar of net zero ? it be right that we retain the threat of fine , but I gently point out to the right hon . Gentleman that we do not believe that any manufacturer will have to pay fine in the first year of the operation of the ZEV mandate . the trading window for credit be yet to close — it will close later this year — but our initial analysis suggest that no manufacturer will have to pay fine this year . Israel : Refusal of Entry for UK Parliamentarians over the weekend , two member of this House — my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) — on a parliamentary delegation to Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories be detain and refuse entry by the authority . they have both be grant entry clearance in advance of travel to Israel . on arrival in Tel Aviv at 2 . 30 pm local time , the two hon . member be hold in immigration for six hour . when I speak to they at 8 . 30 pm , they believe they be to be detain overnight without their mobile phone . while the situation be ongoing on Saturday night , the Foreign Secretary speak to his counterpart , the israeli Foreign Minister , and I speak with the Deputy Foreign Minister and the israeli ambassador . follow that intervention , both hon . member be release from detention , but their entry be still deny . Foreign Office official support the two mp and their staff at the airport as soon as they be alert to the situation . after a public statement at 10 pm from the israeli immigration authority , they be then fly back in the early hour of Sunday morning . it be my understanding that this be the first time a British MP have be bar from enter Israel . that decision appear to have be take on the basis of comment make in this Chamber . as the Foreign Secretary have make clear , and as I be sure almost every member of this House will agree , their treatment be unacceptable and deeply concern . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] it be no way to treat democratically elect representative of a close partner nation . we have make this clear at the high level in Israel . I pay tribute to the contribution that both member have make to this place since they be elect . I know that they both believe in a two - state solution . they have our support and solidarity . the Foreign Secretary and I speak to both mp while they be in Israel , and I meet with they early today . they have behave with great dignity . they be part of a delegation visit humanitarian project amid the appalling situation in Gaza and a dangerous and deteriorate situation in the occupy west bank . they be go to see for themselves what be take place in the occupy territory and to meet those directly affect by the shocking rise in settler violence . such visit be commonplace for mp from across this House and from all party . indeed , I be tell that more than 161 member of Parliament have conduct such visit . they enrich our knowledge and experience as legislator and representative . they create connection with country , political counterpart and civil society . indeed , I note that both Medical aid for Palestinians and the Council for arab - british Understanding have support visit involve member from all the main political party , include those on the Benches opposite . all member should therefore be worry by what this decision mean and the precedent it set . so our message to the israeli Government be not just that this be wrong , but that it be counterproductive . we have warn they that action like this only damage the image of the israeli Government in the eye of hon . member across the House . amid this unnecessary and unwelcome decision , the bloodshed continue in Gaza . the hostage be still hold by Hamas , essential aid be still block by Israel , and yet more innocent Palestinians be suffer . the killing of 15 paramedic and rescue worker in Rafah on 23 March be one of the deadly attack on humanitarian staff since the war begin . these death be an outrage , and we must see this incident investigate transparently and those responsible hold to account . our thought remain with the victim and their family . we will not go quiet in our call for the violence to stop or in our demand for humanitarian worker and civilian to be protect . we urge all party to return to ceasefire negotiation . it be clear that this conflict can be win not by bomb and bullet , but by diplomacy . a ceasefire be the only way we will bring the conflict to an end and return to negotiation for a last peace in the region . this be the only way we can end the needless loss of humanitarian worker strive to alleviate suffering , and it be the only pathway toward the two - state solution that we all want to see , where Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace and security . I know that hon . member across this House will continue to work towards that goal . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . it be important that we put this all within the context of Britain ' s relationship with Israel . Israel be a key security and defence partner for the United Kingdom , and it be the only democracy in the middle east . its security matter and help to keep we safe , include by deal with threat that undermine our interest . when the Conservatives be in government , we be able to have candid and honest conversation with the Government of Israel on all issue , because of the mutual trust and respect in our relation . it be only by maintain that trust and respect that Britain can bring influence to bear on issue that really matter for peace and security in the middle east and , indeed , for we too , include on the course of this terrible conflict and , ultimately , on find a sustainable end to the conflict , which be what we all want to see . that be more relevant than ever because of the current situation with the 59 hostage who be still be hold . it be not in Britain ' s interest , nor be it in the interest of peace in the region , if there be tense and difficult relation with Israel that would undermine our influence . the Minister will be aware of his own Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office advice on entry to Israel , but for the benefit of the House it state : " the israeli authority decide if you can enter Israel … some visitor may face long search and questioning , include those … who be consider to have publicly criticise the state of Israel " . do the Minister accept that british national visit Israel — a country that be at war — should be aware of those requirement and consider they carefully before make decision to travel , and that they therefore travel to Israel at their own risk ? I think it would also be helpful today to understand what the Minister consider to count as an official trip , and whether the fcdo be aware in advance of this trip . as mp — [ interruption . ] as member of Parliament , we do not have diplomatic immunity , so what would the fcdo do — this be really important — if mp be allow entry and then arrest ? [ interruption . ] moreover , who be the aide who accompany the delegation and also return to the UK ? [ interruption . ] order . we have to be able to hear the shadow Minister . I understand that emotion be high . we have to make sure that we temper the debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be important and right that we ask some question . will the Minister update the House on the UK Government ' s late engagement with key interlocutor on effort to find a way through the current , extremely difficult moment in the conflict ? [ interruption . ] there be chuntere from the Government Benches , but they will have the opportunity , I be sure , to ask the Minister question themselves . order . that be for the Chair to decide . please continue . as I have say before , Britain need to be a proactive player and help to drive thing to a well destination with practical solution . be any progress be make , include on the central issue of the hostage , who have be hold in such cruel captivity by Iranian - back Hamas terrorist since the atrocity of 7 October ? the return of the hostage to their love one by Hamas remain the key to a sustainable end to this awful conflict , and we have in our thought today , and every day , the brave family of the hostage , for whom this be an unimaginably painful time . on the death of the 15 emergency worker last month , have the Minister or the Foreign Secretary have official discussion with israeli counterpart in recent day on their investigation , and what do the Minister make of Israel ' s late assessment ? clearly , it be important in all conflict that there be the most effective deconfliction possible . as I say , we want to see a sustainable end to this conflict . on aid to Gaza , have the Minister seek to address israeli concern about diversion , which may help to unblock the current situation on access ? finally , we be yet to have a clear answer from the Government , despite repeat questioning , on how they envisage what remain of Hamas can be remove from power in Gaza , and what the UK ' s diplomatic contribution will be to bring that about . shame ! I have hope that the right hon . Lady might come to the Dispatch Box to withdraw the comment of the Leader of the opposition — comment that the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury be not prepared to support . I remain none the wiser from the comment of shadow Minister what the position of the conservative party be on the detention of british mp overnight , despite have clearance to enter , and their return . many conservative Members have be on such delegation ; I can see one of they in the Chamber . I be sure that the conservative party would have the full support of this House be the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , my neighbour the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , or indeed the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , who be also from Lincolnshire — all of whom have be on such delegation — to be treat in this way . the whole House would support they . these be not difficult question , and I be truly surprised by the answer . the right hon . Lady ask I further question , but the Leader of the Opposition do not take the opportunity to ask question before her Sunday round — not of the two mp concern , and not of the Foreign Office . she characterise their comment in this House as " Hamas propaganda . " she can make whatever political characterisation she like of Back - Bench mps , but she seem to imply that the reason for their removal be that they be not go to comply with israeli law . [ interruption . ] would you like I to read out her comment ? order . the word " you " be not appropriate . forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Leader of the opposition say on Sunday : " if you look at the reason the israeli Government have give for why they ' re not let they in — they don ' t believe they ' re go to comply with their law . " the reason for the denial , which the israeli Government give to the two mps in writing , be for the prevention of illegal immigration consideration . the Leader of the Opposition should apologise . I would like to start by thank the Foreign Secretary , the Minister for the Middle East , the british embassy in Tel Aviv and the british consulate for their continue support . it have be a challenging few day . what happen to I and my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) be unprecedented : we be deny entry base on our legitimate political opinion , which be firmly align with international law . we be not the only one speak about the atrocity , we be not the only one call for change , and we be not the only one say that the current action of the israeli Government must change . indeed , many israeli people and charity in Israel have also call for the israeli Government ' s action to change there be no direct route into the west bank , so we have to go through Israel . this act be not just a diplomatic affront . neither be it about security ; it be about control and censorship . no state , however powerful , should be beyond criticism . I desperately want to see a two - state solution ; I desperately want to see peace . I hope that the Minister will be able to work with his counterpart in Israel to prevent this denial of entry from happen again , so that we can continue to act in good faith to shed light on what be happen . I pay tribute to the dignity of my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central and for Earley and Woodley . I can assure my hon . friend that we will continue to work with the israeli Government , and all our partner across the region , towards a two - state solution . I welcome the strength of support from she and many other colleague in this House . to be clear on the position of the israeli Government : they do have the right to decide who enter their country , as indeed do we . on this occasion , the two Members of Parliament be give clearance to enter , so it be know to the israeli Government before they arrive at the airport that they would be travel . it be therefore with some surprise that I receive the call on Saturday evening . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for provide advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats wholeheartedly support his rebuke of the israeli Government for detain two hon . member of this House and deny their entry into the state of Israel . I be disappointed , however , that this House have not be able to speak with one voice on this matter . I be shock by the leader of the conservative party ' s comment yesterday morning , and I be deeply disappointed by the shadow Minister ' s comment today . the Liberal Democrats believe that member should be free to advocate without fear or favour on issue of national and global importance . we believe it be vital for parliamentarian to be able to see for themselves the reality of the situation we discuss in this Chamber . Israel ' s action be inconsistent with the behaviour we would expect from an ally and from a democracy , and it be regrettable that the leader of the Conservative party and the party spokesperson do not agree . transparency in the middle east be vital for secure a long - last political settlement , which must be base on openness and trust . have the Foreign Secretary since make clear to his counterpart in the israeli Government that such treatment of parliamentarian be unacceptable , and that no further parliamentarian will be treat in that way or deny entry into Israel ? will the Foreign Secretary also raise with his counterpart this morning ' s deeply disturbing report of palestinian detainee be subject to torture , and this weekend ' s report that the initial IDF account of the death of 15 aid worker at the hand of israeli force have be contradict by video footage from a victim ' s mobile phone ? I confirm to the hon . member that the israeli Government be in no doubt about our view on this incident , and that discussion continue . she reference a number of concern report that have emerge in recent day . I be in this House last Wednesday to discuss some of those in detail , as well as the wide position in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , and I be sure we will continue to have such discussion about what remain a deeply concern situation . I join my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) in her thank to the Minister and the Foreign Office . since arrive home yesterday I have be inundate with support from mps , hundred of whom have write to I personally to express their solidarity . that outpouring of support have come from all part of the House , and it have unite we as british parliamentarian who stand together against this unprecedented treatment of our fellow mp . since I come to this place , the war in Gaza and the violence on the west bank have remain one of the top issue that my constituent write to I about . resident have share with I their longing for peace , and it be on their behalf that I join the delegation . as a former journalist , I understand deeply the significance of bear witness , and I also understand the risk that that entail . many palestinian journalist have pay that price with their life . before go to the west bank I understand the risk of travel to a region where violence be all too common . I do not , however , anticipate the risk of detention and deportation from a british ally . now , as an MP , it be the honour of my life to bear witness on behalf of my constituent . my only regret be that I be not able to do so on this trip . so far in this Parliament the conflict in Gaza have be reference more than 1 , 000 time by british mp , and I have make five of those reference in this Chamber . if my experience have prove anything , it be that what we say in this Chamber matter , and I encourage other mp to continue speak on this issue . People around the world be listen to we . our voice be powerful , and we must continue to use it without fear or favour . what can the Minister do to ensure that future delegation go to the west bank , include those who be about to depart this weekend , can do so without have to censor their remark in Parliament ? my hon . friend be a dignified and doughty tribune in this place . I know that all member of this House will continue to speak without fear or favour from these Benches , and I would encourage they to do so . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) reference our travel advice , which set out some of the risk , and I encourage Members of Parliament who be consider visit and wish to discuss that with the Foreign Office to do so . this be obviously a deeply alarming development , come as it do off the back of propose financial penalty for foreign non - governmental organisation that be operational in the occupied Palestinian Territories , which also bear witness to what be go on there . will the Minister enlighten we about two thing ? first , it would be helpful for parliamentarian if , in his discussion with the israeli Government , he could ask they for a comprehensive list of MPs who will not be permit to travel to Israel from here on in , so that we get a sense of the scale of their objection to what we say in this House . secondly , will the Government still be entertain high - level military delegation from Israel on their premise ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s second point , we will keep such matter under review on a case - by - case basis . on the question of which mps be now welcome to travel to Israel , I will have to revert to this House . to our knowledge , this be the first ever such incident . colleague from across the House with a whole range of view on the conflict in Israel and Gaza have travel there , so we be dismay to see the weekend ' s event . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . as I look around the Chamber , I be proud to see so many member from all party who have come here to support our sister parliamentarian , but I be disappointed not to be able to include member of the Front Bench of his Majesty ' s Opposition in that . our fury at this insult to our Parliament and to our country be temper only by the fact that we must not forget why these young woman go to Israel : they want to bear witness to what be go on in east Jerusalem and on the west bank . they be go to meet generation of a family who be live in a supposedly temporary refugee camp , but who have be there for decade and be still wait on the promise of a palestinian state . they be there to see aid worker and charity whose organisation be at threat of 80 % tax , threaten their very existence and lifesave work . they might even have meet , as I do , a man who have be look in the eye by Antony Blinken and tell that his home be safe , yet we be stand in its rubble . what step will my hon . friend the Minister take on behalf of the Government to protect the right of mps not just to see the tragic reality of the west bank and east Jerusalem , but to call that out without reprisal ? I will update the House once we have have further discussion with the israeli Government on the question of mps ' travel , as I say in response to the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . I encourage all member of the House , whether they support the Government ' s position or not , to continue to speak in the House with the frankness and integrity that Members would expect . my sympathy be with my two colleague , the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , for what they experience over the weekend . however , we must remember that Israel be in a state of war against a terrorist enemy and it be — [ interruption . ] at different time , this country have refuse to admit elected politician — they have want to come to this country , but they have be refuse entry . it be Israel ' s right to refuse entry to people who choose to call for boycott or other element against the state of Israel . therefore , if colleague wish to visit Israel , they need to be clear about the Foreign Office advice . by the way , the travel insurance advice be that if people do not follow that Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice , they be not insure . I reiterate that nobody in the British Government be dispute the israeli ' s Government ' s right to decide who enter Israel — that be clearly their right to discharge as they see fit . what be particularly surprising about this incident be not just its novelty — it be the first time of which we be aware that mp have be stop — but that they have entry clearance already and they be permit to travel to the airport . I thank the Minister for his statement . if this be how the israeli Government treat the UK ' s elect representative , we can only imagine how they be treat the palestinian people . parliamentary delegation be how we in this House well understand the world and the issue that we debate . I return from my recent visit to the region as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee more committed than ever to work towards a last peace . travel to the west bank show at first hand the fear and violence experience by the Palestinians . meet with the israeli hostage , walk through Hostages Square and meet their family bring home their trauma and suffering . do the Minister agree with I about the importance of parliamentary delegation , and that action like such as this by the israeli Government undermine long - term effort for a last peace ? many member of this House have benefit from parliamentary delegation across the world . I agree with my hon . friend , who have take the effort to travel to many country that the Foreign Affairs Committee consider in its deliberation . they be very important , and I would like to see they continue . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this delegation be organise by the Council for arab - british understanding , and it be my enormous privilege to serve as the chair of that organisation . cabu have organise dozen of delegation of this sort over the year , and with the support of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , if it be necessary , we hope to continue to do so in the future . the attack on the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) be an attack on we all . I regret to say that that be why the position of the Opposition Front Benchers be so utterly regrettable . we know that Israel have close off Gaza in recent year ; if the treatment of the hon . member be anything to go by , it now look like it will do the same thing for the west bank . what will the Minister do to ensure that it be not allow to do that ? I hope to see parliamentary delegation from CABU and other continue . the Opposition spokesperson , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , also ask I about delegation . I take this opportunity to clarify that while my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central be a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , this be not a Foreign Affairs Committee delegation — no one on it have travel recently — nor be it a delegation from an all - party parliamentary group . however , it be a delegation — in line with many such delegation that have be support by CABU and many other organisation to ensure that parliamentarian can travel and see thing for themselves — and I hope that they continue . this whole House be and remain united in its condemnation of the horrific attack by Hamas on Israel on 7 October and their disgusting treatment of the hostage ever since , but many in this House have also be appal by the indiscriminate killing of ten of thousand of man , woman and child from the state of Palestine . ever since 7 October , their forced displacement and the blockade of aid on they have surely upset many member of this House . do the Minister agree that the treatment and the smearing of my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) — they be honourable , and I be proud to call they my friend — be part of a wide attempt to stop other , such as journalist , parliamentarian and the israeli people themselves , from see what be really go on in the occupy territory ? I agree with how my hon . friend describe my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley and for Sheffield Central . they be my friend too . they be a bureau chief for the Financial Times and a lawyer before come to this place . they be distinguish member of their community and distinguished member of this House . Israel have forgo the opportunity to engage with two of its trenchant critic . be this not a case of more fool it ? I agree . I agree with that length of question as well . this be an unprecedented situation , and I pay tribute to both my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) for the manner in which they have conduct themselves . I have visit Israel on many occasion , and I have have the opportunity to live there . while member of this House may have disagreement with the current israeli Government , do the Minister agree it be essential that we enable delegation to visit the region ? that be the only way that we listen , learn and be expose to a wide range of view and perspective . I agree . there be many friend of Israel in this House , many of whom be disappoint by the event of the weekend . I express my own solidarity and the solidarity of my party with the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , who be detain at the weekend . that be a completely unacceptable set of circumstance . while there can be no doubt about the fact that our colleague be deny entry into Israel because the israeli Government be terrify of what they would witness , in the last week Israel have intentionally target 15 UN medical worker , bury they in a mass grave , and confirm the indefinite expansion of illegal settlement in the occupy west bank . last week , the Minister tell this House that the Government take action when there be " a risk " that Israel be breach international law . do he consider that the targeting of UN aid worker and the confirmation that settlement in the west bank will be expand demonstrate a risk that international law be be violate by Israel , and will the Government end israeli impunity by condemn its indiscriminate attack and suspend all arm export ? we go through many of these issue in some detail last Wednesday , and I be sure that I will return to this House to do so again . my position remain as it be on Wednesday . I have stand opposite the spokesperson for the Opposition , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , many time and engage in the rough and tumble of political debate . it be not part of the rough and tumble of political debate to seek to justify the detention and deportation of fellow member of this House . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that the position take by Opposition Front Benchers pose a risk to all of we as parliamentarian ? my right hon . friend speak with force , and I condemn the position take by Opposition Front Benchers . we have just hear from a fairly trenchant advocate for free speech ; I think that be the position of the conservative party . like many colleague , I have visit Israel , the west bank and Gaza , facilitate by the israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority . I benefit greatly from those visit , and I hope that both the Palestinian Authority and the israeli Government will facilitate future visit by parliamentarian . however , do the Minister think it be wise for the Foreign Secretary , in his remark on X / Twitter , to try to conflate China and Israel ? the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , make an almost identical comparison shortly thereafter , so the right hon . Member may want to talk to his own party about that comparison . for 13 year before my election , I work as director of an organisation call we believe in Israel , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . part of my job be to lead study tour for british politician to visit Israel — incidentally , every single trip I lead also visit the west bank to hear palestinian perspective on the conflict . I commend my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) for want to visit the region and see the situation for themselves . we probably disagree on aspect of the conflict , but they be moderate voice who support a two - state solution , and it be outrageous that they be detain and not allow entry . do the Minister agree that it be vital for hon . member to visit Israel and the west bank and see the situation at first hand ; that do so help people to arrive at an informed , nuanced and balanced view ; and that anything that hinder this be to be deplore ? my hon . friend be well know for his friendship to Israel , and his remark have real force . I agree with they . it be my honour and privilege to serve on the Foreign Affairs Committee with the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , and I put on record my support for she and my outrage at her treatment . give that this be how the current israeli Government act towards their ally , disregard democratic and diplomatic norm , what step will the Government take to help ensure that Israel enter into negotiation with its enemy towards a last peace and a two - state solution ? we will continue to work with the israeli Government and all party in the region to try to ensure that there be a return to substantive talk , and a return to the ceasefire that will lead to the release of hostage and an end to this terrible conflict in the region . I listen to the Minister ' s statement in detail , but what specific action will this Government take against the israeli Government for do what they do to two of our colleague ? secondly , Madam Deputy Speaker , back in 2021 , Mr Speaker ban the chinese ambassador for ban member of the British Parliament from go to China . be the same go to happen to the israeli ambassador until these sanction be lift ? we consider the action of the israeli Government to be not just regrettable but counterproductive , for the reason that member on the Opposition Benches have state . it be so important — as many on the Labour Benches have say — that parliamentarian be able to visit , to engage , and ultimately to seek to persuade other . the action of the israeli Government be deeply regrettable and unacceptable , and we have make that clear to they at the very high level . I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for support the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , as well as any other Member attempt to make the same journey in order to acquaint themselves with the situation . could he bring we up to date on what be happen regard the supply of arm and weapon to Israel ? can he assure the House that the Government will suspend the sale of part that make up the F - 35 jet that be be use to bomb and strafe Gaza , kill so many people , and destroy school and hospital by target they ? will he also tell we exactly what RAF Akrotiri be be use for , and why there be so many flight from that base into Israel ? be it deliver weapon ? I have cover this ground recently , and it remain as it be . we take a principled position in relation to the suspension of certain arm licence in September , and that remain our position . we have discuss the position in relation to F - 35 part and the role of RAF Akrotiri on a number of other occasion . however , I be glad for the opportunity to correct something : when last the right hon . ask I a question , I refer to he simply as an hon . member . no offence be intend , and it be a mistake on my part . rise — order . a large number of colleague wish to contribute , so can question please be short ? I ask the Minister to ensure that his response be just as short . it be regrettable that the israeli Government be now act with impunity — they seem to be accountable to no international law . enable by the US President , they continue to bomb hospital and school , kill aid worker and thousand of palestinian civilian . today , break the silence report further execution , as well as the destruction of home by the Israel Defence Forces , and now this : ban member of our Parliament from enter . I put on record that I wholeheartedly disagree with what have be say by Opposition Front Benchers and the accusation make by they . my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) be our friend and our colleague , and they have more dignity and strength in their little finger than have be show by Opposition Front Benchers . my hon . friend speak with real force , and I agree with her condemnation of the Leader of the Opposition ' s comment . there be no question but that the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) — who be sadly no long in their place — have a difficult experience in Israel , and that be to be regret . however , we be hear today that that somehow make criticism of Israel impossible in this place , but as we have hear time and again , that be simply not the case . we can speak out in Parliament , and we can continue to do so . I do not think that anything I say indicate that I expect this House to be less critical in its position , so I be not sure that I accept the hon . Gentleman ' s question . it be our job in this House to speak out against what Hamas do , but also to speak out against Israel and what it be do . deny Members entry be a disgrace , and I be embarrassed by his Majesty ' s official opposition and the position they have take — they should be ashamed , and should reflect on what they have do . Krishnan Guru - Murthy ' s interview with the israeli ambassador on " Channel 4 News " clearly show that she be lie . do the Minister agree that the way in which our friend have be treat be a snub to the UK ? I stick by the characterisation in my statement . in solidarity , Green party mps share in the condemnation — which should be fully cross - party — of the israeli Government ' s shameful detention and deportation of our two Labour MP colleague . in the context of the widespread evidence of war crime , do the Minister agree that this demonstrate that international scrutiny of what be happen in Israel and Palestine be ever more important ? note that the Foreign Secretary and the Minister have condemn the action of the israeli Government , may I ask he which of the many action that I have previously challenge he to take , will he now take , to show that action speak louder than word ? how will he make our disapproval really clear ? conscious of time , I will not relitigate the many point that the hon . Member have raise with I in the past . I will simply say that I stand by the remark in the statement , and we have make our displeasure know . the detention and the deportation raise some serious question . what be Israel try to hide ? if Israel have not already cross a red line , what more do it need to do for this Government to take some action ? the alleged execution of the 15 humanitarian aid worker be bad enough . what be this Government go to do ? action do speak louder than word . this Government have take action . we have take action since the day we form the Government . I would be happy to rehearse those thing , whether it be the arm suspension , the restoration of funding to UNRWA or the numerous other action we have take , but conscious of time , I think I will save that for another day . I think we have see a good example of faux outrage in this House today , as member have condemn the israeli Government . would the Minister accept that , first of all , the israeli Government have every right to decide to whom they give entry and to whom they refuse entry ? will he remind some of his colleague that it be not so long ago that they be campaign to get the President of the United States exclude from this country ? I be not sure how many more time I need to say the position about Israel ' s right to control who enter its border , but I be happy to reiterate it one more time . I have debate for many year with member of the conservative party , and I have often disagree with they , but I have never before be ashamed of they . consider that Israel have for a long time now not be allow journalist into Palestine and the west bank , and now seem determined not to allow parliamentarian to go to that country to build link and to see for themselves what be go on , be this the point where we need to consider what action we take go forward ? should that action be about talk to Israel , or do it need to be something slightly strong ? as I say in answer to a previous question , we have take action since we become the Government . we will continue to talk to the israeli Government . they be , as many member have say , a partner and an ally , and we be surprised and distressed , and we oppose the treatment of our mps this weekend . for 15 year , I have find it impossible to say anything on the subject of Israel and Palestine without it be completely unsatisfactory to either side of the debate , but I have to say , have get to know the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) pretty well on the Treasury Committee , that I be profoundly concerned by the decision of the israeli Government to do what they do , although I respect the right that they have to do so . however , it be so counterproductive , because it be only when we fully express our view on all side of this debate that we can find some edification . that be a decent and honourable contribution , and I thank the right hon . member for it . colleague who be elect after 2024 may not know that in 2022 , 287 of us parliamentarian be ban from enter Russia over our view about the ukrainian crisis , include not just the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and I , but the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , the Leader of the Opposition . at that time , the House stand as one stand up to that intimidation . today , from the opposition , we get a dog whistle so loud — about our colleague , who do nothing wrong apart from want to go and see for themselves what be go on — that it could be hear on the moon . what a disgrace . do the Minister agree that this Government will always defend free speech and that defend free speech mean defend the ability of people to go and talk about thing that other may not want to talk about ? as I have say , these parliamentary delegation be very valuable , and I want to see they continue . many of we have raise serious concern about the action of the israeli Government , and reply have rarely go as far as most of we would want . I be deeply concerned that the state of Israel may be use this tactic to curtail Ministers from condemn Israel more strongly . what assurance can we have from the Minister that he will not be cow by what have happen to his colleague ? I will not be cow by what have happen to my colleague . I have visit the Occupied Palestinian Territories a number of time , include Gaza , in year go by . one of the purpose be to bear witness to what be happen on the ground . that be particularly important when aid worker , medic , journalist and civilian be be kill in large number . while I appreciate the Minister ' s support for our colleague , what will the Government do to ensure that in future member of this House can visit with impunity ? it be the right of the israeli Government to decide who visit . they can exercise that right as they see fit . I be sure they will hear from right across the whole House Members ’ desire to continue to visit , which continue to provide a valuable function . Israel and Britain have a long relationship , whether Parliament to Parliament , society to society or people to people , and I want that to continue . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I put on record my and my colleague ' solidarity with our friend , the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . what be the UK Government ' s precise red line that , when cross by Israel , will trigger a full arm embargo and comprehensive economic sanction against Israel ? furthermore , when will the Government publicly articulate and enforce those red line to ensure accountability and to uphold international law ? I have talk about the importance of international humanitarian law , as have the Foreign Secretary and many other Ministers of this Government , at this Dispatch Box , at some length . conscious of time , I refer the hon . member to my answer last Wednesday . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for all the help he give to my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) over the weekend . the british jewish organisation Yachad have suggest that this occurrence of detention be symptomatic of an attempt to silence criticism within Israel and outside . be my hon . friend sympathetic to that view and , if he be , be a business - as - usual diplomatic relationship with this current israeli Government still possible ? my hon . friend , who be so committed to these issue , have be discuss they with I and other for many year . he be right to highlight the important work of Yachad , which have also provide delegation to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . I refer he to my previous response in the statement . I be on one of those delegation that the Minister have just speak about , and unlike my friend on the Government Benches , we be able to visit the area without a problem from the israeli Government . however , we do have an incident with israeli settler . be the Minister concern , and what will he do about this slide from what be suppose to be a democratic country , undermine the rule of law and stop british politician from see what be happen in the occupy territory ? I know that my neighbour , the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , have also be on such a delegation . like the hon . member , he report an incident with settler . I refer the House to my previous statement about the expansion of settler violence and illegal settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . the power of bear witness , as my hon . friend be attempt to do , be show at its most extreme in recent day by the paramedic Refat Radwan , who film the recent attack on 15 aid worker by the IDF before lose his own life . do the Minister agree that in this case there must be accountability and not a cover - up ? I do believe that wherever there be incident against humanitarian worker , include the one that my hon . friend mention , there must be full accountability . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . these discussion be sometimes very polarised , but let I say now that this be not just an affront to the House and every member in it and not just an affront to the Government , but an affront to the british public who put we here . thousand of british citizen travel to Israel to make their way to the third holy site , Masjid Al - Aqsa , and hundred have be refuse entry on arrival . what reassurance can the Minister give they when our own mps seem not to be able to get there ? the Foreign Office and the embassy in Tel Aviv , and the consulate in Jerusalem , will give support to all british national seek to travel . they support our colleague on Saturday night , and in recent week they have support british pilgrim in an incident similar to the one that the hon . Gentleman have describe . they will continue to provide that support . I know that the Leader of the opposition be not here , but I would say to she gently that she should agree with the whole House and recognise that her comment may inflame the situation , and that they be not just wrong but counterproductive in respect of the work that the Government be do . I commend Opposition Members who have speak truth to power , and I express my solidarity with our two colleague as well . their treatment be very concerning , and the fact be that this a worrying trend : we have see aid worker be deny access , and we have see vital journalist be deny access . we know that atrocity be often commit in darkness , when people have something to hide . do the Minister agree that the israeli Government must stop shut themselves off from the eye of the world ? I have already speak about the importance of parliamentary delegation , and I hope that they continue . I hope , too , that the free press of Israel — and , indeed , the whole international press — be able to operate within the occupy Palestinian Territories . I have be deeply sadden and concerned to see that so many journalist have be kill in Gaza . as for the comment of the Leader of the Opposition , I should say to the House that I do inform her office that I intend to make some observation , so I be disappointed not to see she today to answer for they . I thank the Minister for his statement . as a general principle parliamentarian should be entitle to travel , but there be an understanding that sovereign nation across the globe have the right to decide who can enter . I personally be bar from China and Russia , as be other member , but I have not hear anyone speak about that . do the Minister not agree that sovereign nation have a right to prevent entry if they believe that it would have an adverse impact , and that we , as our own nation , should support the right of other nation to make their own rule for what they believe to be for their benefit ? each nation should have that sovereign right . I do indeed accept , as do the British Government , that every Government have the right to control who come in . More fool Russia and Belarus for take the position that they have take in relation to the hon . member . do the Minister agree that the counterproductive and concern action of the israeli Government in this regard , and the contemptible response from the Opposition Front Bench , have one thing in common , namely that neither will command the support of the british people ? I do agree . the public expect that their mps will go and see for themselves . this be an important delegation , and I be sure that the constituent of my two colleague would have welcome the fact that they be take the time and make the effort to try to ensure that they have the well possible understanding of a situation about which I know so many constituent feel so strongly . I have have the privilege of visit the occupy Palestinian Territories with two delegation , one with the Council for arab - british Understanding and medical aid for Palestinians and the other with Yachad . during those visit we meet people work in school , hospital and clinic , we see the operation of the israeli military court , we meet Palestinians whose village have recently be destroy by settler , and , during the last visit , we meet Israelis who have lose love one on 7 October . such visit enrich our understanding . they ensure that our debate in this place be inform not only by what we think we know , but by live experience — by have look in the eye people whose day - to - day reality consist of the issue that we discuss in this place . can the Minister assure the House that he will continue to seek a commitment from the israeli Government that such delegation will not be prevent in the future ? I hope that such delegation will continue in the future , and I will talk to the israeli Government to that effect . may I put on record my thank to the Minister and the Foreign Secretary for their support for our two colleague , who , since their election , have speak so bravely about many issue , include what be happen in Palestine ? may I also remind the House that Israel be an occupy power , occupy Gaza as well as the west bank ? over the past year the Israelis have consistently not allow people into Gaza , and we know now what they have be do to it and to the west bank . it seem that what Israel really want to do be hide its atrocity . the british Government do consider the west bank and the Gaza strip to be occupy palestinian Territories . the israeli Government ' s justification for this action seem to have be the statement that my hon . friend make in the House against their policy . on that basis , they detain , deny entry to and expel two elect member of the Parliament of their democratic ally on legitimate parliamentary business . let I repeat the question that I ask my hon . friend on 20 March . I know that these matter be complex , but can he tell I at what point we change our posture towards the israeli Government ? I be sure that we will have an opportunity to discuss event in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories in further detail . I thank my hon . friend for his dedication and commitment to these issue , and I do not doubt that we will have further discussion in the Chamber in due course . my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) have bear their detention and repatriation with great fortitude , courage , dignity and , indeed , grace , which make the attack on they from the Opposition Front Bench all the more disgraceful . it be an attack on all of we . their detention occur at the same time as it come to light that Israel ' s version of the terrible killing of 15 aid worker be not true . do the Minister agree that lie about action in occupy territory , prevent the entry of humanitarian aid and journalist and bar british parliamentarian undermine Israel ' s claim to be an open and transparent democracy ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s characterisation of the grace and dignity with which the two member have comport themselves over what have be a try 24 hour , and I be sure we will discuss the other matter that she have raise in due course . Israel be suppose to be an ally of ours . do the Minister agree that its treatment of our hon . friend be not only an affront but a further indication of the israeli Government ' s desire to show no transparency in respect of their action , and not to respect human right ? Israel remain an open society with a vibrant press , who be report on this incident as it happen . I hope that this prove to be an aberration , and that member of this House will be able to go back to travel to Israel with no thought of detention or be return . for I , the most important aspect of our country be not our flag or even our institution , but our people , and our people — the elect representative of thousand of british people — have be treat with contempt . my understanding be that we be Britain and you do not do this to we . there be , at least , consensus on this side of the House that this be not how we should expect to be treat by our ally . while I welcome the Minister ' s statement , I still can not understand where our red line be when thousand be slaughter , when aid be prevent from enter Gaza , or when international law or the ceasefire be break . can he explain where those red line be , and how , when Britain and Parliament have be insult , we can continue to sell arm to Israel ? I have talk about the position relate to arm sale , and I will not rehearse the argument that be hear in the Chamber so recently . I agree with my hon . friend that we all represent community across the United Kingdom . I believe that in travel to Israel those two hon . member be try to reflect the earnest concern of their constituent , and I encourage all hon . member , whenever they be able to do so , to travel to the place where their constituent can not . I thank the Minister for his statement . I join he and most fellow member — sadly , not all of they — in fully support my two hon . friend over the shocking treatment that they have face . do the Minister agree that such an utterly disproportionate and counterproductive decision by the israeli authority , at a time when the situation in the middle east be already deteriorate so badly , can only do damage to the israeli Government ' s reputation here and in the wide world ? as I have say , I think the decision be counterproductive . I rise in solidarity with the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) — two sister of this House — and I be disgust by their treatment at the hand of the state of Israel . however , all too many of my constituent have suffer similar treatment when they have try to visit Al - Aqsa in Jerusalem and other holy site around the country . Mr Tassadaq Hussain and Suhan Hoque have recently be deny entry . what will the Minister do to make sure that british passport - carry citizen be not deny entry to Israel ? it be for Israel to decide whom it grant entry to , but any british national travel overseas , regardless of their faith , can expect consular assistance from the Foreign Office . I thank the Minister for his statement . I applaud the dignity with which my hon . friend have respond , and the solidarity from many member of different party . I commend the statement make by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who speak so powerfully about the importance and impact of parliamentary delegation . do the Minister agree that democracy be weaken if parliamentarian can not undertake such visit and duty at a time when the need for scrutiny have never be great ? I agree that parliamentary delegation be important . the detention and deportation of my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) by the state of Israel be disgraceful , and it smack of racism — we can not ignore the fact that they be woman of colour . they be visit not Israel , but the occupied Palestinian Territories . let we remind ourselves that the International Court of Justice recently find that Israel ' s treatment of Palestinians constitute " systemic discrimination " on the basis of " race , religion or ethnic origin . " the fact be that white hon . member on recent delegation who have make similar comment about the conflict be not treat this way . will the Minister summon the israeli ambassador over this issue , and over what it now seem be the execution of 15 PRCS paramedic and those who go to rescue they in Gaza ? I have tell the House the state basis that my two hon . friend be give for their refusal , and I will not pass further comment on what might or might not be behind that . as I say , the write reason be the prevention of illegal immigration consideration , as unlikely as that may seem to those in this Chamber . on the deeply concern report about further death of humanitarian worker , this Government have express on a number of occasion our condemnation of the lack of a deconfliction mechanism to ensure the safety of humanitarian worker who conduct essential work . I echo the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , and I find it deeply troubling that the only member who be detain and deport at the weekend be not white . will the Minister express in the strong term his concern about these event in any future Government discussion on peace and trade ? I be conscious of the time . we have express our concern about this incident in the way that I describe , and I expect to have further discussion with member of the israeli Government to that effect . I travel to the west bank in November , and I hear from UN agency and non - governmental organisation about their international staff be deny entry , restrict their aid effort . that be alarming enough , but the appalling treatment of our brilliant colleague be a new low , as it seem that it be not just the support to Palestinians that be be deny , but the right to scrutinise whether that support be get through . do the Minister agree that future access to the Occupied Palestinian Territories for aid and scrutiny must be protect ? I have speak already about the importance of the free press , safe travel for journalist and , indeed , parliamentary delegation . I thank my hon . friend for his strong statement in defence of parliamentary democracy . do he agree that transparency and accessibility be key to parliamentary democracy , and that obstruct the visit of two elect representative of an allied nation can only raise troubling question about the current health of israeli democracy ? as I have say , one of the appeal element of israeli democracy be its free press and vibrant debate , and I know that many member of this House have benefit from vibrant exchange with their counterpart in Israel , as they have say already . I regret that that have not be the case this weekend . the response of this House to what happen to our colleague at the weekend should be unite , because it affect we all . do the Minister agree that any equivocation from member of this House risk send a green light to other country that wish to interfere in our activity and parliamentary delegation ? perhaps the Leader of the Opposition and those on the Opposition Front Bench could give that long and hard consideration . as I have say , the opposition should give this issue long and hard consideration . it should not be a complex question for this House , give the circumstance of event this weekend . have this be the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) or for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , I would have stand in support of they , as I be sure many colleague would have do too , because this issue affect we all . I therefore find the Leader of the Opposition ' s comment extraordinary . we must not forget that my two hon . friend be grant visa to enter the country by an ally . do my hon . friend agree that this be a showcase event that be design to intimidate , threaten and silence this place ? to be clear , they be grant entry clearance , rather than a visa . the distinction may seem academic to this House , give that both would have permit my hon . friend to travel to the airport . clearly , it be not a surprise to the israeli authority that they arrive . I share the anger of most member of this House . it be completely unacceptable that two member of this House be deny entry to the occupy territory in the west bank by the israeli authority . do the Minister agree that more than ever , now be the time to be unite and show solidarity across the House with our parliamentarian , whose only mistake be to do their job by represent their constituent without fear or favour in this House and hold Israel accountable for its action ? I can confirm that I would like to see unity across the House on such matter , and that any parliamentarian , of any political party , would enjoy the support of the Foreign Office under such circumstance . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be currently not in their place . they be the kind and most thoughtful people I know , and the fact that the Leader of the Opposition have try to damage their reputation be disgraceful . I urge the Minister to continue to have conversation with the israeli ambassador to the UK . what additional dialogue be he have with international partner to ensure that there be access to aid for Palestine ? my hon . friend speak about our colleague with real warmth , which I know be feel right across the House . that have be refer to not just by those on the Government Benches , but by those on the Opposition Benches , and I be grateful . I can assure my hon . friend that I will continue those discussion . I associate myself with the comment make about my hon . friend . do the Minister share my horror , outrage and anger at the killing of 15 paramedic in Gaza , and can he assure I that we be do everything we possibly can to demand that all those responsible be hold to account ? accountability be vital , and I be indeed outrage by the report . the detainment of two hon . member of this House be shocking , and the killing of 15 palestinian paramedic in Gaza by the IDF be deeply distressing . at a time like this , it feel as though peace be far away than ever , so can the Minister set out what more we can do to make sure we get back in place the ceasefire we so badly need ? we will continue to work with the israeli Government and all relevant partner in the region to see the ceasefire restore , which be vital not simply to the Palestinians and the Israelis , but to all in the region . what have happen to our two amazing colleague — my hon . friend — be appal , but it be part of a pattern of behaviour from Israel of disdain for diplomatic relation with ally , disdain for democratic norm and disdain for human life . do my hon . friend agree that this pattern be worry , and will he correspondingly toughen the UK ' s diplomatic posture so that my constituent feel secure that our Government be stand up for their value ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for his commitment to these issue even before he be a Member of this place . this incident over the weekend be novel . it be the first time we be aware of that mps have be refuse entry in this way . we be make clear our view about that to the israeli Government in the way that I have set out . on the other issue , I hope that my hon . friend can reassure his constituent that we have take action since become the Government , whether with the suspension of arm , in multilateral forum or with the restoration of aid to Gaza . can I put on the record my comment about our two hon . friend , alongside those of everyone else in the House , apart from the Conservative Front - Bencher , who I do not think say any word about they in her commentary ? we be rightly talk about our two hon . friend , but this incident shine a much wide light not just on our right as parliamentarian , but on the right of journalist , charity worker and other to enter Israel and the west bank . we have talk a lot about their being refuse entry to Israel , but this be actually about their entry in order to gain access to the west bank through their only entry point into it . what more can the Minister do to ensure that the learning , the sharing and the visit to the west bank will continue if the israeli Government be embark on a system of shut people out ? do the Minister agree that this whole debacle — the whole sham we have see in the last few day — have be a distraction from and make much hard the real job we need to do , which be to take on the crime of Hamas , get the hostage out , get a ceasefire do and speak up for the innocent Palestinians who be suffer day by day because of the action not be take by the israeli Government ? my hon . friend speak forcefully about the importance of focus on the hostage , the restriction on aid and the death of innocent civilian on both side of this conflict . as I have say a number of time this afternoon , I do want parliamentary delegation to continue to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , include the west bank , and I hope this incident will prove to be an aberration . I thank the Minister for his statement . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at Prime Minister ' s question last week , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) raise the difficult ongoing issue , which my constituent and I have be involve in for a number of year , of Northumbrian Water dumping sewage into the North sea at Whitburn . please can you offer I some advice , as I believe it be still a convention and courtesy of this House that the right hon . member should at least have inform I he be go to wade into this matter ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . can she confirm that she have notify the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) of her intention to raise this matter in the House ? indicate assent . while member should certainly inform colleague when they intend to table a question about a matter relate to a colleague ' s constituency , the same rule do not apply to supplementary question at pmq . the leader of the Liberal Democrats be make a broad point about the ownership of Thames Water . none the less , the hon . Member have put the matter on the record , include her own campaigning on sewage dumping at Whitburn . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 28 March , I share on social medium the work that I and colleague from across the two Houses have be do to urge the Government of Pakistan to build an international airport at Mirpur . this be an important issue for over 1 million british Kashmiris , who overwhelmingly come from there , and who face delay and danger while travel from Islamabad to Mirpur . the reaction to that post , include from some member of the House , have result in our be subject to Islamophobic , racist attack and harassment . the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) and for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , all of whom — order . the hon . member should not be criticise other member for their social medium post in that way . I thank he for give notice of his point of order , which may have go slightly far than the notice he give , but he have eloquently put his concern on record . Road Maintenance I beg to move , that this House have consider road maintenance . for too long , Britain have be plague by pothole . too many people in too many part of the country have have their everyday journey turn into frustrating obstacle course by our pockmark road . it be bad than that , however , because cratered road can be dangerous , can make our trip long and more stressful , and can consume the hard - earn cash of ordinary family . with the average vehicle repair cost a staggering £ 600 , it be little wonder that the AA tell we that this issue be a priority for 96 % of driver . it be not just motorist who be suffer ; damage road cause problem for cyclist , motorcyclist and pedestrian , and dodgy pavement be infuriate for those push a pram or use a wheelchair . my right hon . friend remind I of the road on which I live , where driver try to avoid a pothole in the road go on to the pavement , which lead to the pavement be damage . do she agree that fix pothole quickly will save pavement as well ? my hon . friend describe a win - win situation . at my constituency surgery on Friday , my constituent Helen come to see I because she have have a terrible fall on a badly maintain pavement , and she have really be struggle to find out who be responsible for maintain the pavement . do anything in the funding bring forward by this Government enable quick and easy repair to pavement , so that people like Helen do not have terrible accident ? local authority be free to use the money as they see fit , as long as they be use it in a way that represent value for money for the taxpayer . the money can be use for work on road , pavement or structure . on the issue of responsibility raise by my hon . friend ' s constituent , that will be for the local highway authority . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . I think I would get in before she get back into her stride . can she throw some light on an issue that have puzzle I for some time in my New Forest East constituency ? a stretch of road — Southampton Road — be often use as a short cut by very heavy good vehicle , rather than use the appropriate section of the M27 motorway . these be often very large petrol bowser , tanker — you name it — and surprise , surprise , the roadway be constantly get break up and pothole appear , with all the consequence she describe . whenever we have raise this with any of the company to which these heavy vehicle belong , they say , " well , it ' s a public highway , and we ' re entitle to drive these vehicle where we want . " be there any obligation on company not to do that ? I do not know whether the right hon . Gentleman have raise the matter with the local highway authority . I believe there may be the ability to apply a weight restriction on road or to curtail the movement of large heavy good vehicle . that might be something he wish to raise with the appropriate authority . I be describe the frustrating state of our road and pavement . most importantly , the country ' s broken road have become , sadly , a symbol of the national decline preside over by the previous Government . our road have compound the feeling that nothing work in this country . they tell a story of a country leave in a woeful state of disrepair after 14 long year of the previous Government . road be the backbone of our transport system ; they be the concrete artery of our local and regional economy . yet too often they fall way short of the standard we should expect in the 21st century . that be why this government be take decisive action to deliver the renewal of our road . Madam Deputy Speaker , you might not be aware that there be such a thing as the RAC pothole index . it show that something like four out of 10 incident of damage to car happen as a result of pothole . the owner of vehicle be pay road tax and fuel duty , but they do not have the road infrastructure to support they . I welcome the Government ' s support for fill pothole , but can we ensure that the motorist be look after under this government ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . that be why we have plough a record £ 1 . 6 billion into road maintenance , include a £ 500 million uplift on last year . that be on top of the £ 200 million or so we be put in the hand of local leader in the big city region , empower mayoral combine authority to mend the road in their community . I thank my right hon . friend for give way . I want to raise a question that I be often ask . we have speak about quick fix . the problem be that we fix a few pothole , but the disrepair reappear . do she agree that we should focus on resurface our road ? my hon . friend be completely right . in some case , preventive comprehensive road resurfacing will be the appropriate action to take . in total , we be invest around £ 1 . 8 billion in fix our local road this year . I thank my right hon . friend for give way and for the record investment of this Labour Government in fix pothole . I particularly welcome the £ 21 million for East Sussex to fix our road . do she share my frustration at the fact that Conservative - run East Sussex county council have tell I that it will have a low highway budget this year than last year , even with that record injection from the Labour Government ? we need to track how it be spend that money . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to make council publish report on how the extra pothole money be spend . I hope it will include a geographical breakdown , so I can make sure that Hastings , Rye and the village be get their fair share . we be ask local authority to publish a report on their website by June this year . we be tip more money into highway maintenance and it be absolutely right that people should see visible result on their road . and it be right that my hon . friend be hold her local conservative council to account . our investment in highway maintenance be not a sticking - plaster solution ; it be a vital investment that could see council fix an extra 7 million pothole next year . that be just the beginning . as I say , for the first time we have ask council to prove that they be use their funding wisely . by June , they will be ask — as I have just say — to report on how many pothole they have fill and provide an update on the condition of their road . if we be not satisfied that they be deliver value for money , council risk lose up to a quarter of their funding uplift . Surrey have 70 , 000 pothole — 5 % of all the nation ' s pothole and the most in the country — so I welcome the extra money for pothole , but give the recklessness of the Conservatives in Surrey , how will that help my constituent ? the wide transparency and accountability measure we have announce , whereby we be withhold a quarter of the funding uplift until such time as the local authority have demonstrate how it be use that money , will hopefully be of assistance to both the hon . Lady and her constituent . it be only right that taxpayer can see how their money be be spend . this new era of accountability and transparency will see their cash be put to good use , and road user will see the result . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will just make a little bit of progress . I will give way to the hon . Gentleman later . the Government will end decade of decay on our road . we will lift the lid on how taxpayer ' money get spend . we think that be a crucial part of the solution . I be pleased that this move have be positively receive , with the RAC , National Highways , Logistics UK and so many more come out in support . in fact , Edmund King , president of the AA , describe it as " a … concert attack on the plague of pothole " . Madam Deputy Speaker , I could not have put it well myself . it be great to see council broadly welcome our approach , too . as Councillor Adam Hug , transport spokesperson for the Local Government Association , put it : " it ' s in everyone ' s interest to ensure that public money be well spend . " from one Adam to another . when I be a child , my late grandmother use to say that you could always tell a drunk person in Harare , because they drive in a straight line . one of my constituent say to I recently that , " in the United Kingdom , we be mean to drive on the left - hand side of the road , but in Newcastle - under - Lyme many people drive on what ' s leave of the road . " [ Laughter . ] they be very wise people in north Staffordshire , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State be make an excellent speech . what would her two message be , first to the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme as we approach Thursday 1 May , and secondly , to the current conservative leadership of Staffordshire county council ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend ' s constituent on an excellent sense of humour and perceptiveness in describe the state of the road in their community . I would say simply to his local authority that it have no excuse . it have the money — get on and fix it . as much as we want to see council go full steam ahead on road repair , I also know that roadwork can be disruptive . we have all feel the frustration of be stick at temporary traffic light or by the sound of a pneumatic drill on a Sunday morning . that be why we be clamp down on company that fail to comply with the rule by double a range of fix - penalty notice , with the bad offence now face £ 1 , 000 fine . plus , we be extend charge for street work that run into the weekend . this be not about patch up the problem , either . we want to see repair that be make to last , so we do not see the same bit of road be dig up over and over again . that mean get it right first time around , champion the good material and technique , ensure contractor be properly manage , and embrace the innovation and new technology that will help we to get the job do while get proper bang for our buck . it would be churlish of anybody in this Chamber not to welcome all the money the right hon . Lady say she will spend on road . it be welcome . I understand there be new technology for a well and more modern way of fix pothole . I understand it do the job well and be cheap . if that be the case , I meet a manager in my constituency last Friday who tell I he would be very interested in that scheme but he do not know about it . will the Secretary of State share this new way of fix pothole ? if so , everybody in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland could benefit from it . we be run a number of Live Labs project to look at how we can well make use of AI and new technology to ensure we get good value for money in deliver road maintenance . over the next year , we will be work with the UK Roads Leadership Group to update the code of practice on well - maintain highway . I would be happy to speak to the hon . Gentleman far about what have be learn . the important work that we be do will help to set clear expectation for local authority up and down the country , mean clean , green and well road deliver with the need of local people in mind . Laurence , Eileen and the resident of St Quivox have be campaign for 10 year to cut the speed on the b743 in my constituency . at this weekend ' s public meeting , 45 people be delighted to hear that Sergeant Slaven of Police Scotland and South Ayrshire council ' s director Kevin Braidwood support their campaign to cut the speed on this dangerous road , which have see almost 30 accident in the past decade . do my right hon . friend agree that the Ayrshire Roads Alliance and South Ayrshire council need to urgently reduce the speed limit on this road and work with resident to introduce other traffic calm measure ? decision on the appropriate speed limit on their road be decision for local highway authority . I will not pretend to know the detail of what my hon . friend be talk about , but I will say that safety be an absolute priority for this Government , and that any local highway authority should be take appropriate decision to limit the number of people be injure on our road and , ideally , to eradicate death and serious injury . this government ' s ambition for road user stretch far beyond local road . just last week , we announce £ 4 . 8 billion for National Highways to deliver critical road scheme alongside maintain motorway and major a road . with this bold investment , which be high than the average annual funding from the last multi - year settlement , we can get on with vital scheme in construction , such as the A57 Greater Manchester link road , the A428 Black Cat scheme in Cambridgeshire , the A47 Thickthorn scheme near Norwich , unlock 3 , 000 new home — hear , hear . I hear appreciation from the hon . gentleman on the Opposition Front Bench . those work will also include the M3 junction 9 scheme in Hampshire , which will support 2 , 000 more home . by raise living standard , create high - quality job and kick - start economic growth , these project will drive this Government ' s plan for change . we be committed to deliver the road infrastructure that this country need today , tomorrow and far into the future , and we be already work on the next multi - year road investment strategy to do just that . this be part of our mission to secure the future of Britain ' s infrastructure . we be build well road , create safe street and unlock more efficient transport system to help business to thrive and make life easy for all . when the right hon . Lady leave South Swindon and go into Wiltshire , she will be pleased to note that the £ 20 . 7 million the Government have give to Wiltshire have be add to with £ 22 million put aside by Wiltshire council to maximise the impact . could she say something about the connectivity between Bristol and Southampton ? I be grateful for the meeting with her colleague , the Minister for future of Roads , but do the Secretary of State recognise that now the a303 scheme be not happen , we need great investment on north - south connectivity in Wiltshire ? I be aware that the right hon . Gentleman meet with my hon . friend , the Minister for future of Roads , and I understand that as a follow - up to that meeting , National Highways be look into the very issue that he describe . on the point of road safety , after the previous Conservative Government singularly fail to dual the A1 in my constituency , attention must now turn to the safety of that road . will the Secretary of State and the Roads Minister join I in my constituency to hear the conversation I have be have with National Highways about how we can improve the A1 ? I know that the Minister for Future of Roads would be very happy to visit my hon . friend in his constituency . while we can not reopen the decision on dualle the A1 , we be happy to look at whether small - scale scheme could address specific issue around safety and congestion on that very important road . the public be tired of see road leave to deteriorate with no accountability for how maintenance money be spend . this government be lay the foundation for change , and this be just the beginning . there be so much more to do as we restore our transport system so that people across the country can fulfil their potential in a Britain where everyday journey be smoother and safe , family be not shell out for expensive and unexpected repair , and hard - work people have more money in their pocket — a Britain not define by disrepair and disarray , but where improved infrastructure become a symbol of our national renewal . improve connectivity will unlock job , growth and opportunity across the country . by fix our road , build well infrastructure and ensure that transport work for all , this Government be secure Britain ' s future . it be a pleasure to follow the Secretary of State . each year , the Liberal Democrats and their friend travel about 800 billion km , while those of we on the conservative Benches travel about 500 billion mile , and 90 % of that be by road . road be the backbone of our transport network ; they deliver good , service and , importantly , people . they deliver economic growth and human flourishing — worker to their job , student to their school , patient to their hospital — and bring family together . it be absolutely right , therefore , that good road deliver a strong economy and a strong society — I think we can all unite around that . the road network be divide between the national infrastructure and local road . since local road make up 97 . 3 % of the network as a whole — nearly 204 , 000 mile — I think it be good that I start there , because local road be at the heart of the problem of pothole . legal responsibility for maintenance of those road lie with the local authority , but it be too easy for we to blame local authority and move on , because their funding come from central Government . the previous Government feel a degree of frustration , which I know be now share by this Government , that while some local authority be well than other at clear up pothole , it be the Government — of whatever colour — who tend to get the blame . the Prime Minister have take a view on this issue — he seem to be frustrate as well . last month , we have the announcement that local authority be require to publish report on how many pothole they have repair . that be not a novel undertaking ; they be , as I recall , require to do exactly that back in 2013 or 2014 . the risk now be that if they have not repair a sufficient number of pothole , local authority risk lose 25 % of their increase grant . do the hon . Gentleman agree that adopt a policy of manage decline , as the Conservatives do in Oxfordshire in 2014 , be a disaster , and be really not the appropriate way to fix the problem we have in front of we ? I would absolutely agree that manage decline be not the right way to fix these problem , but I refute the accusation that the Conservative Government manage decline — [ interruption . ] well , let we look at the datum . the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) make reference to the RAC pothole index , which be a very useful piece of information that track how much more likely a driver be to suffer a breakdown as a result of a pothole . this data go back to 2006 , when Labour be in power . you may not be wholly surprised , Madam Deputy Speaker , to learn that under the previous Labour Government , a driver be more than twice as likely to suffer a breakdown as a result of a pothole than under the subsequent Conservative Government , correct for seasonal weather effect and improve long - term vehicle reliability . those on the Government Benches say that the Conservative Government manage decline , but , in fact , exactly the opposite be true . breakdown cause by pothole peak under Labour in 2009 , and have more than halve as a result of the investment of the coalition and conservative Governments . Birmingham city council , which be the large council in Europe , cover some of the vast number of road and arterial route come in and out of the city with Spaghetti junction . Labour have control the council for around a decade , and road be simply go from bad to bad . part of the problem be the desensitisation of the resident , who feel there be just no point complain about a pothole — officer come out but do not repair they . what mechanism need to be put in place so that we can address the pothole that exist and be get bad ? the good mechanism would be to vote for a conservative local authority on 1 May . if we look at the datum rather than the slogans , 68 mile of road on average be repair each year under conservative council , while just 14 mile be repair under Labour council . I say it again : if people want pothole fix , they should vote Conservative on 1 May . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for give way . I get on with he relatively well — [ interruption . ] very well , I should say , though we will get on even well if he agree with my point . he have just say that people should vote Conservative because of the success to which he have just refer . what would he say to my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme who have a Tory borough council and county council — and have do for several year — who describe our road as " deeply sunken " and " physically uncomfortable to drive over " , and say that they have " crumble surface " , " fail resurfacing work " and " repair that don ' t last " and " worsen condition despite recent repair " . several constituent have note that " only a few pothole " be ever patch and " hazardous condition from multiple direction " — order . intervention be get far too long . there be a very long list of speaker wish to contribute to this evening ' s debate , so intervention should be short and pithy . I have hope the hon . Gentleman and I get on well than that , but I be grateful for the question . everyone in this Chamber can point at pothole and say that more need to be do , and we would all be correct . we have far too many pothole , and we need to build , repair and improve our network over time . I accept that it will not just be by vote conservative that we reduce pothole overall . there be a question of prioritisation of funding , and that apply under both Labour and the Conservatives . how funding be provide be also important . the overall amount of funding for the repair of pothole be obviously crucial , but how it be provide in the long term be essential for local authority to schedule their repair . long - term funding would increase their efficiency . it would not be the stop - start feast or famine that we hear so much about at the moment . local authority could also increase the number of pothole be repair for the amount of money spend . it be for exactly this reason that the last Conservative Government commit to a 10 - year £ 8 . 3 billion investment for the repair of pothole . that long - term approach make an enormous difference . the RAC welcome the news and say that the plan would " give council certainty of funding " , allow they to " plan proper long - term maintenance " . the Asphalt Industry Alliance — I be sure you read about they often , Madam Deputy Speaker — say that there be a consensus among local authority that " guarantee long - term funding help increase efficiency and provide a more resilient road network " . it say that " security of funding help authority to plan with more confidence and drive great cost and environmental efficiency through the promotion of proactive asset management technique . " the point be that long - term , predictable funding increase the number of repair undertake and reduce the cost we have to pay for it . the hon . Member have mention a couple of figure , include one from 2006 , when I be nine . to quote a more recent figure from the annual local authority road maintenance 2025 report , when the Conservatives leave office they leave we with a backlog of £ 16 . 8 billion - worth of pothole repair . what do he say to the people who be still drive over those pothole ? the hon . Member may have misunderstood I ; the figure I be refer to be from 2009 - 10 — the very last year of the Labour Government . since then , although there have be variation because of winter and summer , the number of pothole lead to breakdown have more than halve , accord to the RAC , which be of course independent . I know there be lot of example of people drive into pothole , include I and everyone here who drive , but the overall data demonstrate beyond doubt that people be well off under the Conservatives than Labour if they want to avoid pothole that cause breakdown . long - term predictable funding lead to an increase number of repair at a reduce cost , but Labour have cancel that long - term approach , so predictability of funding for local authority have go . the efficiency associate with that predictability of funding be go , as be the cost saving . instead , we have have an announcement of £ 1 . 6 billion until 2026 , which be very welcome ; I have constructive opposition to this issue , so when more funding come for the repair of pothole , I welcome it . however , if we look beneath the bonnet , we see that the Labour Government have at the same time increase cost to local authority through their national insurance contribution hike of £ 1 . 1 billion . they give £ 1 . 6 billion with one hand , but they take away £ 1 . 1 billion with the other . it do not stop there . their hike on vehicle excise duty over the course of this Parliament mean another £ 1 . 7 billion be take from motorist . they take £ 1 . 7 billion from motorist , and they give £ 400 million net back for road improvement . what happen after 2026 ? do we know ? do the Secretary of State herself know what happen with the funding after that ? the Government have be entirely silent , lead local authority to be deeply concerned about their ability to plan long - term repair , not just to pothole but to road infrastructure as a whole . it be an unfortunate example of this Government chase headline over responsible government . let we move from local road to the major road network . labour ' s first act on come into Government be not to back our road infrastructure or improve repair but to cancel five vital road improvement scheme . those be the A5036 Princess Way , the A358 Taunton to Southfields , the M27 Southampton junction 8 , which be obliquely refer to early , the A47 roundabout at Great Yarmouth — the other end of the Thickthorn roundabout , which the Secretary of State be continue the previous Government ' s improvement of — and the A1 Morpeth to Ellingham . Labour be not prioritise road or road user , despite take another £ 1 . 7 billion out of vehicle excise duty . it be dip its hand yet far into the pocket of motorist while cancel major road improvement . that contrast with the conservative record of 2015 to 2025 , where we invest £ 40 billion into England ' s strategic road network . short - term headline over long - term planning — that be Labour . what be to come with labour ' s road maintenance plan ? I hope this debate will shed light on it and clarify the future of funding for road maintenance . perhaps the Secretary of State can whisper into the ear of the Minister for the future of Roads before she wind up so she can tell we what happen after 2026 , because local authority deserve well than to be march up a hill with road repair and then leave in a hole . I call Alex Mayer . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . " it ' s like drive over the surface of the moon , " be what Karen from Houghton Regis tell I . Marion and Brian explain how they have have two tyre ruin , cost they over £ 200 . a plumber from Dunstable send I multiple photo of crater in his road . Councillor Matt Brennan show I more when we visit Aldbanks in Dunstable , and a constituent in Leighton Buzzard tell I that Mile Tree Road have become increasingly hazardous because of the number of pothole . after 14 year of conservative rule and the increase effect of climate change , too many of our road be in a sorry state . figure from the RAC show that driver encounter , on average , six pothole per mile in England and Wales . that be bad news for not only car driver but cyclist , bus user and coach . I welcome the Government ' s investment in improve our road condition . this Labour Government have increase the funding to Central Bedfordshire council to nearly £ 9 . 7 million this year , which represent a 39 . 7 % increase . that sound like really good news , and one would think that more pothole would get fill in , so I be really concerned to see that the council budget show only a 5 % increase in highway spend . I appreciate that Central Bedfordshire council also contribute capital to the highway budget along with the Government , but I be hugely disappoint by a statement make at the council ' s joint budget scrutiny taskforce committee : " when the Government announce that we would receive more funding , the decision be make to spend less of our own money rather than increase the programme . " I have warn that that attitude could jeopardise the full uplift of Government funding . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s thought on that . in the light of that , I particularly welcome the Government ' s plan , as we have hear , for council to publish report on their website by the end of June detail what they be do to improve the state of local road . I be especially pleased to hear that the report will be short and in plain English — all report should be , really . particularly important be that the template mean that council must show how many hole they fill in during the previous five year . resident expect , and indeed deserve , to see the number of pothole be fill in increase . we be all watch this space . council will also be require to show how they be spend more on long - term preventive maintenance programme , which be incredibly important . as I have say , we be live in a time of climate emergency , and the wetter winter and extreme of hot and cold be make pothole bad by increase the number of freeze - and - thaw cycle . however , some emerge technology may help . apparently , artificial intelligence can identify crack and spot pothole before they appear . there be also graphene - reinforce asphalt , which be self - healing , as well as bacteria - infuse cement and system to regulate road temperature . tech be clearly move apace . give all those innovation , be the Minister consider update the Department ' s guidance on prevent pothole during the winter ? while we be on climate change , well - maintain and smoother road reduce fuel consumption and cut emission . datum show that smoother road can reduce vehicle emission by more than 5 % . the opposite be true for bad road : the Centre for Economics and Business Research find that poor road condition have an impact on driver behaviour , as I think we know as we try to swerve around pothole . it have calculate that that change driver behaviour from speed up and slow down mean that co2 emission be about 0 . 5 tonne high . it be also crucial to minimise the disruption cause by utility company ' street work — I know that Ministers have repeatedly state that — because we know that when a road be open up with a trench , that can reduce its structural life by an average of 17 % . I therefore draw all hon . member ' attention to the street work inquiry currently be carry out by the Transport Committee , which I and other hon . member in the Chamber be member of . member can tune in to any of the evidence session , and the final report will be available very soon in all good Vote Offices . we be all familiar with instance where the same stretch of road or pavement seem to be repeatedly open up by different company over a short period , particularly in new development . a constituent write to I about Bedford Road in Houghton Regis to say that , over roughly a month , five different company have dig up the road , one after another . when I query that with the council ' s street work team , I be inform that " no collaboration opportunity be identify to reduce the number of road closure " . resident think the situation be ridiculous . let I turn to cost . in April 2024 , the Centre for Economics and Business Research report that poor road condition be cost £ 14 . 4 billion a year in economic damage to England — or 60 % of a Tory Government black hole , as I like to think of it . but there be hope , because the Department for Transport ' s economic appraisal tell we that for every pound invest in local road maintenance , there be a minimum return of £ 2 . 20 , and typical return identify of up to £ 9 . 10 at a national level . finally , let I turn to bus and coach . unlike car motorist , cyclist and pedestrian who can often take different route when there be a particularly bad potholed road or a road be close because of pothole , bus have an obligation to stick to their route wherever possible . the Confederation of Passenger Transport highlight a 13 % increase in bus operator ' cost per kilometre since 2019 , with much of that attribute to delay , diversion and disruption , include those cause by the poor state of road . First Bus tell I that it spend more than £ 1 million each year repair bus suspension component . that cost inevitably get pass on to passenger through high fare and reduce service level . I welcome the Labour Government ' s investment in road maintenance and sincerely hope that all local council will rise to the challenge . for my constituent who think it be like drive on the moon , this really be not rocket science , but nor be it just a matter of inconvenience . fill in these pothole be crucial for safety , for the environment and for economic growth . I receive countless email and letter from local people across the constituency about the shocking state of our road . People be rightly frustrate about pothole , and about the little and long wait for repair force on they by Bradford council . this be perhaps one of the most important issue that all of we , as mps , get correspondence about . why ? because it impact we each and every day , whether we be commute to work or simply get out and about in the car to go and do thing . we all care about the state of our road right outside our door . I want to take you through my constituency , Madam Deputy Speaker , reference a few road and highlight the level of concern that constituent rightly raise with I . take Elliott Street , which run through the centre of in Silsden in my constituency . I be first contact by resident on this major road year ago , and the situation be poor then . over the last few year , it have only get bad , to the extent that people on social medium describe the state in which labour - run Bradford council have leave the road as a mere joke . despite have consistently raise the matter with Bradford council , it take year for the council to finally get on with it . I be pleased that in just the last two week , the resurfacing work have now finish . the work be welcome — of course they be — but resident on Elliott Street and across the wide Silsden area should not have have to wait year for such a busy and important road to be repair . Elliott Street be just one example . there be similar story in Keighley , on Westburn Avenue , on Oakworth Road , on Halifax Road and on North Street — the list go on . in Ilkley , we have a difficult junction at the top of the Cowpasture Road , north of Ilkley grammar school . local conservative councillor David Nunns and Andrew Loy have consistently lobby Bradford Council to look at this dangerous junction . in the Worth valley , the side of Hill House Edge Lane be crumble , with car get stick in the ditch as they pass one another . again , local conservative councillor Rebecca Poulson , Chris Herd and Russell Brown have consistently lobby Labour - run Bradford council to sort the issue out , but no repair have be undertake . I do not want to make this too political , but I think it should be note — although I be not a Bradford Member — that £ 350 million of revenue funding have be cut from Bradford council since 2010 . the council be do an awful lot under difficult circumstance bring about by 14 year of the hon . member ' s Tory Government . I be pleased that the hon . member bring that up . just in 2021 , Bradford council , through its statutory responsibility to provide feedback to the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government — it be the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities at the time — report that it be in sound financial health . that be the year in which it apply to be city of culture . this year , resident across the Keighley and Ilkley constituency face a 10 % increase in council tax , despite our road be in such a poor state . that lead I on to a freedom of information request that I put to Bradford council . I be astounded by what I find out . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement today that there will be more transparency in our local council , because through that FOI request I learn that between 2017 and 2022 , just 4 % of Bradford council ' s identify spending for highway be allocate to my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley . for reference , labour - run Bradford council be able to find and allocate £ 13 . 1 million for the Bradford South constituency , £ 19 . 2 million for the Bradford East constituency and £ 17 . 4 million for the Bradford West constituency , but only £ 4 . 1 million be spend across the Keighley and Ilkley constituency on highway over that six - year period . this be despite many concern quite rightly be raise from resident across Keighley , Ilkley , the Worth valley , Silsden and Steeton . wherever they may be in my constituency , they be rightly complain about repair to road not be undertake , pavement problem not be address and pothole not be look at , so it be no wonder that my constituent be lose trust in our local labour - run authority . the list go on , and it include concern that be be raise by local conservative councillor try to hold labour - run Bradford council to account , but unfortunately we seem not to be get anywhere and we be not be listen to . when Bradford council do spend money on road in my patch , the question be : do it actually spend that money on what people want it to be spend on ? of course it do not . when Bradford council spend more than £ 100 , 000 — with an £ 87 , 500 contribution from Ilkley town council — on road in Ilkley , we get speed hump and a blanket 20 mph zone , rather than get our pothole address . in a parish council referendum on this very issue , 98 . 3 % of people in Ilkley oppose the roll - out of way over 100 speed bump in the centre of Ilkley . if you ask anyone in Ilkley what they would like from a good proportion of the 200 grand be spend on our road , they would say , quite rightly : " fix the pothole and sort out that junction at the top of Cowpasture Road . " but Bradford council would not listen . it go against a public referendum on this issue and instead spend the money on more speed hump , contrary to what the people in Ilkley rightly advocate through a vote on the issue at the ballot box . so , what be the Government go to do to ensure that my constituent get a fair deal on their road from Bradford council ? the Secretary of State promise great investment into road be absolutely vital and to be welcome , but it be no good make these promise when the fund do not get past the dictatorial local council , which do not allocate the money to my constituency . in Keighley and Ilkley we deserve our fair share , but Bradford council be unfortunately more than happy to allocate our council tax and any central Government fund that come into the Bradford district not to the road in Keighley and Ilkley , Silsden or the Worth valley , but instead to Bradford city itself . it be about time we have our fair share of highway spending across our constituency of Keighley and Ilkley . as many member of this House will recognise , road maintenance be something that deeply resonate with all our constituent ; it be a basic need . People across my constituency leave their home every day in car that they pay tax on , to drive on road whose upkeep they pay tax for but that be just not up to standard . in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , we have have 14 year of underfunding and a Tory county council that my resident tell I could not care less about road in our area because it be not an area that typically vote for they . this be just not good enough . when I be out and about on the doorstep during the election , this issue come up over and over again . pothole and crumble road become totemic ; they become a metaphor for crumble council service . cash for our area be strip back year after year , not just for road but for development and growth , while the council announce game show - style cheque and tell we we be be level up . it feel like a pr exercise , and it be a pr exercise . from Burnley to Padiham and down the street of Brierfield , the people I represent share their frustration with I , and I share that frustration too . for too long , our local road have be leave to deteriorate while the previous Government fail to take action . it be a failure not just of investment , but of attention — attention to the everyday concern of people simply try to get to work , to take their kid to school or to visit love one . when road crumble , it be not just a nuisance ; it become a safety hazard . it damage vehicle and it erode public confidence in the Government to do the bare minimum . constituent ask I how something so basic , so essential to daily life , can be leave to crumble in this way . as the Secretary of State say , we can not claim to be serious about economic growth and opportunity if we can not even assure people that they will not have to drive on surface that be similar to the dirt road of the Aussie outback . but I stand here today encourage because I be proud to support a government that be now do thing differently , make meaningful and measurable investment , get thing do and deliver . the Minister have make a clear commitment to reverse the decline in local road condition and we be about to see the result , with £ 1 . 6 billion for road this year , which be enough to fill 21 million pothole . Lancashire be receive a total funding package of £ 46 . 825 million for the 2025 - 26 financial year . that be a 40 % uplift on what be allocate in the previous financial year , and it take the full road repair fund to £ 65 million . this investment be not just a number on a spreadsheet , although they be certainly welcome ; it be real , meaningful progress . it send a message that we be prioritise road so that many of our constituent can use they every day . this be a historic funding package for our road , but I be disappointed that tory - run Lancashire county council have see fit to resurface only three road in the whole of Burnley and Padiham this year , as declare so far : Queen Victoria Road , Brunshaw Avenue and Bank Parade . that be all very welcome , but for the amount of money we be put in , we need to see more . the resurfacing of road in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield be about more than asphalt . it be about improve road safety , reduce vehicle repair cost and boost accessibility for everyone . it be about make our town easy , safe and more pleasant to live and move around in . while we be make progress , it would be remiss of I , as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , not to mention the Committee ' s recent report : " condition and maintenance of Local Roads in England " . we in the Committee find that the Department for Transport ' s datum in this area be not sufficient , and that accountability in road maintenance be still far too fragmented . we can not afford to play pass the parcel between local and national authority when our road be fall apart beneath our foot . the Committee say that the dft should take great ownership by improve data collection , by clearly define responsibility and by ensure that local council have the resource and the oversight to deliver quality , timely maintenance and move away from short - term fix to long financial planning of our road . a long time ago I be an executive member for finance at a metropolitan borough authority . too often , over the year I be in that role , we be pick the bone of our reserve and capital plan to find one - off pot and short fix to fund that year ' s road programme . that can not be reasonable in 21st - century Britain . I be quite pleased , therefore , to see the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement that council will have to publish datum on how many road repair they have complete and the money that they have be grant . I remain optimistic for our road and council service because , despite global economic uncertainty and the tightening of public finance across many country , this Government have make a conscious decision to invest in service that matter , to increase day - to - day spending for my council across the term of the Parliament and to get more do for my resident . in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , we be begin to see the result of the decision make around the Budget . cash — real cash — be go into our road . the deal be this : you pay your tax , and you get decent service . but for many hard work people , that just have not be the case . the basic be cut while we have to be grateful for the crumb of level up . we be leave with an empty tank and a bust engine , but give a new radio to improve the experience . we be on the road to nowhere . that be not the end of my car - relate language . while I welcome this money — new money — I will continue to work closely with Lancashire county council and the Department for Transport to make sure that this wheelie good funding for my area do not stall , and be not park for a later date , and that we get into gear , buckle in , hit the gas and deliver on this at speed . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think I have drive the point home . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I thank the Government for hold this debate , and I assure the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , that we Lib Dems be wonderfully bilingual and can travel in both kilometre and mile . as a liberal Democrat , this issue be of course close to my heart . Pothole photo be a staple of Lib Dem literature across the country . although other party may dismiss our focus on pothole politic , we understand that for million , the state of our road be no laugh matter . so I welcome this debate ; it be vital that we bring renew focus to an issue that be desperately neglect by the Conservatives for year . this be not just a matter for driver . whether someone commute by car , rely on public transport or cycle , their journey begin on local road . the condition of those road directly impact the daily life of countless individual , and the truth be that we be face a crisis . despite the previous Government ' s rhetoric about stand up for motorist , their action fall woefully short . the road condition index reveal that almost 25 , 000 mile — one in 10 mile of the road network in England and Wales — require urgent maintenance within the next year , while less than half our road be report to be in good structural condition . these be not abstract figure ; they represent tangible burden on everyday life . datum from the RAC show that for anything more than a tyre puncture , driver can expect to pay almost £ 500 for a pothole - relate car repair . the number of pothole - relate breakdown attend by RAC patrol rise by nearly a fifth in the last three month of 2024 , compare with the previous quarter . while the debate about road often centre on pothole , as the most visible symptom of neglect , the real issue be the underlying condition of our road network . instead of talk about fix pothole here and there , we must shift our focus to prevention , and not merely focus on reactive repair . although the Government ' s recent injection of fund be a welcome acknowledgment of the problem , it fail to address the fact that our current road maintenance funding mechanism be simply not fit for purpose , and the backlog of repair be simply too long to be fix by short - term injection of cash . if the Government be serious about tackle this crisis , they must urgently reform the system and give council the support they need to get on top of the crisis . local council be responsible for manage 98 % of our national road network and bear the brunt of the challenge . however , they be underfunded and face huge financial pressure . analysis from the Local Government Association have confirm that due to continue inflation and wage pressure , english council face a £ 6 . 2 billion shortfall in funding across the next two year . give the challenge that council face , from balloon social care cost to the special educational need and disability crisis , highway maintenance be often see as something that can be postpone until finance improve , as we hear from the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) . road require resurface roughly every 15 year . however , year of chronic underfunding have force council to defer that crucial maintenance , lead to the current pothole plague . that have lead to a situation where the average frequency of resurfacing for all class of road be now an appalling 93 year . when I recently speak to a council ' s highway lead , he put it aptly : " road be like trouser . you can fix a hole here and there with a patch , but it reach a point where this just simply win ' t work . road in this country be at such a point where we don ' t just need new trouser — we need a whole new wardrobe . " although local council be responsible for most of their road , much of the funding for road maintenance come from central Government . however , the Department for Transport have acknowledge that the current funding model be inefficient and do not deliver good value for money . the annual funding cycle force council into reactive , short - term fix , hinder long - term planning . a long - term funding settlement would allow council to plan ahead and move away from that reactive model . furthermore , the current funding formula , base solely on each local authority ' s total road mileage , be woefully inadequate . it fail to account for the diverse need and road usage in different region , which demand a more nuanced approach . for example , Department for Transport datum indicate that Merton , in which most of my constituency lie , have the second worst uncategorised and b and c road in the country . Merton , however , receive less funding than other area with more , but well road . in a recent meeting with the Secretary of State , it be suggest by official that Merton ' s poor standing may be due to a data error in the figure submit by the council . regardless of the cause , that paint a troubling picture . either Merton be fail to maintain our road , or it be fail to accurately report their condition , neither of which be acceptable . will the Minister write to I to clarify the situation ? the current formula also neglect active travel infrastructure . although the Government have increase active travel funding , there be no provision for the maintenance of new cycle lane . similarly , on the doorstep in Wimbledon , I regularly hear complaint about the quality of pavement , which particularly affect those with mobility issue . if we be serious about promote cycling and walking , we must ensure that cycle path and pavement be properly maintain . without dedicated funding , however , they will deteriorate , discourage their use and the willingness of council to provide more such infrastructure . do my hon . friend agree with I and the Eastbourne senior forum that the state of the pavement outside the Halifax — which be like the moon , cause lot of trip and fall — be a disgrace , and that East Sussex county council need to get on top of that straightaway to give people confidence in use road and pavement again ? how could I disagree with the Eastbourne senior forum ? indeed , Eastbourne , Wimbledon and many other constituency have the same problem with pavement ; they be in a shocking condition . despite lofty talk about fix the issue , the Government have cut the highway maintenance budget by 5 % for the forthcoming year . the Government claim that that be a temporary measure , as it be a one - year funding settlement to cover National Highways until its next five - year funding period commence in 2026 . can the Minister please confirm today that the Government will make up for the shortfall in the funding settlement next year ? our motorway be key to keep our country and economy move . we can not afford to cut cost on such a critical aspect of our infrastructure . the Conservatives have lead we down the fast lane to decay . there be no doubt that our road be crumble , and motorist , cyclist and bus passenger be pay the price . it be now up to the new Government to face up to the challenge . with more short - term injection of cash and a cut to the National Highways budget , their current approach be akin to pull into a service station for a brief respite . it may delay the journey for a bit , but we remain en route to continue deterioration . if Labour be serious about fix our road , they must sort out the backlog in work that be need to allow they to be proactively , not just reactively , manage . that require the Government to relieve the pressure on local council by sort out social care and the SEND crisis , as well as implement a long - term , needs - base funding model for road maintenance . without meaningful action to support local council properly , we will continue on our journey of manage decline . I thank the Secretary of State for introduce this important debate . improve our road and highway be a critical mission for this Labour Government and will help to deliver real economic growth for my constituency . in Stoke - on - Trent South , our road experience year of decay under the previous Government and be riddle with pothole . with crater - like pothole damage car and congestion delaying commute to work , that cost my constituent . but this debate be about more than just bump and burst tyre , as important as they be ; improve our local road network will greatly boost investment in our city , rural area and neighbouring region . that be why I warmly welcome the uplift in highway funding , of which more than £ 9 million have be allocate to Stoke - on - Trent and £ 19 million to staffordshire to fix our pothole . labour - run Stoke - on - Trent city council have do excellent work on this issue already , work with midland manufacturer , JCB , to develop and use the Pothole Pro — a cutting - edge solution to fix pothole , which can complete 18 year of traditional work in just over two year . use the Pothole Pro , the highway direct service team in the city council have deliver real improvement to the city ' s road . in the last few year , it have repair 16 , 255 pothole , which be a 772 % improvement . the city council have also be use AI to map out the condition of the entire highway network — pothole , crack and depression — with a complete inventory of the street sign . the council hope to deploy the technology far on to our bin wagon , which of course go everywhere , which highlight the innovative work be do locally to improve our road network . our road network be strategically critical to the city ' s — and north Staffordshire ' s — prosperity and economic development . the A50 and a500 road be a key connector between Crewe , Newcastle - under - Lyme , Stoke - on - Trent , Uttoxeter and Derby . along this corridor be advanced manufacture company like JCB , Michelin , Toyota and Bentley , and of course within Stoke - on - Trent we have excellent ceramic company like Duchess China and Wedgwood . stoke - on - Trent be also a specialist in advanced ceramic — precisely the kind of business that be look for investment from this Labour Government and precisely the kind of advanced manufacturing company that can offer real wage and skilled employment to worker in our city and north Staffordshire , and that need good road transport . unfortunately , my constituent and company face significant challenge in get to their workplace and for freight transport , particularly on the A50 , where pinch - point roundabout be cause huge delay . a report by Midlands Connect find that commuter be delay by 37 minute per day on average due to delay at those roundabout . in August , I have a crash on one of they , and it hurt . these delay really reduce the distance that my constituent can travel for work . midland Connect have estimate that improve these road , along with build more house and invest in our advanced manufacturing corridor , will generate over £ 12 billion in gross value add . our road be really important , but as passionate as I be about road improvement , I be even more passionate about road safety . improvement go beyond economic growth and fill pothole ; they make a real difference to road safety for pedestrian in community across Stoke - on - Trent South , particularly within the rural area of my constituency , which be under the purview of Conservative - run Staffordshire county council . our community deserve road where people feel safe , not road dominate by speed traffic . high - speed road cut straight through village like Tittensor and Draycott in the Moors , make it incredibly unsafe for child and elderly resident to cross the road to catch bus , walk to school or go to doctor ' surgery . implement traffic - calm measure and pedestrian crossing and introduce low speed limit be essential step in make these village safe and accessible for everyone . I thank Josie Windsor , who have organise a petition in Tittensor to get a pedestrian crossing across the A34 , to ensure that the elderly , child and work people can access shop and public transport . I particularly thank Bassetts for its recent letter of support . I also thank resident of Draycott in the Moors — another village cut in two , this time by the Uttoxeter Road , which be often use as a rat run when the A50 be congest . there be no pedestrian crossing along the road . as in Tittensor , that mean that people risk their life cross the road to reach the other side of the village . it be hugely worrying . there be even proposal for a huge housing development , which will add to the problem . resident desperately want a roundabout and pedestrian crossing to ease congestion and improve safety , but their plea be fall on deaf ear at the county council . there have be success . in Weston Coyney , my constituent Craig Royce have campaign successfully to get a pedestrian crossing — a huge win for the local community in Stoke - on - Trent — after his friend tragically lose his life due to a dangerous driver and the lack of a crossing . I be delighted to have help Craig in his campaign by help he to liaise with relevant professional at the city council . on Hilderstone level , along the B5066 , I thank Penny Meakin for lead the Hilderstone Road speed campaign for speed control on Hilderstone Road , and I thank campaigner in Beech , who also want slow traffic . these community in my constituency be be fail by our current road maintenance system , which have low consideration for road safety , move too slowly and do not value the impact on community , whether in local village or wide region , who know their area well than we do in Westminster and , indeed , well than Staffordshire county council . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have say : " there ' s no monopoly on good idea " , so let we work with our community and our fantastic parish council to deliver the change that our road desperately need , and build connected and safe community . road be crucial to life in the Scottish Borders . they be a lifeline . my constituency stretch from Cockburnspath in the north all the way down to Newcastleton , just north of Carlisle . it take the good part of two and a half hour to drive from one end of it to the other . exclude trunk road , in the Scottish Borders there be 1 , 857 mile of local road that the council be responsible for . in addition , there be many more mile of trunk road , which the Scottish Government ' s Transport Scotland be responsible for . look around the Chamber , I ask whether any other Member present can challenge that figure of 1 , 857 mile of local road that the council be responsible for ; it be a uniquely high figure . road be essential for people in the Borders to get around , see friend , go to school , get to work and go to hospital appointment . it be crucial that we have good - quality road to just exist , never mind enjoy any of the luxury in life . it be perhaps not surprising , therefore , that I receive so much casework from constituent express concern about the quality of some of the road and the lack of investment , which I will come on to . also , when I do survey and knock on door each week , do my resident doorstep surgery , consistently pothole will be the no . 1 issue that local resident raise with I . I do not think any other Member have yet pay tribute to the hard - work council employee who do a very good job of fix the road under very difficult circumstance . they might not have the resource or all the equipment that they need , but they be do the good they can in very challenging circumstance to make the road as good as they can be . they often go above and beyond what be their job to ensure that the road , which be often in the community that they live in themselves , be maintain to the good possible standard . very often , what make such employee ' life even more difficult be the fact that electricity , gas or broadband company come into their community and dig up the road . the council employee might come and fix a road one week , then discover that a few day or week later , a utility company will come through and dig up the road again . much more need to be do , both by the UK Government and the Scottish Government , who be responsible for this policy area in Scotland , to ensure that these type of utility company be under a much tough obligation to restore road to the standard that they be in prior to the work be carry out , or indeed bring they up to an even well standard . if they choose to do the work , they need to invest in the road so that it be bring up to a good standard once they have complete it . my council , Scottish Borders council , have invest in the JCB Pothole Pro equipment , which the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) mention . amid grow concern about the state of the road in the Borders , the council feel that it be a good investment . they buy one , and have now hire a second . this machine carry out 1 , 889 road repair between April and the end of December last year , which result in a significant improvement in the local road network . there be still a huge backlog of road repair , thank largely to the lack of investment by the SNP Government ; I will come to that shortly . Scottish Borders council have also set up a new interactive map on its website of the whole council area . People can identify road and provide evidence of pothole that need to be fix . as a consequence of that investment , a recent freedom of information request to all United Kingdom council show that Scottish Borders council have spend million of pound on fix pothole across the Borders . in 2020 - 21 , it invest £ 2 . 5 million ; in 2021 - 22 , it invest £ 3 . 2 million ; and in 2022 - 23 , it invest £ 3 . 8 million , total over £ 9 . 6 million over three year . I commend my Conservative - control council for make this level of investment . but on the other side of the equation , it have have to pay out more than £ 17 million in compensation to road user and car driver because of damage cause by pothole . although the council have achieve a lot , there be much work still to do . I pay tribute to my conservative colleague on Scottish Borders council for what they have do . like many other council in Scotland , Scottish Borders council be under severe financial pressure because the scottish nationalist Government in Edinburgh be not invest in local council , particularly rural council like mine in the border . the Scottish Government often ignore the need of rural community across Scotland and invest instead in the central belt . indeed , the cut that the Scottish Government have impose on local authority , include my own , be recently describe as " brutal " and " savage " cut on local authority , result in many , if not all , council across Scotland have to make very difficult choice between investment and support vital local service . although a few Labour Members represent scottish constituency be present for this debate on road maintenance , it be tell that SNP colleague represent rural constituency like my own be not here to talk about the very challenging road network in their constituency . the fact they be not here to defend the Scottish Government ' s decision to cut road investment — their Benches be empty — say a lot . do my hon . friend agree that it be not just north of the border that these cut be be make ? south of the border , we have see this new Labour Government cut the local service delivery grant by over £ 100 million . the grant be specifically allocate to assist rural council in provide much - need service , such as pothole maintenance , where the cost of delivery be much high in rural area . do he agree that be the wrong decision for this Labour Government to make ? I do agree , and I will develop that point . my concern be that policymaker , whether here in Westminster or in Edinburgh , have an urban outlook to transport . they assume that people have access to bus and train , but those of we live in rural community do not , so road and car become much more important . I have to point out that Edinburgh be Scotland ' s low fund local authority , look at the block grant allocation . in prepare for this debate , I check what the Scottish Government have be say about the pothole crisis in Scotland , and I find that they have say absolutely nothing . have the hon . Gentleman be able to find anything from they on this issue ? the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . Scottish Borders council would be very grateful to receive the level of funding that Edinburgh council receive . notwithstanding that , it be a problem that the Scottish Government do not invest in road in the way we would expect . the hon . Member will be fully aware of the scandal surround the a9 , which do not affect my constituency or , indeed , his , but the delay and the broken promise that the SNP have make to upgrade that vital road link the north of Scotland with the rest of Scotland — and the rest of the UK , for that matter — have cause huge frustration to the rural community it serve . my criticism be not only direct at the SNP Government . as Labour Members will realise , the Labour Government be not immune from criticism either . the previous Conservative Government promise to invest in upgrade the A1 between Morpeth and Ellingham , and this Government ' s decision to cancel that upgrade have cause great upset not just in my constituency but in Northumberland . the A1 be a vital road for the local economy in the Scottish Borders , and it be also a vital road in Northumberland . it be unfortunate that the hon . member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) be no long in his place , but that road support local job and the local economy . savagely cut that funding and scrap the investment to improve that road will undoubtedly cause economic hardship for the community that rely on that road . do my hon . friend agree that this cause inconvenience not only to the many commuter who use the A1 , who want well connectivity north of the border , but to the landowner who have be move around in the negotiation for year ? this Labour Government ' s decision to scrap the funding allocate for the A1 upgrade not only affect local business in Alnwick and the safety of the crossing in Felton and Ellingham , and the like , but affect people who own land either side of the A1 who have be put through huge uncertainty . my hon . friend make an excellent point , and the local press in Northumberland be full of story of people who be effectively trap . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will come to the hon . gentleman — patience . the local press be full of story of people who be trap as a consequence of this Labour Government ' s choice not to invest in the A1 . I will now happily give way to the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who will perhaps explain why he support the cancelling of the A1 upgrade . I remind the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) and for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) that Northumberland now have four Labour mps as a result of the neglect and contempt in which the county be hold by the last Conservative Government . I also remind they that the Government in which they serve be very much responsible for mislead the people of Northumberland by promise the A1 dualle without provide any money for it . be that contempt not at the heart of why they lose Northumberland in such spectacular fashion ? the hon . member for North Northumberland be no long in his place , but he make an intervention early . he be very clear in his election leaflet that he be absolutely committed to upgrade and dualle the A1 — a promise that have now be rip up . I suspect the people of Northumberland will remember that when the next election day come . that A1 be crucial to North Northumberland and to my constituent . its road safety be terrible . forget the economic argument ; the safety argument make it all the more important . [ interruption . ] Labour member can shake their head all they want , but it be a choice that this Labour Government make , that Labour Members make , have tell the electorate the complete opposite before the election . my concern be that this Government and the SNP Government in Edinburgh sadly assume that everybody live in a big city or a big town . they assume that people have access to bus or train . for those of we live in Coldstream in my constituency , it be 14 mile to the near station , and the regular bus — the busy bus — come every two or three hour . unless we have access to a car and a good - quality road network , we be stuck . it be regrettable that this Government be not prioritise the A1 , which support my constituency to a certain extent . more importantly from my perspective , it be regrettable that the SNP Scottish Government be not invest in the road of the Scottish Borders in the way they should — and I remind the House that SNP Members be not in the Chamber today to stand up for their community who want investment in their road . staffordshire have the bad road in the country . I do not have definitive proof of that , but it be something that my constituent in Cannock Chase tell I every time I be out knock on door — and I agree with they . as we have hear many time already this evening , the british people be sick and tired of broken road , which be cost they thousand of pound when they hit pothole and make their everyday journey far more dangerous . fix the basic infrastructure on which this country rely be central to national renewal and to improve living standard . I commend the Government for their work to ensure that 14 year of pothole - cover road be come to an end . the local authority be set to share in the Government ' s record £ 1 . 6 billion of highway maintenance funding , which be enough to fill 7 million pothole a year . however , my constituent continue to share their concern with I about dozen and dozen of cratered road , such as Betty ' s Lane and Red Lion Lane in my home village of Norton Canes . here , short - term fix after short - term fix rapidly fail , mean that resident have to continue wait for last solution , ultimately lead to high cost and great disruption in the long run . I be a district councillor in my constituency for six year , and although highway be not part of my remit , I spend a huge chunk of my time on the issue , especially as successive conservative county councillor be all too often miss in action when it come to my community . in addition to pothole , block drain have be a recur problem , cause localise flooding and subsequently further damage to the road and — you guess it — more pothole . Staffordshire county council , which have be conservative run for the last 16 year , have cut back its highway budget drastically , except of course in one year in the run - up to an election , and for most road , routine drain clearage be do only once every three year . even completely compact drain that be not absorb a single drop of rain be frequently ignore as the outsourced highway contractor , who I will come to in a minute , say that they be not a priority and will be clear sometime in the next three year . in reality , that short - sighted approach often lead to localise flooding and further deterioration of the road — again , a complete false economy . a common complaint from my constituent be about the highway contractor , Amey , the epitome of profit - drive , service - limit outsourcing if ever I see one . it frequently pitch up have travel mile from its depot , only to sort out one pothole or drain at a time and leave other nearby completely ignore , even though address multiple issue at once would be far more efficient . I be sure other hon . member can relate to the frustration that my constituent feel , particularly give that in the face of that dire and costly service , the Conservatives at County Buildings in Stafford have not seek to scrap that contract . indeed , they have repeatedly reward Amey with extension . other council have switch to a more preventive approach and have have success , but in Staffordshire we be still on an endless cycle of patch job on those pothole deem the most dangerous . it be a bit like patch up a leak pipe while ignore the rest of the plumbing , and we need a proper fix for the whole system . I commend the Government ' s action to ensure that council be accountable for road maintenance and improvement . I particularly welcome the news that from 30 June this year , council such as Staffordshire county council will be require to publish detailed report on how they be spend the £ 39 million that they be get from the Government , how many pothole have be fill , and how they be minimise disruption , alongside gather input on what work and what do not work — something that have not happen in my county for a very long time . will my hon . friend give way ? I be happy to give way to my Staffordshire colleague . it be tell that in today ' s debate we have five or six Staffordshire mp debate this matter , and I wonder whether my hon . friend would agree that that speak to how let down resident and staff have be for far too long , and what happen under a Conservative - lead local council . I thank my hon . friend . I think it be no coincidence that in Staffordshire we go from have no Labour mp before the election to have nine out of 12 , and that so many of we be here today to speak up for our constituent about area of frustration , and about the failing of our county council and our hope for change in the near future . road be critical national infrastructure , and this Government must and will undo the neglect state that the previous Government leave they in . I welcome the record funding announce , but I say to my constituent that we must ensure that that record investment have the maximum benefit for our town and village . on 1 May we will go to the poll with a clear choice : carry on with a cosy relationship between the county council and an incompetent highway contractor with the Conservatives ; deep cut to budget through an Elon Musk - style " efficiency " drive with reform ; or common - sense , good value highway service with Labour . I know the choice I will be make , and I hope my constituent will join I in elect dedicated Labour county councillor who will work with this Labour Government to get the pothole fix . rise — order . after the next speaker I will impose a five - minute time limit . for resident in Stratford - on - Avon and across the country , road maintenance be one of the most visible sign of how well , or how poorly , their local area be be look after . the Local Government Association recently point out that the funding allocate for road repair be fall short of what be need . in fact , council be now spend twice as much on repair local road as they receive in Government funding . that shortfall be feel on every street in my constituency , where dangerous pothole keep reappear , road surface crack again just a few month after be patch up , and pavement be on a waiting list for many year to be repair , especially in our rural village . in Stratford - on - Avon , we be also see the consequence of poor long - term planning by Conservative - run Warwickshire county council , which be the local highway authority . take the Birmingham Road in Stratford - upon - Avon , which be one of our major artery in and out of town . resident and business have face seemingly endless roadwork which , incidentally , do not improve active travel and safety for pedestrian , cyclist , and other road user . the delay and disruption be exacerbate by emergency and non - emergency road closure by utility company , result in gridlock , child and young people not able to arrive at school on time , teacher have to act as traffic warden , and resident arrive late for work . Lib - Dem local district councillor , Lorraine Grocott , have seek answer from the county council about why the Birmingham Road work have take so long , and why they be not co - ordinate more effectively in the first place . I recently host meeting with utility company to address those serious issue , and I be disappoint that the conservative portfolio holder for transport and planning do not come . this be not just about inconvenience ; it be about the impact on small business , which lose footfall and money , especially when our town be gridlocke and there be road closure . it be also about the impact on the daily life of resident , on carer try to get to appointment , and on family get child to school . Most frustrating be that it be avoidable . yes , we need local authority to be properly resource and fund , but we also need they to plan well , to co - ordinate roadwork more effectively , and to ensure that contractor do the job well and be more responsive to the community they serve . let we give our community the road but also the local leadership that they deserve . I be pleased to speak in this important debate . as I travel down this morning , I take a moment to appreciate the headline of my local newspaper , the Eastern Daily Press , which also happen to be the local newspaper of the conservative spokesperson , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) . it state : " Norfolk council start work to resurface 320 mile of road " it be almost as if the editor have be read today ' s Order Paper . that be significant , because today mark the start of the £ 12 million of investment into improve road in Norfolk . I be sure it will be a well - read article because Norfolk be a large rural county , and as such we have an extensive road network , although sadly far too many road be in a bad state of repair . that resurfacing of 320 mile this financial year be a welcome increase on the 280 mile complete last year — an increase because of the funding that be award to Norfolk county council by this Labour Government , who I be very proud of . it be a joy to see the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham here , and I be sure that in his early speech he just omit to thank the Labour Government for that significant sum of money , because Norfolk receive one of the large sum of money in the entire country for road resurfacing . for the past decade I have be a Norfolk county councillor . I be elect in 2013 , with continuous service until I resign in March this year . during that time I lead for the Labour group on road , transport and the environment . when I be first elect back in 2013 , our highway maintenance backlog sit at around £ 40 million annually . the most recent figure from a few week ago when I resign have increase to £ 70 million — worry and disappointing , but inevitable give the extensive cut to local council funding during the past 14 year of conservative government . inflation , particularly construction - relate inflation , be also a significant contributory factor , and in the last year alone , the repair backlog in Norfolk have go up by 20 % . it be particularly difficult in Norfolk . as I say , we be a large rural county and we have more than 6 , 000 mile of road . it be especially difficult in my South West Norfolk constituency , give our routine flooding issue and our soil make - up — frankly , we be either too sandy or very wet , and that inevitably impact road integrity . damage and injury due to pothole in Norfolk have result in the county council pay out almost £ 120 , 000 in compensation in the 2023 - 24 financial year , with a total of 228 successful claim . there be 150 claim and a total bill of £ 66 , 000 the year before , so that be further evidence of the worsen problem . I be sure that all hon . member routinely receive correspondence or comment on the doorstep about pothole . that be why I be delighted that the Government have pledge £ 1 . 6 billion for pothole , which I be sure will go a long way towards address the pothole in our road that have be leave for too long . I note the comment that have be make about Staffordshire . in 2024 , the RAC show that Stoke - on - Trent be the area where people have to wait the long average time for individual pothole to be fix , follow by Westminster . Norfolk be in third place — on average it take 482 day to fix a pothole in my county . connectivity be essential for my constituent , so I be supportive when the Transport Secretary unveil £ 4 . 8 billion in funding for National Highways to deliver crucial road scheme and to maintain motorway and major a road , and we be pleased to welcome the Roads Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , recently . the cash will mean progress on pivotal scheme , such as improvement to the A47 around Norwich , which I hope that some of my South West Norfolk constituent will benefit from . the Government ' s growth agenda be reliant not just on building but on repair and fix the basic infrastructure on which this country rely . it be central to deliver a national decade of renewal that will lead to improved living standard , further productivity and secure Britain ' s economic future through deliver our plan for change . we inherit a mess but we be get on with fix Britain ' s road across the country , include in my home county of Norfolk . Glasgow ' s long and straightest road be Great Western Road , or the A82 , as it be also know . it begin in the city centre , and stretch through the west end and beyond the city boundary . it be the route that people be likely to take if they be travel to the west coast of Scotland , and it have be dub Glasgow ' s cool street , an accolade I strongly support , as a sizeable part of it be either within my constituency of Glasgow West or mark the boundary with Glasgow North . in spite of its importance , like every other road in Glasgow , it be plague by pothole . I defy anyone to drive , walk or cycle more than 200 yard along its length and not see a pothole . thank to the Glasgow Times , we now know that in 2023 , pothole on Great Western Road be responsible for 1 , 451 report to the city council , the high in Scotland . at night and in winter the situation be bad : people sometimes can not see the pothole or they find that they be so deep that they retain rainwater , so they look as if they be a clear stretch of road . car be damage and pedestrian , cyclist and driver be put at risk . however , Great Western Road be not unique . in fact , in the past two year in Glasgow , compensation to driver have almost double , while the amount of additional money spend on repair pothole have decrease by 20 % . as we know , this year the Scottish Government receive their large ever budget settlement in the 26 year of devolution , but unfortunately little of that be pass on to hard press council . Glasgow alone have lose out on over £ 400 million since 2014 , even though it have be SNP control since 2017 . it be estimate that the city need to spend £ 104 million repair pothole , with the backlog for Scotland stand at a whopping £ 2 . 56 billion . as the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , who be no long in his place , mention early , as a former councillor I also know how hard the staff in the Glasgow city council road department work , but they need to be give the resource to do the job . the hon . Gentleman also mention utility company . I have a particular bugbear about utility company : there do not seem to be any way of enforce or even encourage they to do a job , do it once and do it well . my own road have be dig up three time in the last two year by different utility company . in this day and age , we could surely make that well for resident and for the utility company , who must be literally pour money down the hole that they dig . I want to draw attention to the situation of the Clyde tunnel , which be partly in my constituency . as its name suggest , it be a north - south vehicular tunnel that run underneath the River Clyde . it be a very important road because it connect most of Glasgow , one way or another , to the Queen Elizabeth university hospital , among other location . however , the Clyde tunnel be only allocate the same amount for repair as any other standard stretch of road , and that have result in an £ 820 , 000 maintenance shortfall every single year . as a result , Glasgow city council be now think about apply a toll to the road , and I think that would be absolutely crazy . the council be consider impose it only on those who live outside Glasgow , but I really do not know how people will prove where they live before they go into the tunnel . I be sure that the £ 500 million that this Labour Government have allocate to alleviate the problem in England and Wales will make a real difference . it be therefore to be hope that the Scottish Government will pay close attention to this Government ' s action and learn from they for the good of all scottish road user , and to allow our tourism and our economy generally to grow as it should . I thank the Secretary of State for open the debate . I think it be the most interesting debate we have have since we debate bus — it be fantastic . I be proud to call Edinburgh my home , and I love the fact that tourist come from all over the world to see the city . however , I be often ashamed of what they encounter on arrival , particularly the pothole that litter the city — especially , it feel like , in Edinburgh South West . it be not just in Edinburgh , however ; Scotland ' s road be in a horrendous state , with more than 400 , 000 pothole report to local authority since 2021 . the state of our road , as we hear early , be a great visual way of understand local Government finance . what we see on our road be replicate in our school and our social care . there be particular issue in Edinburgh . as I mention early , Edinburgh receive the low per capita funding of any council in Scotland . it be absolutely shameful for a capital city to be treat in that way . since Labour take control of the city in 2022 , we have make real effort to improve our road . I speak to the transport convenor , Councillor Stephen Jenkinson , who happen to be my election agent last year — thank to he — and he inform I that Edinburgh ' s independently assess road condition indicator have improve by 4 . 5 % in the past year . that be the high ever improvement in a single year . of course , that be just a start , and what really matter be what people see when they step out of their house . the maintenance list for this year be publish just last week — pull together by an excellent council officer call Sean Gilchrist , if we be praise council officer this evening . among the 500 , 000 square metre of road and footpath that have be resurface , I be pleased to see that many have be raise by my Edinburgh South West constituent . we have a pothole probe machine ; in Edinburgh , we call it a pothole killer , and I think it top the league table . it have fill 22 , 000 square metre of pothole , so it have be busy . the UK Government have create a dedicated pothole repair fund for council south of the border . it stand at £ 1 . 6 billion , include £ 500 million of new money , so ten of million of pound have make their way to Scotland via the Barnett consequential to fill pothole . that money be hand to Scottish Government Ministers , but they have set up no similar fund . instead , they just blame council for pothole . John Swinney , the First Minister , say that council already have enough money to fix our road , despite the fact that , as we hear early from my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , the national backlog be somewhere between £ 2 . 5 billion and £ 3 billion . it be not just about the cost of fill the pothole ; Cycling UK estimate that across the UK , one cyclist die every week because of a pothole , so the cost be immeasurable . enough be enough . Scotland ' s pothole crisis can not continue . the SNP Government must show some level of ambition — the same level of ambition as the UK Government — when it come to pothole . I be disappointed that no SNP Members be here this evening to answer that . before I conclude , I will address something even more important than the state of our road . it be not bus ; it be the state of our pavement . in many case , pavement condition be bad than those on our road . I be really pleased that the Secretary of State for Transport mention pavement , and I hope that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , will do so in his sum up , because I do not hear he speak about they . if we be serious about create a more active and equal nation , we must discuss pavement condition every time we talk about road condition . there be an easy and low - cost way in which the Government could improve our footpath , and that be by give local authority the power to introduce a pavement parking ban . a complete ban in Edinburgh last year have transform the city and will lead to well quality pavement over time . I hope that town and city across England will soon have the same power . accord to the RAC , Derbyshire be the area with the most pothole on record in England . the Conservative - run county of Derbyshire have a whopping 90 , 000 pothole last year , with the next - bad area have more than 20 , 000 few . pothole be not just an issue for motorist , damage their car and rack up big repair cost ; as the Secretary of State be absolutely right to say , they be a safety issue . for cyclist , pedestrian , people use mobility aid and those with visual impairment , poorly maintain road surface can make even head to the local shop more dangerous than it need to be . this government ' s £ 1 . 6 billion investment in pothole mean £ 75 million for the East Midlands combine county authority , so Derby and Derbyshire will benefit hugely from this Government ' s funding , but we all know that it be the job of both central Government and local government to get the work do . as Derbyshire county council have be Conservative - lead since 2017 , fix those pothole only scratch the surface of the work that be need . on 1 May , resident in Derbyshire will have the opportunity to vote for a Labour - run county council that , together with this government , can work to provide the properly maintain road that we want . in Derby , we be approach the third anniversary of the closure of the bridge to Darley Abbey Mills as a result of disrepair and safety concern . Darley Abbey Mills be a beautiful UNESCO site with a rich history date back to the 1700 , and it be now home to dozen of business , from Darley Abbey Wines to Burton ' s Automotive , and from the West Mill wedding venue to Reinvention Fitness . the closure of the bridge be hugely damaging for business and difficult for resident . Derby city council build a temporary pedestrian bridge in 2022 , which be a really important mitigation . it be functional , but it be not reflective of the stunning site on the River Derwent , and it be only temporary . local Labour councillor and I have long call for a new , permanent bridge , and we have engage with business and resident about it . we have now see a massive step forward , with our Labour Mayor of the East Midlands allocate the funding for a feasibility study for the bridge . that be a key milestone . replace the bridge would make such a difference to local business and resident , but just a year ago , hope be run out . the election of a mayor who have listen and work with local councillor and business have bring back hope to the situation . it give hope to we all , because everyone will have road infrastructure project in their constituency . I hope that the election on 1 May will bring more Labour councillor to work with Labour mayor and a Labour Government to fix our road and deliver the road infrastructure that our community want . for 14 long year , road user in Bournemouth get a raw deal . motorist pay their taxis , but they have get little back . Bournemouth and the south - west have be leave behind and leave out , but no long . the broken road that our Labour Government inherit be not only risk life , but cost work family , driver and business hundred if not thousand of pound in avoidable vehicle repair . fix the basic infrastructure that this country and our town rely on be central to deliver national renewal , improve living standard and secure the future of Bournemouth and Britain . this be also a question of trust . when I be go around knock on door in the two year before the election and during the general election itself , people say to I on the doorstep , " you seem like a nice guy . we want to vote for you , but how do we know that when you go to Parliament , you will not turn out like the last lot and not deliver on the promise you say you would keep ? " I can now go to people ' s doorstep and talk about this Labour Government ' s prioritisation of fix our road , match word with deed . we have commit significant sum of money , at a time of difficult fiscal circumstance , to repair our road . we be not only invest an additional £ 4 . 8 billion to deliver vital road scheme and maintain major road across the country to get Britain move as part of our plan for change , but hand council a record £ 1 . 6 billion to repair road and fill million of pothole across the country . my own Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council have receive more than £ 10 million from the Government to fix our road over the next 12 month . I speak to our council leader on 28 March to make the point that we need to use the money or lose it . she have a long list of road that need fixing , and I be confident that they will be fix . the lack of investment to date be a false economy , because when we do not invest in our road in the first instance , we just store up big problem and big repair cost . my hope be that by invest in our road now , we can save the taxpayer money and finally have road that be roadworthy . invest in road save local council money . in 2023 , BCP council have to dish out £ 16 , 000 in compensation because of the frailty of our road . we also need to get our fundamental right . we have hear in this debate about how utility company will swan in , dig up a road that have be repair and make it bad . we need to ensure that that do not happen . we also need to think about our pavement . I have lose count of the number of elderly lady with whom I have speak on the doorstep who say that they would go into our district centre and town centre , but they be too scared of slip on broken pavement , crack a hip and not be able to get the hip replacement they need quickly enough , because they know that the NHS be ruin under the last Conservative Government . I commend BCP council and the council officer for target the key road in my constituency that need fix . I be pleased that Cranleigh Road and Gainsborough Road have have major work complete , and I be pleased that treatment work have be complete on Wheaton Road , Abinger Road , Leaphill Road , Scotter Road and Roberts Road . I call for those work on constituent ' behalf . I be pleased to see plan for the resurfacing of section of Ashley Road in Boscombe as part of the town fund , which be a much - need investment in that area . I be also pleased that we will see significant work on Holdenhurst Road . that be particularly important to support not only road user — household and family — but our tradespeople . when I knock on door and talk with our small business owner and tradespeople , they constantly talk about have their tool steal and the fact that repair or replace they can cost up to £ 2 , 730 . the threat of crime be a constant worry , but their road just be not be fix , despite the fact that they pay so much money in taxis . I will close by say that road safety be not only about repair the pothole on our road ; it be about make sure that we invest in pedestrian crossing . I have be work with Councillor Sharon Carr - Brown of Queen ' s Park and Charminster ward to introduce a zebra crossing on queen ' s Park Avenue to enable schoolchildren to more easily access that busy street . currently , the Department for Transport do not permit the use of side road zebra on the public highway . use they would allow stretched council budget to go far in improve the public ' s ability to safely cross the road . I have be call on the Department for Transport to support local councillor ' call , and my own call , for well zebra crossing provision . I be glad that we be end the pothole plague . I commend my resident and constituent for call for improved road , and I will continue to work alongside they to make the case for more funding and well investment in our road . under the previous Government , it too often feel like we be in the passenger seat with no one at the wheel , drive down the road with no sense of direction and hit bump after bump along the way . that be not just a rather strained metaphor ; it be a reality for too many of my constituent . I be pleased to say , however , that follow Labour ' s success in win control of Bracknell Forest council in 2023 , the new Labour administration immediately set to work to address what it feel — and what I know — to be a huge priority for local resident , set out a plan to invest £ 5 million over four year . that include an extra £ 1 million over the baseline in this year ' s budget . on top of that local investment , I be proud that the new Labour Government have provide a 35 % uplift in Bracknell ' s pothole budget — that be £ 3 . 2 million more . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for give way , and congratulate he on the excellent speech he be make . do he agree that pothole be a costly , dangerous menace on our road , and do he welcome the decisive action this Government be take to fill those pothole , which include nearly £ 12 million for my constituency ? absolutely — I be very happy to do so . the reason why that investment be so badly need , in Reading West and Mid Berkshire as well as in Bracknell , be the huge backlog of repair we have inherit from the previous Government . as well as resurface major and residential road that have not receive the support they need for too long , this investment will allow for other upgrade , include a new toucan crossing between Halifax Road and Ranelagh Drive in Bracknell . Bracknell Forest council be also use that investment to address the press need for more parking . that be a massive issue in Bracknell , which have a number of old estate — previously social housing — where there be simply not enough parking for resident . however , because we have be put resident ' priority first , we have deliver more parking on estate through the grass verge conversion scheme . it be slow progress , and there be much more to be do , not least because it require agreement between the local authority and the social housing provider . although the Minister have very kindly speak to I about this issue before , I ask she what more support she can set out . it be clear that these investment be not " job do " ; there be a huge amount more to do to address the issue of pothole and parking . that be why I welcome the scrutiny enable by the Government through annual progress report , so that resident can see the action that we and the local council be take on their behalf . from October , there will be a duty to listen to resident ' priority for what work need to be do and where it need to happen . I be proud to say that I believe Bracknell Forest council already do so , but extra focus be always welcome . I also want to touch on the issue of roadwork cause by utility company . during the general election , there be a large number of roadwork in Crowthorne in my constituency , so much so that the joke on the doorstep be , " how do you leave Crowthorne ? you don ' t . " Crowthorne be a lovely place — I be very proud to live there — but one do occasionally have to leave . just this weekend , I have be deal with utility company ' roadwork down Yorktown Road in Sandhurst . that road , which be the main road through Sandhurst , have be repeatedly dig up by utility company . one constituent comment on Facebook , " I have work out that since the start of the year , Yorktown Road have only be free from extremely disruptive roadwork for about 30 day " — that is 30 of the 100 or so day we have have this year . can the Minister tell we what more we can do to make sure that those disruptive roadwork cause by utility company do not repeatedly hit the same stretch of road , which sadly all too often lead to what be a resurfaced road only last year be leave in a terrible state of repair ? in the short time I have leave , I will touch on another important element of our road network : bus . I be pleased that under this Labour Government , we have see a £ 1 million investment into Bracknell Forest bus . that be more than in the previous three year combine . that have see massive improvement to our local service , include the 194 bus , which now serve Buckler ' s Park in Crowthorne . that have be able to leave , I be pleased to say . the X94 be now stop at martin Heron station , with more journey between Heatherwood and Frimley Park hospital , connect our train station and our hospital up with our bus network . the council have also announce new companion pass for companion of disabled passenger to travel for free . more be come with the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , so that we can see great local control over our bus network . with this Government , we be back in the driver ' s seat , back behind the wheel and , I be proud to say , drive on resurface road . there be more to do , and there be more pothole to be fill , but that be this Government ' s plan for change , and it be deliver . drive through Stafford have become an absolute nightmare . for year now , we have be in the grip of what can only be describe as a plague of roadwork . it be not the odd disruption here or there , but an ongoing onslaught that have affect nearly every part of our town . to be fair , it be not the first time I have speak to the House about how poorly resident across Stafford , Eccleshall and the village have be treat by Staffordshire county council when it come to roadwork and maintenance , but I be pleased that today I get to do so at length because , frankly , the people I represent deserve to have their voice hear loud and clear . we face simultaneous disruption from a litany of roadwork across town , of which I will name just a few . on Station Road , work be about to begin . on Market Square , another set be about to start . on Tipping Street , it be the same story . there be Radford Bank , which have be of particular concern , as well as Eastgate Street , North Walls , Gaolgate Street , Malt Mill Lane and Beaconside , which be a major artery now reduce to a bottleneck . then there be Corporation Street , where the disruption be so severe that traffic be reroute through Co - operative Street , cause real problem for resident . I speak to a constituent on the doorstep only a few week ago who tell I that they feel like they be stick in a constant state of dangerous disruption and that their small road have become a permanent rat run , and they be not alone . I do for a moment , when I be write this speech , consider do a full list of all the roadwork in Stafford and give the House the date period , a bit like the shipping forecast , but we work out that it would take the whole debate . while it be right that road be repair , I can not condone the cavalier attitude show towards the need of resident and business through poor communication and poor engagement . the same road be be dig up or be plan to be dig up on repeat because of a lack of strategic planning between organisation . Staffordshire county council be receive nearly £ 40 million in funding next year from the local transport authority . alongside Stoke - on - Trent , it will receive a furth £ 11 . 6 million in additional cash for fix pothole and road maintenance . that be this Labour Government put their money where their mouth be . this Labour Government be provide funding with money that be there , rather than promise and unfunded commitment . this Labour Government be hand council the cash and the certainty they need , and it be now up to they to get on with the job , to put that money to use and to prove they be deliver for their community . after year of neglect from successive conservative government , it be welcome news to my constituent that there be safeguard in place for this funding . if Staffordshire county council do not show how it be improve our road , it will risk lose 25 % of the funding boost . the council must publish report on its website by 30 June this year , detail how much it be spend , how many more pothole it have fill , what percentage of its road be in what condition and how it be minimise streetwork disruption . my constituent in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village deserve well than the last Conservative Government and the poor communication and treatment they have receive from Conservative - lead Staffordshire county council . I will continue to raise their concern until we see real change in how these decision be make , communicate and manage by Staffordshire ' s Conservative county council . it be a pleasure to speak about road maintenance and the importance of safe , accessible road in Northumberland and western Newcastle . under the last government , the condition of the county ' s road be neglect , ignore and disregard , which damage the basic infrastructure and social fabric of my constituency . throughout the constituency , I be regularly confront by road that have be leave in a state of disrepair — for instance , the B6307 . I could name many more , but in Hexham , Prudhoe , Acomb , Anick , Hepscott and Haltwhistle , and even in small village such as Ogle , crumble surface , erosion and deep pothole be rife . when I speak to local people on the doorstep , the first thing that they generally ask I about be a fault in their local road . quite small road in Northumberland experience industrial traffic , and pothole can cause real damage and danger . it be a disgrace that the safety of resident in my constituency be be jeopardise by poor road surface that not only put the wellbeing of resident at risk , but cause considerable damage to vehicle and inflict expensive repair on driver . one example be the road in Newton village , which be only wide enough to fit one car at a time , require driver to pull over regularly . because of the erosion on the side of the road , driver be experience significant damage to their vehicle and , as a result , increase financial burden . because of rampant flooding on the road , the county council ' s attempt patch repair be often undo within minute . when I visit the area with member of Newton by the Sea parish council , I see with my own eye the repair be carry out and , within minute , the pothole be flood . resident drive to pick up their child from school , young people drive to access employment , people drive to the shop and those cycling to explore the wonderful landscape that make north - east England the good place in the country to visit should not have to regularly encounter safety hazard or experience vehicle damage because of those road surface . this be inhibit access to opportunity throughout the region , but the conservative administration in the county council have take their eye off the road . they be fail to communicate timeframe for repair , and fail to improve the condition of local road . even where basic repair have be provide , they be slapdash . Lawrence O ' Donnell , the labour candidate for Prudhoe North and Wylam , tell I that on Wylam bridge the same pothole have be patch eight time in 12 month . it seem to I that the council be disregard the basic welfare of resident and let down resident across Northumberland , and on 1 May we will have the opportunity to vote it out . the community should not be neglect owe to the conservative majority ' s ignorance of rural life and affair and its contempt for the people of Northumberland . I be pleased that this Labour Government have commit additional money to deliver vital road scheme to fix our local road . while the Minister be here , let I echo the call from my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) for the Government to consider the urgently need safety work on the A1 , and , this time , to ensure that any work that be do be properly fund . let I also make my own pitch for the A69 to receive similar treatment . it be clear that ours be the only party that will prioritise local road , and that we need a labour - back council in Northumberland to ensure that that happen . there be a few more point that I hope the Minister will address when she respond to the debate . I have recently meet quite a few local farmer who have tell I that they want electric vehicle charge point in their farm shop car park , but be find it difficult to obtain grant from the Department for Transport . they be be tell that these be only available for service station , but there be not a huge number of service station on the A69 . put charging point in farm shop car park would be a great way of boost our net zero credential and ensure that more people throughout Northumberland access farm shop and put more money into the local rural economy . it be easy to play a hackneyed political game in this context , but it be not just politician who benefit from pothole be fix . it be the public — the people do the school run and the people drive to work , whether they be go to work at Egger or Essity , or whether they be travel to Newcastle or to Carlisle across my vast constituency , the big in England . let I use my last 15 second to describe my visit to Newcastle airport , where I see the runway be relaid with tarmac from — I be tell — my constituency . it would be great to see some of that knowledge , skill and expertise put to use to fix the road of Northumberland . People in Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket must navigate pockmark and pimpled street — how depressing and frustrating ! People be force to accept a fear of damage or even injury as a precondition of use our road , and they be lock in extend battle for compensation with the council and their insurer . we all know about this problem . only 36 % of local road in the east of England be in good structural condition . People talk about the effect of pothole on motorist , and quite rightly — they be dangerous , damage to car and a daily irritant for many of we . however , it be not just car owner who be affect by our road , and many people know a horror story . it be no surprise to I , have sit in this debate , that my son , a student at Keele University in Stoke - on - Trent , be involve in a horrendous bicycle crash as he come down a steep hill and go head over heel when his front wheel land in a pothole . cyclist know all about pothole . the evidence suggest that between 2017 and 2023 , one person per week be kill or seriously injure while cycling , so pothole cause death . this be a trend that have not show any sign of abate . bus driver and taxi operator can not do their job safely when the road underneath they simply do not work , and our emergency service can not help we if they be expect to use crumble road . I have hear of paramedic whose ambulance have be damage , to the point of be undriveable , by hit a pothole on the way to a call - out . well , smoother road will support our local economy , improve transport and , most importantly , limit the number of accident , so it be wonderful to hear that the Government be at last do something after more than a decade in which our local road be simply ignore under the Tories . in Suffolk , the effect of the decline in highway spending — last year , it be down by almost 25 % compare with 2015 — can be easily see , but that be already change . pothole be get fix more quickly , because our local authority be get a much - need injection of cash from this Labour Government . in Suffolk , they be get an extra £ 11 . 7 million this year for that purpose . this Labour Government be take this issue seriously and deliver for the people of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , and I be glad to see that they be not simply paper over the crack . they will use the late tech to ensure that public money be spend as effectively as possible on last repair so that our road do not split up again . brilliant new pothole - fill machine and surface technology will save we money , and it be great to hear about the advance in technology from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) . minister have take the decisive action that the previous Government put off for too long , and I hope the rest of the House can join I in congratulate they on that . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate , because the state of our road be absolutely critical for safe travel , transportation and logistic , particularly in community that rely on the road network . as a former councillor , I greatly welcome the Government ' s provision of £ 1 . 6 billion for road maintenance in England , and I be sure that colleague who have be councillor will agree that few topic flood local politician ' mailbox more than pothole and the condition of our road . motorist , cyclist and pedestrian alike have be fail by consecutive conservative Governments , with council budget slash to the bone , and their scottish counterpart be no well off . a report by the Local Government Benchmarking Framework find that the continue budget pressure on local council have result in a 20 % reduction in spending on road maintenance , and we see the budget cut physically etch into the tarmac across our city , town and village . hon . member have speak about the need to resurface road , rather than just fill in pothole . although that be ideal in many situation , the reality be that council have not be able to afford to do so , so they fill in pothole that break up a few month down the line . I recently meet councillor in the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency to discuss how year of Scottish Government austerity have leave our road in a dire condition . from Bo ' ness to Bathgate , we see it all over the place . councillor be frustrated , hard - work council staff be really frustrated and local resident be frustrated and angry . as my former council role try to deliver road improvement highlight , the state of the road all come back to local government funding . the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) borrow a few of the adjective I have note down . in Scotland , we have have 18 year of savage cut , chronic ringfencing and brutal underfunding of local service by the SNP Government . I have huge sympathy with what the hon . Lady be say about the underfunding and lack of support from the Scottish Government , but would she sympathise with I ? in the London borough of Havering , we have the Mayor of London and the Greater London Authority , which take huge sum of money from my constituent , yet we do not see much of it spend in place such as Romford . road such as the A12 and the a127 , which the Mayor of London be mean to look after through Transport for London , be often neglect . so there be a common theme about these high authority that take money away from our constituent , but do not spend it on the people pay the cost . I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but it will be no surprise to he that I can not agree with he , give the year of massive underfunding that former conservative Governments inflict on council across England . we have have year and year of chronic underfunding of local service , so I know that the £ 1 . 6 billion will be appreciate by council across England . however , it be yet to be confirm that the result additional funding for Scotland will reach local government . I write to the Deputy First Minister early this year to find out when the money would be pass to council in Scotland . in her response , she make it clear that it be for the Scottish Government to decide how that additional money will be spend , and that there be no guarantee that it will make it to council , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) have also discover . as so often with the SNP Scottish Government , funding be pass over from the UK Government and it be never hear of again . it be use to plug mismanage white elephant , to fund a research unit on independence or to finance shadow embassy overseas . while receive the large ever Budget settlement for Scotland , the Scottish Government have not yet commit to the very basic step of repair our road and deliver a safe environment for motorist , cyclist and pedestrian alike . People across England will benefit from the huge investment of this Labour Government , and the SNP Scottish Government must not stand in the way of this Labour Government deliver improve road for the people of Scotland . our motorist , cyclist , resident and council deserve the same commitment and ambition to improve our road as this Labour Government be show in England . there be nothing more symbolic of broken Britain and the mess we inherit than the state of our pothole - riddle road . Bumpy , crumble and unsafe road have become the norm rather than the exception . for far too long , our infrastructure be allow to deteriorate , with cash - strap council have to prioritise vital service . the damage have build up year after year , and now it be a problem we be all face across the country . I be quite flabbergast when I hear the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) say that road be well for motorist in 2024 than they be 15 or 20 year back . I would like to invite the shadow Minister to come and visit Wolverhampton North East , because he would be hard - pressed to find resident who share that view . in Wolverhampton North East , I hear it on the doorstep every time I speak to resident about their priority and their issue : they be feed up with swerve pothole ; they be angry about how much money they have have to spend on repair ; and let we not forget the rise insurance premium , a direct result of the number of claim people have to make due to damage road . with this government , thing be begin to change . I welcome the Government commit £ 1 . 6 billion to local highway maintenance across England . of that , £ 500 million will go directly to fix 7 million pothole . that be a huge step forward , but because of the dire state of the road , it be just the beginning . for Wolverhampton , that will support £ 9 . 7 million in funding for this financial year , a significant investment . but our road be in such poor condition that a single investment will not fix everything overnight . the problem be year in the making and it will take time to repair the damage cause by year of neglect . there be not a quick fix here , so I welcome a strategic programme to improve road across Wolverhampton : resurfacing , surface stress , and preventative treatment that will last . to everyone who have reach out to I , thank you . your frustration be justify . we know there be more to do and we can not fix every road overnight , but , after year of frustration , with this record investment cash - strap council can finally get on with the job . I be glad to have this opportunity to address a problem that come up in almost every street when I be out door - knock in Stevenage and our village : ever more pothole and the general disrepair of our road . when I make a point to someone recently about the importance of tackle pothole , they dismiss it as a trivial matter . I happen to think that it be very serious . it be very serious when I be tell by a parent of a low - income family , just about get by , that the pothole she have report to her conservative county councillor time and again have not be fix and end up cause hundred of pound of damage to her vehicle . it be simply not an option for she to pay for it , so the family have to take significant time out of their week to make a claim . then there be the young teacher on her bike who hit a pothole , tumble over and sustain serious injury , which cause she to miss several week of school . the bad thing be that this should all be preventable . statistic from the online retailer Blackcircles . com show that Hertfordshire have the high average payout for pothole - relate claim in the UK , with an average of £ 367 per claim in 2023 . that amount be significantly high than the national average of £ 261 per claim . I can tell you why that be . our conservative - run county council in Hertfordshire have totally fail on road repair , leave our road in Stevenage and the village of Knebworth , Codicote , Datchworth and Aston in a state of total disrepair . the first reason it have fail be bottom - up . conservative councillor generally be not proactive in our community , so council officer and the highway team be not get the quality of reporting on where the issue be and what the priority should be from the ground up . the second issue be top - down . fourteen year of funding cut from successive conservative government to local council in an era of austerity be cheer - lead by conservative county councillor in Hertfordshire , while their budget decline and outcome get bad . stevenage Conservatives recently claim that Hertfordshire be the well - run county council in the country . I gently suggest that when 14 year of austerity devastate a council ' s budget and local conservative be in charge of allocate what be leave , we end up with a council rank by the Times last year as the 172nd well perform in the country , with very little leave for the road repair . there be , believe it or not , a third issue : this be the existential one . the conservative cabinet member for highway at Hertfordshire county council , also a Stevenage councillor , do not even understand what a pothole be . in 2023 , he proudly claim that outstanding road repair in Hertfordshire be low than the national average , with only 4 % of b and c road require outstanding repair compare with 6 % nationally , which all sound fairly positive — until it be reveal that we be not compare like for like . Hertfordshire classify a pothole as be at least 300 mm wide and 50 mm deep , while just next door in Essex , they only have to be 100 mm across , and , far away in Trafford , just 40 mm deep . a road user may think they have hit a pothole in Hertfordshire , but , accord to the council , it must just be their imagination . all the while , the council would rather change the definition of a pothole or wait for people to claim for damage , cost the council more than it would to fix pothole for the future in the first place . thankfully , we be turn a corner . this new Labour Government be on the side of road user in their car , on the bus and on their bicycle , and they take the issue of fix pothole as seriously as resident expect they to . that be why our county have receive £ 9 . 3 million for road repair to fix as many pothole as possible — a marked change from 14 year of Tory austerity . while this extra funding be welcome , the public deserve to know how their council will use that funding to improve their local road , so I be pleased the Government be require council to show progress or risk lose 25 % of the funding boost . the question on all my resident ’ lip now be : can we really trust the fail Conservative - run Hertfordshire county council and the unseen and unbothered conservative county councillor to use this money properly ? we have a new Labour Government facilitate change through these measure , but we also need effective councillor to deliver that change in every street , community , town and village across Hertfordshire and the wide country . where councillor like those in Tory - run Hertfordshire fail to deliver that change , our resident can and should choose new one who can . if I could walk 500 mile , Madam Deputy Speaker , and then walk 500 more , it would be a miracle , particularly after all this bob . [ laughter . ] however , I would also have walk the full length of the road network of Doncaster . unfortunately , due to the pothole crisis face every authority in our country , the chance be that I would have trip up and fall down long before I get to anyone ' s door . such be the state of the road in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme and the amount of pothole I have report and have repair over the past few year that I be also call " Pothole Pitcher " on social medium . of course , this be no joke ; it be a very real issue that affect people ' s live , as the Lister family , who live in Hatfield , in my constituency , be aware . on his 18th birthday , Josh be drive down an avenue when he hit a huge pothole that rip through the side of his tyre and shoot he on to the kerb , leave a relatively newly pass driver not only in a degree of shock but fearful of drive ever again . he have an 18th birthday he will never forget , but for all the wrong reason . just two month later , his mum Gemma fall over a pothole on a footpath , cause she to sustain serious injury to her arm , hand and knee , with the impact last many month . pothole be not a trivial matter ; they be hugely serious , and ruin life . like most place , Doncaster and Axholme ' s road and their network be one of their most precious and most expensive asset . between the more volatile weather , increase traffic and heavy vehicle , the cost of maintain those asset have rise at the same time as the council ' s budget for deal with they be cut by half by the previous Government . we now have a repair backlog sit in the hundred of million in Doncaster alone , where our council be fight tooth and nail just to keep it at that , while try also to resolve the pothole crisis . thankfully , this Government have recognise the importance of tackle this crisis . they have increase funding to local authority , with £ 2 . 3 million for North Lincolnshire and £ 6 . 7 million for South Yorkshire . we be finally give our mayor like Ros Jones and our council , who know their area and know where to invest , the tool they need not only to fight to stand still but to really make improvement . this be just the beginning . the hon . Gentleman say we be finally give tool to mayor , but do he not agree that it be surely well to give funding directly to local council to spend on their local community ? if we give it to a mayor , it will get spend across wide area where the mayor have priority , but it will not necessarily go to area where the constituent who we represent need the money spend . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I refer to Mayor Ros Jones , who be leader of the council in Doncaster and know that area specifically — in her case , she be also call a mayor . devolve mayor also know their area very well , and they work with their area and their constituency to ensure that the money go to the right place at the right time . our council have be cry out for help for 14 year . I be pleased to say that Westminster be finally listen . it be listen to the Lister family , who I mention , to our constituent and to all the local authority that desperately need this money to invest . as such , I be almost ready to relinquish the title of " Pothole Pitcher " , but I will be focus on pavement in the future . in my constituency , like in so many other constituency we have hear about today , pothole be not just an inconvenience but a danger . they damage vehicle , put cyclist and pedestrian at risk and cost work people hundred , if not thousand , of pound in repair . for carer on their round , parent on the school run , and small business make delivery , this problem disrupt daily life and chip away at local confidence . this situation have not happen by accident . one of the last act of the previous conservative administration at North Tyneside council be to outsource road maintenance to Capita back in 2013 on a 15 - year contract . it be a 15 - year contract of poor service and inadequate outcome . during the election campaign last year — and every week when I be knock door — several people share their frustration of pothole in our local area . resident in Shiremoor on Angerton Avenue describe how they would report a pothole , then Capita would come out and gaslight they over whether the pothole exist and tell they why it would not be repair — " it wasn ' t wide enough " or " it wasn ' t deep enough " . they often argue for long period of time while more be appear , like a frustrating game of whack - a - mole . that be the legacy of failure in North Tyneside from the last conservative administration — a legacy we can never risk happen again . when we talk about legacy of conservative failure , we need look no far than Conservative - run Northumberland county council . I find it extraordinary the number of Conservative Members who want to associate themselves with that council , because under the Conservatives in Northumberland we have see staggering level of negligence . we be now the county with the third - high number of pothole in the entire country . recent research have show that 449 claim to the council for compensation due to pothole damage be successful . one might ask whether that be on par with other council in the area . it be not . Northumberland county council do not only come out high than all the individual local authority within the North East combine authority , or all of they put together , but its level of successful claim be four time that of all the council put together . there have be more than £ 250 , 000 in payout . that be a quarter of a million pound of taxpayer money that could have be far well spend . that be truly staggering give that the council could have avoid all that by adequately maintain our road . the Conservatives have their chance to fix the situation , and they fail . the road be break , and so be their credibility , both locally and nationally . the good news be that help be now come from the Labour Government . our plan for change be deliver real result , and from this month council will receive their share of £ 1 . 6 billion in new funding to repair and maintain our road . the North East combine authority , lead by Labour Mayor Kim McGuinness , will receive over £ 21 million to tackle the issue head on . this be not about press release or photo opportunity . it be about fix the basic that community rely on . that mean few parent dread the school run , few worker stick in traffic cause by roadwork , and few elderly resident fear a fall because of uneven pavement . we be not just fill in the hole . we be lay the foundation for the future . labour be deliver a £ 4 . 8 billion investment in major road scheme , preventive maintenance and long - term infrastructure renewal , which will mean few pothole , safe road and more confidence in our transport system . that be what govern seriously look like : fix the basic , support local economy and make life well for ordinary people . the people of Cramlington and Killingworth have wait long enough . labour be deliver the investment , the oversight and the plan . now it be time for council to act and for the Conservatives to explain why they ever let thing get so bad . when constituent talk to I about what matter most in their day - to - day life , road come up time and again . whether travel to work , do the school run or get to vital medical appointment , the state of our road affect people ' s quality of life . when those road be full of pothole and defect , and they damage vehicle and put cyclist and biker at risk , it send a clear message to resident : you have be forget . that be exactly how too many people feel in Kidsgrove , Talke , Butt Lane , Newchapel , Harriseahead and Mow Cop . today , I want to speak up for they . last year , Staffordshire county council launch its highway recovery plan , but many of my constituent in Kidsgrove and the surround area still feel like they be wait for it to start . time and again , resident tell I , " we report defect and we chase they up , but nothing get do . " road such as Gloucester Road , Newchapel Road and Kidsgrove Bank remain in a shocking condition . vehicle be be damage and people be quite rightly at their wit ' end . it feel as though Kidsgrove be be treat like the poor relative , leave behind while other area move forward . roundabout in place like Talke Pits by the old Normid look unloved and neglect . some old and disabled people tell I that they fear leave their own home because of how unsafe the pavement be . for example , on Chester Road in Talke , resident have to walk in the road as a break pavement have be fence off by the Conservative - lead council for over four year . let I be clear : Conservative - lead Staffordshire county council be fail Kidsgrove , and that be not okay . however , just over the border in Stoke - on - Trent , we have see a very different story . since Labour take control of the council two year ago , the city have deliver a marked step change in how we deal with pothole . the new administration make road repair a clear priority , and the response speak volume . back in 2023 , about 7 , 500 defect be repair . a year later , that figure rise to over 13 , 000 : a 76 % increase in just one year under a Labour council . when the council pledge to fix 6 , 000 defect in six month , it not only meet the target but beat it , deliver 6 , 500 repair in four month . that be the difference that a Labour council make . under the leadership of Jane Ashworth , Stoke - on - Trent city council have also increase its own capital investment in highway by more than 10 % this past year , despite the financial pressure face council up and down the country , because it know that the people of Stoke - on - trent deserve well than the crumble road we inherit from the previous Conservative Administration . the Labour Government be now step up to help , fix the mess leave behind from those 14 year . stoke - on - Trent will receive more than £ 9 million and Staffordshire county council more than £ 19 million in new Government transport funding . it be vital that we see the result of that in Kidsgrove . let we not forget that , back in 2022 , the people of Kidsgrove put their faith in conservative county councillor , believe that they would be strong voice for our area . sadly , those councillor appear to have go awol , leave the resident behind . resident in Kidsgrove deserve well than that . they deserve to know that their voice be be hear and that the money be there to put thing right . I welcome the extra funding for both Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent , but this can not be about money alone ; it must also be about delivery . as we have see in Stoke - on - Trent and across the country , where the Conservatives fail to deliver , labour step up to pick up the piece and get to work . I hope that the resident of Kidsgrove and the Talke and Red Street division will remember this as we approach the county council election next month . I say to Ministers and the Secretary of State : keep back innovative council to get the basic right , include the Labour - lead Stoke - on - Trent city council . every journey matter , and Kidsgrove should never again be treat like the poor relative . as long as I be the MP for Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , I will continue to stand up for my local resident . in my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby , the view take your breath away . sadly , so do the pothole when your car hit one — not just when it happen , but when the repair bill arrive . accord to the RAC , the cost of pothole damage to vehicle be around £ 600 on average , with more severe repair cost considerably more . pothole do not just damage car ; they damage people . one constituent have tell I that when his disabled father be drive to the doctor or to hospital appointment , it be almost inevitable that they hit a pothole on the way , which cause he pain . another scarborough constituent tell I that the journey she need to take to York hospital to attend the pain clinic be too painful because of the quality of the road , and that she therefore stop make it , despite be in a huge amount of pain . the Conservative - run North Yorkshire council say that keep our road in the good condition for the money it have be one of the big challenge it face , and that be why it be brilliant that the York and North Yorkshire combine authority will soon be receive its share of the Labour Government ' s record £ 1 . 6 billion road maintenance funding . this be the big one - off road maintenance funding settlement that council have ever be give . for Mayor Skaith in York and North Yorkshire , it be £ 62 . 1 million , an increase of £ 16 . 6 million . of course , I have speak to the Mayor about the importance of ensure the quality of repair in my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby . Maple Drive in Scarborough be home to Northstead community primary school . it be a very busy road and it be litter with pothole , which be regularly report to the council use its online tool . Workmen duly arrive to fill the pothole , but my constituent report that they soon reappear , big than before , leave Maple Drive look like a patchwork quilt — but , it have to be say , not a particularly attractive one . it be vital that we abandon the patch - and - run approach and focus on permanent and innovative repair , especially give the cold and increasingly wet winter we encounter on the coast . I welcome the caveat attach to the money , which mean that the combine authority will need to publish annual progress report and prove to the public that the work be be do to a high standard . after year of conservative neglect , driver in Scarborough , Whitby and the village can , thank to this Labour Government , look forward to smooth , safe local road . with the leave of the House , I call shadow Minister Jerome Mayhew . it have be an interesting debate , and one might be forgive for think that there be local election come up . I do not know what cause I to think that , but there be there be something in the air ; let we leave it at that . I be not go to go through everyone ' s contribution , insightful and interesting as each of they be in its own way . I will just pick out a few highlight of the debate . I will start with my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . rather in the theme that I develop early , he refer to Bradford council ' s terrible performance on pothole and say that it be lead to a loss of trust in Labour . in particular , he reference the resident of Ilkley , who go to the trouble of have a referendum on what they should do about the state of the road . he talk about the council ' s proposal to impose speed hump and a 20 mph limit , despite 98 . 3 % of resident vote against it . they be ignore by Labour . then we hear from the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , who be in his place . he also raise the condition of his local road , but he go on to make an interesting point when he complain of what he describe as the " crumb of level up " . I take advantage of the length of the debate to look up what the crumb of level up be , and , in fact , £ 19 . 9 million be direct to Burnley through three town centre scheme . that be an achievement of the excellent former colleague of mine , Antony Higginbotham , who be an understated but amazingly effective Member of Parliament . I will follow the career of the current Member for Burnley closely to see whether he deliver even a fraction of that for the people of Burnley . my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) show off about the length of his road , which certainly put mine to shame . he be another advocate for the JCB Pothole Pro , say that 1 , 889 repair have be undertake in six month . but what he really expose be the repeat failure of the SNP , which have cut funding north of the border , and the lack of interest show in this debate from SNP Members in this place , as we can see from their empty Benches . the shadow Minister be make a gallant effort to rattle through the fantastic contribution that we have hear tonight . will he take this opportunity to congratulate Bracknell Forest council and its Labour administration for the £ 5 million investment over four year in pothole repair ? I be happy to commend any council , of whatever colour , that get on top of its pothole . I be about improve the quality of life for the resident of this United Kingdom . I make no bone about it : if Bracknell Forest council be improve the pothole in its neck of the wood , that be great , and the same be true of Conservative - lead council . in his exposure of the SNP ' s failure , my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk be join by the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) and for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . they agree that the SNP be fail the people of Scotland . I will take this opportunity , as I be ask by the hon . member for Edinburgh South West , to highlight the need for wheelchair access on pavement . that be a very important consideration . the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) make a speech that reinforce the reputation he have already earn in this House . we hear contribution from the hon . member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , and then we hear from the hon . member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) , who , as I should have mention early , also blame the SNP for fail motorist . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , who make an expert intervention , lever in a reference to Romford during a speech that be entirely about scottish issue . I learn an important lesson : he gain the maximum impact from the minimum amount of time in the Chamber — if only the rest of we have follow his example . there be contribution from the hon . member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) and for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , as well as the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , who refer to the power of mayor . that give I an opportunity to make a shameless plug for the conservative candidate for mayor of Doncaster , Nick Fletcher , who be a former colleague and very good friend of mine . he will be the good leader for Doncaster . there be further contribution from the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) and the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) — we all miss Jonathan Gullis in this place — and , finally , the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . I open this debate for the Opposition by talk about the need for predictable long - term funding , which be a key issue . I wish to draw a quote to the House ' s attention : " british people be bored of see their politician aimlessly point at pothole with no real plan to fix they " . that quote be not from I , but from the Prime Minister . he be right , and he identify the problem , but he have go on to make it bad . [ interruption . ] well , I would love to be correct . I will give this Minister the opportunity to confirm yesterday ' s calculation from the Local Government Association , which say that the Government ' s action , through their national insurance contribution tax grab from local authority , will reduce their ability to fund road and other important matter by £ 1 . 1 billion . do she agree with the Local Government Association , which be of course an independent organisation ? secondly , will she confirm that the Government will increase vehicle excise duty to the tune of £ 1 . 7 billion over the next five year , and whether that dwarf the funding that Labour have so far announce for road improvement ? it be not too late . the Government could admit that they be wrong to shorten the timeframe for investment in road infrastructure . they could today commit to a 10 - year funding plan . they could take this opportunity to reassure local authority about how their funding will be receive , allow they to increase the efficiency of their pothole repair programme . they could take this opportunity to deliver the long - term funding that our road network need . I look forward to the imminent announcement from the Minister . it be clear that local road maintenance be an issue that affect every one of we , and that our constituent care about deeply . I be grateful to all hon . member who have speak up on behalf of their constituent . I assure they that the Government get it and be determined to do something about it . there be too many contribution for I to mention they all , but my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) highlight why it be important that local council be require to publish report on their plan . we want people to know if their local council be choose not to spend the extra funding that we be provide on fix their cratered , potholed , pimple road . I assure she and other member of the Transport Committee that work be already under way on a complete review of the guidance — the code of practice on well - manage highway infrastructure , to give it its full name . I be really pleased that my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) highlight the innovation that have be adopt by Stoke - on - Trent ' s Labour council and its highway department — invest in AI to properly understand and monitor its road network and use the Pothole Pro to undertake long - last repair . I be really sorry to hear that Conservative Staffordshire county council be not as responsive to the concern of my hon . friend ' constituent who be call for investment in road safety . as my hon . friend the Members for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) rightly remind we , staffordshire resident can do something about that problem by vote Labour on 1 May , as can resident in Derbyshire , Northumberland , Hertfordshire , Lancashire and many other part of the country . I be grateful to scottish colleague for their contribution . it be disappointing to hear that the SNP Government be not act to tackle the state of Scotland ' s road , as this Government be in England and my labour colleague be in Wales . the scottish people deserve well . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) raise the important issue of pavement parking , as do other , and he be right to do so , because it contribute to our broken pavement , which be so unsafe for many elderly and disabled people . the previous Government promise action for almost a decade and do nothing . we plan to respond to the 2020 consultation and set out our policy in this area . when I tell people that I be the road Minister , I can pretty much guarantee that the first question they will ask be , " what be you do to fix my street ? " it be not surprising that this issue be so often raise with we when we be out and about in our constituency . the appalling state of our local road and pavement be all too visible to we every single day . as we have hear time and again in this debate , it be unsafe for pedestrian , cyclist and biker , it make motorist ' live a misery and it be hold back economic growth . the shadow Minister suggest that thing be bad in 2006 than under his government , but accord to the RAC pothole index , driver be nearly 40 % more likely to have a pothole - relate breakdown in 2024 than they be under the last Labour Government . will the Minister give way ? not right now , as the hon . Gentleman have already have an opportunity to speak on this issue . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can you give I some advice ? where the Minister have misquote I and refuse to give way , what step can I take to correct the record ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . I think that be a matter of debate , and it be now on the record . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the Secretary of State say early , this Government inherit crumble road with local highway authority struggle to stay on top of an ever - increase backlog of maintenance . of course , there be many reason for that , include the weather and the increase volume and weight of traffic use our road , but it be abundantly clear that the funding provide by the previous Government be simply not enough to allow local authority to deal with the problem . no one know this well than Karen Shore , our labour candidate in Runcorn and Helsby , who serve for many year as the cabinet member for highway on her local council . as she and we remember , the Tories make promise for 14 year but , in reality , any funding uplift be short - lived and never fully materialise . it be perhaps not surprising that the conservative Benches have be so empty during this debate . this Government be determined to ensure that thing will be different , and we will do well . do the Minister know whether any Reform mp have constituent with pothole issue ? of course , we would not know because they be not here . my hon . friend make an important point , and people can see for themselves which party be on the side of motorist and road user . we have provide an extra £ 500 million in the current financial year , on top of the previous Government ' s fund baseline and the Network North money for 2024 - 25 . it be a huge increase . for most authority , it mean around 36 % or 37 % more than last year , and of course it be just the start . as many hon . member have observe today , a one - off uplift will not fix all the problem — it be never go to . however , through the spending review , we be determined to secure a long - term funding settlement to allow local highway authority to plan ahead with confidence . strangely , the only time the previous Government promise long - term funding be nine month before the general election , know full well that they have not put any cash aside to pay for it . we be determined to ensure that the extra funding we be provide genuinely lead to extra spending by local authority , rather than simply allow they to put less of their own funding into highway maintenance . that be exactly why we be introduce the extra reporting requirement that the Secretary of State set out . the information that council publish in June will shine a spotlight on this issue in a way that have not happen before . it will allow local people to see for themselves what repair and resurface their council be plan , and how this compare with other local authority . it will help the Department and the public to understand matter such as which authority be put their own funding into the pot , and which be do the most to prepare their network for the wetter winter that we be already see . I welcome the announcement on well transparency in how local government be spend money on pothole , but the challenge I have in the Bradford district be that , accord to the answer to a freedom of information request , only 4 % of highway spending over six year be spend in the Keighley and Ilkley constituency . the vast majority of the highway spending have be spend within Bradford city centre . how will the Government ensure that , across a local authority area , there be fairness in the amount of highway spending allocate across the whole district , rather than just on city centre project ? this Government believe in devolution . it be for local council , elect by local people , to decide their own priority . I know we have spend a lot of time talk about pothole this evening , and despite all the attention they get and the headline they generate , pothole be only a small part of what local highway authority be deal with . local highway authority have to look after complex network of pavement , cycle lane , bridge , tunnel , lighting column , drainage channel , culvert , retain wall and much else besides . pothole be just the tip of a very large iceberg , but they be the thing that be most visible to road user , whether they be in a car , on a bike , or be jarred while sit on a bus . yes , we be ask local authority to give we their good estimate of the number of pothole they have fill in recent year . we also want they to tell we what they be do to shift their focus to long - term preventive maintenance , because avoid pothole form in the first place be , as the Public Accounts Committee recognise , generally much well value for money than temporarily patch the same pothole again and again once it have become a safety - critical problem . let I move on to street work and to what we be do to respond to the complaint that our road often seem to be dig up again and again by utility company in an unco - ordinate way . it be the responsibility of the highway authority to co - ordinate any work take place on its road . the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) rightly describe the cost of fail to do so for local people and business . we be committed to ensure that the proper policy framework be in place to enable authority to co - ordinate and plan road and street work effectively . my hon . friend the Members for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) and for Stafford will be pleased to hear that we have recently announce that we will be do more to hold utility to account for disruptive work . we will be double fix penalty notice to increase the level of deterrent they provide and improve compliance . charge will also be apply at weekend and on bank holiday to reduce congestion and disruption during those time . lane rental can help highway authority to reduce the impact of work take place on the busy road at the busy time . scheme allow authority to charge utility up to £ 2 , 500 per day for work on those road , encourage company to work smarter . we know that many more council be develop lane rental scheme , and we plan to update our guidance to help they develop those scheme . we have announce change that mean that highway authority will be require to spend at least 50 % of surplus fund raise from lane rental on road maintenance . to conclude , I repeat my thank to all hon . member who have contribute to what have be a rich and positive debate . we all want to see an improvement to the state of our local road , pavement and other part of our highway network . I doubt that this will be the last time we discuss pothole , but this Government be determined to give local authority the tool and resource they need to get on top of the problem . we want local council to be more transparent about what they be do with taxpayer ' money , and we want they to follow good practice . we want council to learn from each other and benchmark each other ' s performance , so that the overall standard of delivery be drive up . get on top of the backlog in local highway maintenance be a high priority for this Government . we recognise that there be tough choice here for council , but get more pothole fix be a manifesto commitment and one we be determined to deliver . we have hit the ground run but I know that there be a lot more still to do . I will say more in a few month ' time about the long term funding outlook for all local authority . we look forward to work with council over the month ahead to ensure that our funding uplift be make a real difference to all our constituent . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider road maintenance . business without Debate Housing , Communities and local government committee order , that Andrew Lewin be a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) East midland : Local Authorities and Economic Growth Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) thank you for the opportunity to speak in this evening ' s debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for be here to respond to the debate . as my constituency neighbour , I know he be as passionate about Nottingham , Nottinghamshire and the east midland as I be . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests regard my unpaid membership of two local authority . ahead of important local election across the east midland , I be grateful to have this opportunity to lay out the importance of council to our economy . growth be this Government ' s no . 1 priority . it will pay for our local service , our social security , from state pension to universal credit , and our national defence . the Government be right to focus on growth . under the last government , we suffer a lost decade . growth , income and opportunity be flat , and the east midland suffer as a result . the gap between where we should have be on growth and where we be represent billion of pound that could have be spend on essential public service . the east midland have be at the forefront of that decline , as a result of conservative mismanagement . our economy in the east midland use to be strong , but deindustrialisation , a lack of investment and regional disparity in public spending have leave we lag behind other part of the United Kingdom . the midland be the industrial heartland of this nation . we have so much potential . we be the region that be most connected to the entire UK , with a distinctive mix of engineering , manufacturing , construction and science , but we now struggle to find the job , transport and opportunity that we have before . a lot of that come from lack of investment , include a lack of investment in our local council . the east midland receive the low level of spending per person across the United Kingdom . we receive the low level of capital spending and total spending . the fact speak for themselves : over the past 14 year , the east midland be level down by the conservative party . that inequity leave our local government , our public service and our infrastructure investment billion of pound short . I commend the hon . member for secure this debate and he be right to highlight the issue , but the growth commission set up by the mayor be key to investment and the east midland must make the most of the freeport it enjoy , which the Chancellor announce just a few week ago . that give hope and vision for the future , and it be important to underline those possibility . with great respect to the Conservatives , they promise we a freeport in Northern Ireland but they fail to deliver it . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it would be great if the current Government would designate a freeport for Northern Ireland ? that be essential . as be show in the east midland , Government support be an essential component for economic growth that sow into the wealth of the whole of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman be right to pay testament to the Chancellor and the Labour Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , for unlock nearly £ 1 billion in growth and investment from the freeport at East Midlands airport . he know Northern Ireland politic far well than I do , but I think my hon . friend on the Treasury Bench will have be listen closely to his powerful argument on behalf of his constituent . I wish he well with his campaign . under the previous Conservative Government , we hear a lot of talk about level up , but certain local area be favour over other , while the rest of we wonder when it would be our turn at the table . I welcome this Labour Government ' s change to that approach : less selective , no long pit area against area , and with a genuine desire to grow every part of the United Kingdom . our labour mayor , Claire Ward , have start work with the Government to find area to grow the local economy . in the past year , she secure £ 200 million of transport investment that will grow our economy by allow people to get about our region more easily ; she secure £ 160 million for the east midland investment zone , to attract new investment and create job ; and she secure the brownfield housing fund , which will build 1 , 400 new home . however , she be hold back by the previous Government ' s piecemeal approach to devolution . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . I be recently in discussion with the manage director of a local small and medium - sized enterprise base on Merlin Way in Ilkeston in my constituency . he express great frustration at the barrier to growth that his firm experience with planning , high building cost and uncertainty . do my hon . friend agree that devolution via empower regional mayor represent the solution to those problem and a route to prosperity through growth ? my hon . friend be a good friend and a powerful advocate for his constituent . he be right that devolution in the east midland need to go far and fast , because area such as Greater Manchester and the west midland be much far ahead on their journey . give the East Midlands mayoral authority trailblazer status would see a turbocharge approach to skill , investment and growth in our area . give Mayor Claire Ward an integrated funding settlement across local growth , place , transport , skill , housing and more to work with local authority such as mine in Gedling would really get our economy move . that approach have be prove elsewhere . we should not need to wait any long in the east midland for power over our own future , but mayor and combined authority be only one part of local government across the east midland . Borough , county and unitary council often do the overlook , often - ignore hard yard that provide growth in our community . the Government recognise that to grow the economy , they must work hand in hand with business , but they also have to work hand in hand with local government . public service be essential for social and economic security . vital service such as education , housing , healthcare and transport contribute to the economic productivity of the region , and local authority provide the good investment in local area . the Local Government Association find that council in the east midland contribute directly to 20 % of local gdp through project that promote business growth , job creation and regional investment . local authority be key enabler for the Government ' s promise around transport , housing , skill and growth . the Government be rightly reform the planning system to allow council planner to do their job , but every single one of the 1 . 5 million house build under this Government will have be approve by a council planner . local authority worker will be instrumental in the roll - out of free breakfast club across school . we have see the impact on growth and economic confidence if simple thing such as our bin collection go wrong . our local government worker keep our community and this country tick . they be all hero . my plea to the Government be simple : do not ignore local government , local government finance or local government staff , and continue to invest in those area . I commend the hon . member for what he be say . the east midland be a vital region of our country , but I caution he slightly about want a regional mayor to take power upwards . in Greater London , our experience be that power in local authority be actually well . we want local money spend on local people ' s priority . with a regional mayor , the hon . Gentleman may find that the money be not spend on the priority he hope for , but that it go up to one bureaucracy and the priority of local people be often ignore . that be our experience in the London borough of Havering . I thank the hon . member for share his view with I , but I must say that it be not a view we share in the east midland . we have a partnership approach with our Labour Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , work with brilliant local labour council . I would have a slight degree of sympathy for he if he have not be come here for the last 14 year and vote for cut to local council in the east midland , take 60p out of every £ 1 of their budget . ultimately , where we have good , soundly manage local authority , with boundary that local people understand and prefer , such as in my borough of Gedling , do we really want local authority staff to be focus on a multi - year reorganisation process , or do we want they to be get on with the job and grow their local economy ? the Government have rightly point out that certainty be essential to economic growth , so may I be so bold as to suggest that certainty in local government — whether it be a planner know that they have a job in the future or a local authority know that it will exist in two year ' time — be also essential ? my constituent have tell I loud and clear that they do not want to see a change to their local council . it be important to I that my constituent ' voice be hear and listen to in this Chamber , include in this debate . I share their pride in have a well - run local council in Gedling borough council , with low council tax , low level of debt and decent , deliver public service , and I will argue for that to the hilt . it would be remiss of I to speak in this debate without highlight some local example of how thing can go terribly wrong , and how they affect my constituent . Conservative - control Nottinghamshire county council might be the bad council in the country for road repair . over 25 % of Nottinghamshire ' s minor road require repair last year , yet Nottinghamshire county council only get around to repair 2 . 3 % of they . out of every 10 pothole , conservative in Nottinghamshire manage to fix less than one . if we need driver for any future moon landing , the resident of Nottinghamshire may well volunteer to be first ; with the number of crater that we have to dodge on our local road just to get about our daily life , everyone in Nottinghamshire be an expert in dodge pothole . navigate the pothole - ride road of Nottinghamshire have go beyond a joke . it be a daily misery for the people of Gedling , who I serve , but it also impact our economy . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate and on his powerful comment about the pothole in Nottinghamshire , but accord to the RAC , the bad area for pothole be conservative - run derbyshire . do he agree that it be about time that we get council that will work with the Government to ensure we have the road that people need — road that be not full of pothole ? I thank my hon . friend for make that powerful argument on behalf of her Derby North constituent . have a Conservative - run county council be something we have in common , and in less than a month ' s time , the resident of our respective constituency will have a chance to turn the page on that failure and elect Labour council that will turn a corner . pothole on road impact our economy , because if a trader ' s vehicle hit a pothole and need to be in the repair shop for a week , that be a week in which that trader be not do business . their business suffer , their family suffer , and our national economy suffer too . one of my constituent , a new mother , be cross the road with her newborn daughter in a pram when that pram snag on a pothole , cause the mother to trip over , and her newborn baby almost end up in the middle of a busy road . she write to I that people slam on their brake and jump out of their car to check whether her baby have be badly hurt . the mother and the baby have to spend the afternoon at the hospital that day , when they should have be shop and meet friend on the local high street . even without the use of a car , pothole be hurt growth and , at time , physically hurt our constituent . if a parent hit a pothole in their own vehicle and suffer hundred of pound of damage , that be money that be not be spend in our local shop or on our local high street . despite record investment by this Labour Government in fix pothole — £ 1 . 6 billion — the Conservatives on Nottinghamshire county council can not get a grip , and not just on pothole . the county council be also fail to issue education , health and care plan on time , with nearly 1 , 000 request for an EHC plan issue late between January and October . compare with the previous year , 6 % few annual review of EHC plan be conduct . the impact of Conservative - lead Nottinghamshire county council fail to deliver on special educational need and disability service , and in many way go backwards , be that some child be not get the education they need . that be force some parent in my constituency and across the east midland to stay at home to school their child , rather than go to work . that hurt their livelihood , it hurt their opportunity to contribute to the economy , and as a result it hurt growth , too . in contrast , labour - run Gedling borough council be invest in our high street by maintain its popular two hour ' free parking policy across all high street car park . labour - run Gedling create the beautiful 365 - acre gedle country park , a boost to the local economy . gedle Labour save and refurbish the cherished Bonington theatre , and be invest in CCTV across community to keep people safe . the Arnold market place be an example of how to do regeneration well , lead by Gedling Labour . I be proud to be part of it on gedle borough council , and it be thing like that that will boost our economy . beyond the high street , Gedling borough council have show that invest in our park and green space , our theatre and our leisure centre and keep our cultural centre open invite local people into the area , which support local business and growth . that be why I be so proud of the hard work be do by our labour candidate in Gedling : Sarah o ' Connor and Henry Wheeler in Arnold North , John Clarke and Liz Clunie in Arnold South , Jim Creamer and Errol Henry in Carlton West , Cate Carmichael in Carlton East and Dean Wilson in Calverton . the contrast could not be clear . under the Nottinghamshire Conservatives , we can have yet more failure and poorly manage service , strangle our local economy and fail to fix our broken road . under Gedling Labour , we can have pride restore to our community by hard - work councillor , grow the economy , bring back community police , support our high street and fix the pothole . that be the choice on offer next month at the local election , and that be the choice that resident in Gedling can make . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) for secure this debate . I can assure he that pothole be as bad in Conservative - run derbyshire as they be in Nottinghamshire . our area have be shut out of the conversation around economic growth for too long . I be excited to see the change with a Labour East Midlands Mayor and a Labour Government , who recently confirm £ 15 million for Bolsover district council . that will see eight project deliver to boost business and tourism across Pinxton , Shirebrook and Bolsover . however , one area desperately need investment so that we can unlock our economic potential : transport . some 80 % of resident in Bolsover live in transport - relate social exclusion . that compare with 18 % of resident across England . it be the second - high figure in the whole country . from South Normanton to Barlborough , transport issue affect growth and have a huge impact on everyday life . People in Clowne be desperate for a bus to Chesterfield royal hospital . just last week , Morton be cut off completely from public transport after its bus be first cancel and then reinstate , but with Morton take off the route . how can people get to work if there be no bus service to take they ? how do parent get their little one to childcare ? why would a business invest in area where people can not get to their employer ? who be to blame ? derbyshire county council must take responsibility . the Conservative - run council have a bus service improvement plan , but bus continue to fail resident across Bolsover . bus service be reduce , village be cut off and bus be either late or do not turn up at all . rural community rely on bus for growth , for work and for leisure . Conservative Derbyshire county council be let we down . Bolsover deserve well and I urge anyone who agree to make that know at the ballot box on 1 May . rise — before I call anybody else , may I just gently remind member that they need to have ask permission to speak from the Member in charge , the Minister and I ? I know that some member have contact the Speaker ' s Office , but may I ask those who have not contact the Member in charge and the Minister to remain seated ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) for secure the debate , and for raise both the economic challenge and the opportunity face by our community in the east midland . he and I have be friend for a long time and have talk about these issue a great deal , as member of our council in our day and , perhaps , over a pint in town from time to time , so it be a personal thrill for I to be able to talk about they here , on the occasion of what I believe be his first Adjournment debate . I agree with much of what he say , and I shall now say a little about the potential and some of the investment that the Government be make to change the trend that he describe . the midland have the large regional economy outside London , and there be plenty for we to support — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) our colleague will have hear a lot from we about the primacy of growth . it be the Government ' s firmest belief that economic growth should reach all community and drive a real rise in living standard throughout the country , particularly in area that have be leave behind follow year of decline investment . I agree with my hon . friend ' s analysis of the lack of investment in the east midland in recent year , but I also agree with his analysis of our potential : our resource and our heritage , particularly our industrial heritage , as well as the benefit that our location bring . we know that there be a lot to do and a lot to back in our part of the world . let I now talk about some of the action that we be take as a Government . I be delighted and proud when last month , as a cornerstone of our plan for change , we announce our new plan for neighbourhood , a £ 1 . 5 billion programme to ignite renewal and fight deprivation , revitalise local community . the east midland be at the heart of that programme , with 10 area select to receive a long - term investment of up to £ 20 million of funding and 20 year of support to help they to reach their full potential . recipient include Boston , Skegness and Spalding in Lincolnshire , Chesterfield in Derbyshire and , in Nottinghamshire , Worksop , Newark - on - Trent , Mansfield , Ashfield , Clifton and indeed Carlton , in my hon . friend ' s constituency . they will all be worthy beneficiary of this fund to rebuild , restore and rejuvenate neglect infrastructure and fractured community . we also believe that drive growth that be sustainable , innovative and green be an anchoring part of our mission to be a clean energy superpower . we in the east midland , with our heritage in the energy realm , be poise , and brilliantly place , to lead the green - energy revolution . in January we announce a record £ 410 million investment to develop cutting - edge clean energy , which will include the creation of a world - lead step — spherical tokamak for energy production — prototype fusion energy plant in Nottinghamshire . that investment put the UK at the forefront of fusion delivery and firmly on the path to net zero , and recognise the east midland region as a pioneer of the clean energy of the future . as for housing , in October we allocate nearly £ 17 million of the £ 68 million brownfield land release funding to the east midland . a dozen scheme in Derby , derbyshire , Nottingham and Nottinghamshire have be identify for grant to support the construction of nearly 1 , 500 home in the region . these housing development will revitalise underused site in our city and community , and work be already begin in some location . one housing announcement be particularly close to my heart : I be proud to say from this Dispatch Box , as a Nottingham MP and a Minister , that follow the announcement on 31 March , we be deliver a significant milestone boost to the regeneration of Nottingham city centre through the acquisition by Homes England of the Broad Marsh site . that feel good . many people in Nottingham will say that it be overdue by year if not decade , and I would not fight that contention , but it be a huge step forward for the city . the project will create 1 , 000 home and up to 20 , 000 square metre of retail , office and community space , and will generate about 2 , 000 full - time job , complement the establishment of the Nottingham college city hub next door , the opening of the central library , the bus station , the new car park , and the completion of the Green Heart public realm . as I have say , this have take too long , but it will be a wonderful development for our community . my hon . Friend mention the importance of local leadership , and I commend the leadership of Councillors Neghat Khan and Ethan Radford in drive this development forward . my hon . Friend also mention the important work of the East Midlands combine county authority , and I entirely agree with he about that . as a new government , we have make a commitment : we fundamentally believe in a new settlement in this country , and at the heart of that be the transfer of money and power from this place , and from Whitehall , to town hall . at the forefront will be our devolved Administrations and combined authority . the anchor investment fund of £ 9 . 5 million will support key project to break down barrier to opportunity and significantly boost economic growth in our region . the funding will be allocate to project that invest in home , job , manufacturing , clean energy and greener space in order to create thrive local place . a number of specific project be set to benefit , include the south Derbyshire growth zone . we have provide a £ 1 . 5 million investment for a new junction on the A50 trunk road , which will unlock plan to build 4 , 500 home and nearly 3 . 5 million square foot of commercial floor space . the Trent clean energy supercluster in Bassetlaw will receive £ 3 million to advance the transformation of three former coal - fire power station along the Trent into a world - lead clean energy and innovation centre — again , lean into our past and help we build our future . Derby will receive £ 3 . 75 million to transform priority area in the city , create a vibrant , sustainable and accessible urban quarter . Derby city council be work with partner and begin to deliver transformative regeneration . Vaillant Live , a new 3 , 500 - capacity performance venue , have just open . a refurbish market hall be about to open , a new university business school be nearly finish , and the Government be deliver £ 20 million to our two theatre . do the Minister agree that regenerate our city centre be key to unlock economic growth across the region , and can he outline how this Government be support council leader to generate growth in their local area ? my hon . Friend add a very thoughtful and well - judge counterweight to my love letter to Nottingham city centre on behalf of Derby city centre . perhaps she know it be just too far beyond I to overcome our traditional rivalry , but she do so well than I could have do . Derby have some very exciting day ahead because of the investment , and because of the creativity of local leader and the local community in enhance that space . on the final part of her question , it be important that we get they the tool and resource to do so . I will talk a little about local government finance in a second , but we want to make sure that council have the power — whether through high street rental auction or similar — to shape their community . the Minister talk about the dichotomy between Nottingham and Derby . as the Member of Parliament for Erewash , which sit at the halfway mark between the two , I feel oblige to come in at this point . I have see at first hand the massive improvement that the Labour administration have make at Erewash borough council in the two short year since it take control , from encourage solar farm and help community event to liberalise the grant programme for business and introduce £ 2 million of new investment to Erewash . will the Minister join I in congratulate the fantastic Erewash Labour group and Erewash borough council more broadly ? I do not think we could litigate in the remain 22 minute whether Long Eaton be in Nottingham or Derby . my hon . friend be perhaps well qualified than I to say so — but when I go to see he , I see a lot of Forest shirt . he be right to highlight the work of his council . it have not have very long in power , but it have take a very progressive and ambitious approach to shape place , and I be always proud to work with James and colleague . I will mention a couple more investment . Infinity Park in Derby will receive £ 1 . 5 million for a research and development facility within EMCCA ' s investment zone to support the advanced manufacturing and nuclear sector . North East Derbyshire will receive £ 1 million to create southern access to the Avenue site , improve access for vehicle and pedestrian and enable future development . these development show the vital role of devolution in unlock the potential of regeneration across region by put investment back into the hand of local people . emcca have not even have its first year , but the impact have be monumental , which give we the perfect opportunity to recognise and reflect on the outstanding leadership of Mayor Claire Ward . she have have less than a year in post , but she have make a great impact in all the area I have talk about . project be be develop on brownfield site because of her leadership , and the reality be that decision make in the east midland should be take by the people of the east midland . that be why we will continue to back Claire . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention freeport , and that be just another sign of our wanting to get the power and resource to emcca so that Claire can show that leadership and we can all collectively drive forward the region . my hon . friend the Member for Gedling make very important point about integrate settlement . he will not be surprised to hear that Mayor Claire make exactly the same point to I and other Ministers on a daily basis , and the point be well make . turn to the important contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , I think the insight about transport be well play through our combine authority . again , it be incumbent on we at this Dispatch Box to deliver the right power and resource to do so . there be of course the age - old problem — I say that , but it be actually quite a new one — of an east midland mayoralty that do not quite cover all of the east midland . I be delighted that the region be on the cusp of its second devolution success , with the upcoming election in less than a month of a Mayor for the Greater Lincolnshire combine county authority . that will bring £ 750 million of investment over 30 year , with an initial £ 20 million of capital funding to drive place - base economic regeneration . that be a great step forward and part of — something we be make good on in the english devolution White Paper — our commitment to a significant shift of power and resource from this place to local community . when we talk about devolution , we can not forget Leicestershire , which be in a devolution desert . my constituency of North West Leicestershire border both Nottinghamshire and derbyshire . we have an international airport , but , significantly , we have no passenger rail . do the Minister agree that actual and effective public transport be key to unlock growth across the whole east midland ? I very much do agree . it should be a point of great pride — and , again , it be one of our huge asset — that we have the big pure freight airport in the country . frankly , our geographical location mean that all journey involve the transport of good tend to come through our region at some point , but with the airport they do so very directly . my hon . friend raise , as my hon . friend the Member for Gedling do , the fact that one of our challenge in the east midland be link up our opportunity by have the right access and the right public transport . I think that be absolutely crucial , and it must be the next dimension of our effort . have have exactly the same conversation with Andy Reed — formerly of this parish — who be chair of the business board in Leicester and Leicestershire , I want to reassure my hon . friend the Member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) of our commitment to make sure that , although there be devolution gap at the moment , people in Leicestershire can also secure a bright and more sustainable future for their community . we will work with they in whatever way we can . my hon . friend the Member for Gedling be exactly right in say that we can not forget the importance of our local council . I be very proud to be a former member of my council . have see how hard it have be for local authority in recent year , I be also very proud that , at the recent Budget , we start the journey of rebuild local finance . I think we will start to see much well service as a result — and we have to — and people will feel that change . before I close , I want to cover my hon . friend ' s point , which he say with a degree of boldness , about local government reorganisation . have make the case strongly for the devolution of power , as I think I do , my hon . friend will know that my belief be that decision be well take locally than in this place , and we will certainly shift power in that regard . I think we must have a degree of responsibility in that where we add tier of government , we rationalise other tier . I be think of part of my constituency that have five tier of government : they have an elect mayor ; they have I and this place ; they have a county council ; they have a borough council ; and they have a town council . I do not think it be unreasonable that we should want to bring forward that reorganisation , but my hon . Friend make very significant point about the importance of get the voice of local community into the room , and the moment for that be now . in the next few month to November , when we expect proposal to be submit , we have an opportunity to have those conversation . we be at the proposal stage , and we be go to make sure that community have the right insight to make the right judgment about their future , and we will facilitate and be part of those conversation . to conclude , the thing that frustrate I about my city and our region be that we have have four really difficult decade — there be no doubt about that — and we see that in the physical and societal scar all across the area and in the memory we have live with . for too long , we have talk about — or even bad , be talk about — in the deficit : what be wrong with we ; what we do not have . I be really pleased with the spirit of this debate . the spirit of debate about our region over the past year , and certainly in the new Parliament , be one that talk about the opportunity in the east midland , which be huge and abundant . we as a Government will back they , but most importantly it will be local leader , the elect mayor , council leader , local Members of Parliament and the local community who shape , deliver and drive that . I think that be the right way around and I can not wait to see what we , collectively , can achieve . question put and agree to . House adjourn .