Speaker ' s Statement before we come to today ' s business , I wish to make a brief statement . I previously indicate to the House that I intend to take specialist legal advice follow the collapse of the prosecution of two individual accuse of espionage for the chinese authority . member will be aware of my continue disappointment about what have happen in this case and my desire to explore all possible option for action . I inform the House that I have take that advice , and it appear that there be no other legal route to be pursue by the House in these case . no doubt other be consider whether option remain open to they , and if we can help , I be sure we will . I know that future allegation will be deal with under new legislation . I also take this opportunity to remind member of the update security guidance issue last month . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Defence Industrial Base what step he be take to help strengthen the defence industrial base . what step he be take to help strengthen the defence industrial base . what step he be take to help strengthen the defence industrial base . I know the whole House be unite in condemn the dreadful attack on the LNER train from Doncaster to London over the weekend , and our thought be with the victim , their family and their friend . this be also the period in which we mark remembrance . thank you , Mr Speaker , for your ceremony in open the garden of remembrance for constituency this morning . we will wear our poppy with pride , and we will remember they . in September , we publish our Government ' s new defence industrial strategy , back by nearly £ 800 million in funding . we be make defence an engine for drive economic growth . we be back british job , back british industry and back british innovation . I recently visit Avocet , an innovative manufacture company base in Holmes Chapel in my constituency . it be look to grow its business by diversify into supply component and material for drone battery production . however , it have express to I the potential for improved support and guidance from the Government in order to break into and thrive in this competitive international market . what step be the Department take to support british manufacturing business such as Avocet ? do he agree that help these organisation will unlock vital opportunity for economic growth ? I do indeed , and my hon . friend be right . firm such as that in her constituency hold the future of our security and our economic growth . that be why we have set up UK Defence Innovation and ringfence it with at least £ 400 million in the Budget this year , with fresh freedom . we have also double to £ 4 billion the amount of money that we will invest in british drone and autonomy over this Parliament . a key ingredient in strengthen the industrial base be the innovation that our company bring to the table . a & M EDM Ltd in my constituency be a specialist engineering company work with aerospace , automotive , Formula 1 and other industry . when I visit recently , it be test a drone engine that it have design and build , with most part be produce in house . what route be available to company such as A & M EDM Ltd to bring that innovation , specialist engineering capacity , and research and development ability to the defence industrial supply chain ? UK Defence Innovation have be set up to transform defence ' s innovation system . one of its priority be to foster collaboration with small and medium - sized firm in field beyond defence , just like A & M EDM Ltd in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I have set out my determination to see Britain become the good place to start , grow and invest in new defence company . it be always good to follow another Member for the Black Country . I be recently very pleased to meet with Babcock International , which be base in Walsall , just over the m6 from my constituency , where it make armoured car . can the Secretary of State comment on future opportunity for defence manufacturing in the Black Country and the wide west midland ? the west midland have a very proud tradition of be at the heart of british invention and engineering , and it have huge potential for the future of defence engineering and invention . in the last year , the Ministry of Defence have spend £ 1 . 7 billion directly into the region , which be the high level for the last 10 year . the Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , meet with the Mayor of the West Midlands just last week to discuss what other opportunity there may be for firm such as that and area such as that of my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) in the west midland . as the Secretary of State know , I have bring a company over from Ukraine to show we what it can do with drone . Us get hold of that technology from Ukraine help we to supply Ukraine , as well as ourselves . however , the key issue I want to ask about be that of rare earth mineral . they be normally discuss in a business context , but they be critical to the defence of the United Kingdom , and have a supply here in this country , directly own by we , must surely be a critical issue . have the Secretary of State look at this issue , talk to his colleague in Government and say , " we need a supply that we produce in our own country and use here " ? the short answer be yes . the slightly long answer be that that we be do so with close ally . we be also do so with Ukraine . the right hon . Gentleman have be one of the voice in this House that have push we to do more with ukrainian industry , and I know he will welcome our groundbreaking agreement with Ukraine , through which it will share for the first time with another country its intellectual property for the critical interceptor drone call Octopus . we will develop that far , manufacture those drone at scale within week and month , and return thousand to Ukraine to help its fight against Putin . the Ministry of Defence spend £ 1 . 2 billion with sme in 2024 - 25 . sadly , though , only 2 . 5 % of that spending go to sme in Scotland , which report extreme difficulty in access those MOD contract . this be an inevitable consequence of the MOD spend more in one region of England than it spend in Wales , Northern Ireland and Scotland put together . do the Secretary of State agree that this be an undesirable outcome , and what step will he take to increase SME expenditure by the MOD in Scotland to at least Scotland ' s per capita share , which be what it contribute to the cost of defence ? the first useful step , of course , would be for the scottish nationalist Government to lift their bar on any support for defence and associated firm . one of the big problem for sme in the defence field in Scotland be that they can not get any support from their own government , despite the big contribution that those sme make to job , opportunity and security , not just for Scotland and the UK . as the Secretary of State say , the defence industrial strategy promise to boost british export success , british business and british job . as such , I be sure he be as excited as I be about the Aeralis bid to replace the Red Arrow Hawk aircraft , which would deliver around 600 skilled job at StandardAero in my constituency . will he ensure that there be an early decision on the replacement of the Hawk aircraft , and that that decision fully reflect the opportunity that exist to create high - value job , drive export , strengthen british sovereign capability , and enable the United Kingdom to design and build its own aircraft ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . like she , I be very excited about the defence industrial strategy , and she be right to urge I to ensure we take an early decision about the replacement of the Hawk trainer . we will , because that be a long - overdue decision that should have be take year ago by the previous Administration and the previous Defence Procurement Minister . I call the shadow Minister . I associate Conservative Members with the Secretary of State ' s remark about the appalling attack in Huntingdon over the weekend . we all know that the Government can not deliver a strong defence industrial base without seriously boost defence spending , yet multiple medium outlet have very recently report that the Secretary of State ' s Department be ask the armed force to make cut of £ 2 . 6 billion this financial year . very simply , can he tell we what will be cut to find the money ? quite simply , we have boost defence investment . we have do so by a record amount since the end of the cold war , and three year early than the Conservatives ' unfunded plan propose . since the election , we have sign over 1 , 000 major contract , 84 % of they with british firm . we have bring £ 1 . 7 billion of foreign direct investment into defence , and we have win major export deal that the Conservatives never manage . on Monday , the Prime Minister and I sign an £ 8 billion deal with Turkey to buy 20 British Typhoons , which will help secure 20 , 000 job in the wide supply chain for the year to come . I would like to hear conservative member welcome that . Armed Forces Families : housing what step he be take to improve housing for armed force family . we be make the most significant commitment and change to armed force housing in 50 year . within six month of the election , we act to end the bad - ever Tory privatisation . we bring 36 , 000 military home back into public ownership , and now we be make a £ 9 billion investment over the next decade to bring those home up to scratch . at the same time , we be supercharge the building of new housing on surplus defence land . these plan be set out in our new defence housing strategy , which we publish today , and a copy of which I will place in the Library of the House . in the week of Remembrance Sunday , it be important to restate that support our armed force and their family be something we should be commit to every day . over the past decade , two third of armed force service family accommodation be allow to fall into such disrepair that it be deem not fit for purpose by the Defence Committee . how will our consumer charter for armed force family ensure that we do provide home fit for hero ? my hon . friend be right to recognise remembrance as a time when we recognise not just the service of those in the past , but those who serve today . we make demand on they that none of we would have to meet . we ask they to deploy at a week ' s notice to the other side of the world , and we ask they to move with their family every few year around the UK . the very last thing they should worry about be whether their wife , husband , partner or kid be live in cold , damp and leaky home . we be end what my hon . Friend say be the Tory scandal of unfit force housing , and we be get Britain build the home that we need on surplus defence land — [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Secretary of State will want to catch my eye for his own question . he should not use up all his ammunition just yet . I welcome the £ 9 billion investment in military housing , but can the Secretary of State reassure member , those serve and their family that responsive repair will not be put on hold in the hope of a new bathroom , kitchen or heating system ? the introduction early this year of a new consumer standard have not just raise the require standard of those repair , but the response when they be need . over the first year of this Government , we have see the number of complaint about force housing more than halve from the high under the previous Government . there will always be complaint ; there will always be problem . we can not fix these problem overnight , but I be determined that we will fix they . I be determine for this to be a nation where we say proudly that we provide home fit for our hero . Defence procurement : sme what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the level of direct procurement from defence sme in the west midland . the role of west midland sme in support of our armed force be vital for our national security . the Ministry of Defence have just publish our regional breakdown of defence spending in the west midland , where we spend £ 1 . 7 billion . that be the high on record , support 7 , 900 job , but it be not enough . we will spend an additional £ 2 . 5 billion extra with sme by 2028 , help to reinforce that defence can be an engine for growth . in Dudley , we have the Pensnett estate , one of the large industrial estate in Europe . it be home to nearly 200 business , include a variety of sme , range from plumbing to steelwork . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that sme in Dudley have the time and the space to bid for contract ? will the Minister agree to hold a roundtable on defence on the Pensnett estate ? I be grateful for the time that my hon . Friend spend talk to I about SME potential in Dudley and across the west midland last week . there be a huge opportunity to direct more of the increase defence budget at british firm , and in particular sme . there be huge potential with the skill base in the west midland . I would be happy to take my hon . friend up on her offer of visit Dudley and get those business more involve in the defence supply chain . the Minister have hear what an amazing set of mid - sized and large business we have in the west midland support defence , but we also have some amazing research university . what more be the MOD look at do to work more closely with our university , get they gear towards support our move to rearm this country ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise the important role that university play . in the defence industrial strategy , publish a few month ago , we set out our ambition to create a defence university alliance , bring together the very good cutting - edge research that be be do in our university . we be work with Universities UK to put that together , and there will be further announcement in short order , but I hope that the university on the right hon . Gentleman ' s patch will participate so that we can grow our economy and keep our nation safe . defence Sector Innovation what step he be take to increase innovation in the defence sector . what step he be take to increase innovation in the defence sector . as we move towards warfighte readiness , the Government be invest more of our rise defence budget in new technology and innovation , and the need for more innovative solution to address emerge challenge be paramount in these dark and more dangerous time . on 1 July we launch UK Defence Innovation , a £ 400 million fund , and we will spend 10 % of the equipment budget on innovative technology that will deliver for defence . what pathway and training programme be minister establish to ensure that young people , such as those in my constituency , can develop the specialist skill that they need in order to become the defence innovator of the future ? be the Minister work with local college , university and defence industry employer to create hub of apprenticeship and career opportunity ? as a fellow south - west MP , I know just how important it be for we to invest in defence skill in the south - west and across the United Kingdom . the defence industrial strategy include the £ 182 million package that we will deliver via defence technical excellence college with our colleague in the Department for Education , but we need to go far , encourage all our defence business — big and small — to invest in skill so that we have the workforce of the future , able to deliver those cut - edge technology . I shall be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss what more we can do in Somerset . while I greatly welcome the focus on innovation , cyber - warfare remain one of the area in which the line of responsibility may at least appear to be less clear . give the threat that be proliferate — both abroad , for instance from Russia and the Sahel , and close to home , even in many of our own in - tray — will the Minister specify where that responsibility for cyber - warfare really lie ? keep our nation safe in the air , on land and at sea require cyber and space capability . defence be attack 90 , 000 time in the cyber domain , which amount to roughly 250 attack a day . that be why we be invest not just in the National Cyber Force but in the defence cyber and electromagnetic force that we be set up , work with our colleague in the private sector , to enhance the ability of defence not only to repel attack on the defence infrastructure but to harden UK resilience in the private and public sector . there be more work between the MOD and the Cabinet Office in that regard , but we need everyone to step up to defend our country in the cyber space , and we can all do something by simply update our operating system , which will make everyone who do so safe and more resilient . may I first associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark about the attack on the train at the weekend ? last week the Ministry of Defence announce the launch of Project Fairfax , which will see a defence technology cluster establish alongside RAF Wyton in my constituency . I thank the Minister for his support in bring the project forward ; it have be warmly receive not only by industry but , crucially , by my constituent , who be excited about the opportunity present by specialist defence career and increase regional growth that will be deliver well via option e of local government reform . what step could he take in give Huntingdonshire the opportunity to create a wide defence ecosystem to meet the eligibility criterion for consideration for funding from the Defence and Security Accelerator ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the tone in which he speak to the nation about the attack that take place in his constituency . he should feel very proud of the first responder from his area who respond to that attack . as for the opportunity that exist in his constituency , I be very pleased to meet he and my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) to look into how , on a cross - party basis , we can seize a real opportunity at RAF Wyton , support activity with local government in order to do so . the defence industrial strategy set out the framework for deliver that opportunity through local and national Government work together with our armed force and the private sector , as well as academia . we will continue those discussion , but the opportunity at RAF Wyton be real , and I be happy to be help the hon . Gentleman to deliver it . can the Minister describe what he be do within his own Department so that his own official actually reward , recognise and engage with innovation ? the acquisition system in the MOD be notoriously bureaucratic , incredibly risk - averse and make it impossible for small company , in particular , to engage with innovative project in the Department . what be he do to get a wholesale transformation of the culture within his Department ? otherwise , all this money will just be waste . I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s critique of the system that we inherit from the previous Government , which frankly be not good enough . we do need to see procurement contracting time reduce , which be why in the defence industrial strategy we set out our ambition to reduce six - year procurement to two year , two - year procurement to one year , and one - year procurement to six month . we be use innovative technology , such as artificial intelligence , to help speed up that transition , and we be open our office of small business growth at the start of next year , which will enable more sme to access defence contract directly . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with ally on military support for Ukraine . what recent discussion he have have with ally on military support for Ukraine . the UK be play a lead role in step up support for Ukraine . this year we be spend the high ever level on military aid to Ukraine through the Ukraine Defence Contact Group , which I chair last month . in this year alone we have manage to get £ 50 billion - worth of pledge of support for Ukraine from the 50 - nation - strong group . tomorrow I will join Defence Ministers in the Joint Expeditionary Force coalition in Norway , where we will confirm a new partnership with Ukraine to strengthen our support far . I strongly welcome the Defence Secretary ' s continued leadership on Ukraine . I visit Estonia in early September , just prior to the incident in which three MiG - 31 russian fighter jet enter estonian airspace and stay for 12 minute , in a far dangerous escalation of tension in the region . even before that incident , the sense I get from the estonian politician I meet be that they be very much on the frontline , and there be deep concern that , if Russia succeed in Ukraine , they will be next . what assurance can the Defence Secretary give that contingency plan be in place to support our NATO ally in the face of continue russian aggression ? I commend my hon . friend , and member on both side of the House who have visit Ukraine . that can give an important sense of support and confidence to those fighting in Ukraine . he be right ; Putin ' s incursion into NATO airspace be reckless and dangerous , and serve only to strengthen the unity of NATO . NATO respond swiftly to those incursion , and I recently extend the UK ' s Typhoon contribution to that Eastern Sentry exercise until the end of the year . the UK remain the framework nation for the forward land force in Estonia — we have almost 10 , 000 UK troop in Estonia . that strengthen NATO ' s deterrence , which be something I will be discuss with JEF Defence Ministers this week in Norway . I welcome the commitment make by the coalition of the willing on further military support for the protection of Ukraine ' s airspace . however , Ukraine continue to endure daily aerial attack target at civil infrastructure , as Russia seek to use the approach winter as a tool of torment . can the Minister clarify what specific air defence capability have be pledge to safeguard Ukraine ' s sky and protect critical infrastructure ? my hon . friend be right ; Putin ' s aerial bombardment of Ukraine be cynical , illegal and target at civilian . that be why we have step up our effort to reinforce Ukraine ' s air defence . this autumn we have deliver more than 200 , 000 round of anti - aircraft ammunition and hundred of air - to - air missile . in September we announce a first - of - its - kind joint programme for the new interceptor drone , the Octopus , which will be produce in the UK and manufacture at scale . we aim to deliver thousand a month back into Ukraine to help defend its sky , defend its city , and defend its energy infrastructure . as we build up towards Remembrance Sunday , do the Secretary of State agree that it be appropriate for we to remember the circumstance in which two world war begin , when democracy be relatively weak in the face of armed autocracy ? therefore , do he agree that the help we give to Ukraine be the good possible guarantee that aggressor will not be embolden to attack other country as well ? I do indeed . if big country believe that they can redraw international boundary by force and get away with it , then no democracy and no state be safe . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that a secure , sovereign Ukraine be central to Europe ' s security in future . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . report in the newspaper indicate that 150 , 000 new russian soldier be be prepare for an onslaught in eastern Ukraine . I do not doubt for one second that the Secretary of State , the Labour Government and this Parliament be commit to do something , but report seem to indicate that other country be slow down on what they give . have he be able to encourage other country to ensure that they replicate what we give ? the answer be yes , through the Ukraine Defence Contact Group — 50 nation that have commit to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . together , we have secure £ 50 billion of pledge of military aid to Ukraine in this year alone , and I be proud of the way that the UK have step in , alongside Germany , to lead that group . it be part of what we be do , with other , to step up support for Ukraine , which will be need even more in the month to come . Drone procurement what step he be take to reduce the time take to procure drone for the armed force . what step he be take to reduce the time take to procure drone for the armed force . the very reason that I leave the military be because the lesson from Ukraine , particularly around uncrewed system , be not be learn within our military . the drone architecture be exceptionally limited , despite our watch a revolution in the character of conflict for about two year . since then , the strategic defence review have step in , with £ 4 billion for autonomous system and a new defence uncrewed system centre . training , tactic , procedure , doctrine and concept be all change to inculcate uncrewed system . I thank the Minister for his answer . the big drone manufacturer in Ukraine , ukrspecsystem , be invest £ 200 million in Britain , open a factory in Mildenhall in the west of my county and create 500 job directly and through the supply chain . however , like all manufacturer , it be face rise energy cost and a tax bill that be likely to go up . if the Minister want great drone capacity in Britain , what conversation be he have with his colleague in the Energy Department and the Business Department to ensure that the whole Government be pull in the same direction ? the uncrewed centre of excellence be try to pull all of Government together to make the system easy to deal with for small and medium - sized enterprise . I pay tribute to Ukrspecsystems , which have be provide drone to Ukraine for the past three year . they have be use to very high effect in that country . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Minister may be aware of Domo Tactical Communications , a drone manufacturer in my constituency that I have raise in write question before . will he uphold the visit that be due to take place by his predecessor before the reshuffle ? what proportion of drone purchase for UK armed force be procure from UK - base drone manufacturer , and what can be do to increase that proportion ? I have be reassure that the Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry will visit the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency to have a look at the factory . from my perspective , we have increase our production of drone for Ukraine — up to 100 , 000 this year alone — and we be increase the procurement of drone into the british military by thousand . I be very proud that the Government have support Ukraine through the provision of drone . I recently visit Radio Design , a company in Saltaire in my constituency that be at the cutting edge of radio frequency , which be essential for fight the rapidly develop threat from drone . can the Minister assure I that procurement process be agile enough to allow innovative small business with specialist technology in radio frequency , such as Radio Design , to access new defence contract in order to help we deliver on the strategic defence review ? it be not lose on anyone in the House that the first 100 page of the strategic defence review be all about industry , about ensure that sme can dock into the defence enterprise far more effectively , and about ensure that we start procure weapon and system — and not only for our defence , but for our overseas partner . my hon . friend will also be aware that we procure 10 , 000 drone in 2024 . the figure have now go up to 100 , 000 , which be go to Ukraine to support our ally in its fight against Russia . we have all witness the devastating effect of mass drone attack , and mps could see for themselves the sinister look iranian russian drone that be here in Parliament only last week . what measure be the Ministry take to develop a strategy in this country to defend ourselves from such a mass drone attack ? I recall that a quadcopter land on the deck of HMS Queen Elizabeth when she set sail several year ago , and since then investment in take out uncrewed air system have be relatively limited . however , in the strategic defence review we have pledge £ 1 billion to integrate air defence here in the UK , and my hon . friend will see many procurement move forward in the defence investment plan . I call the shadow Secretary of State . accord to their own write answer , the Government order only three drone for the british armed force in their first financial year . at June ' s Defence oral question , I suggest that Labour could find the money to buy drone at the scale we need by scrap the crazy Chagos deal . they reject my proposal then , but give that the Secretary of State have just fail to deny £ 2 . 6 billion of cut at the MOD this year , be it not even more urgent that they scrap their crazy £ 35 billion surrender and spend every penny on the uncrewed revolution for our own armed force ? the irony ! the Conservatives start the deal and they process the deal . when Labour come into government , we finish it and we put it into place , support by our ally — both the US and multiple other . not only do we finish that deal , but we have start and finish an India deal , a US deal , a Europe deal , a Typhoon deal , a Norway deal and a Germany deal . defence sector : economic Growth what step he be take to help ensure that the defence sector support economic growth . what step he be take to help ensure that the defence sector support economic growth . defence be an engine for growth . the defence industrial strategy , which we publish in September , set out how we will reform procurement , cut contracting time , spend more of our rise defence budget with british company , invest in frontier technology and skill , crowd in private capital and support regional development . I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in respect of the GMB , a defence manufacturing trade union . defence be an engine for growth , but skill shortage remain . what step be be take to increase the number of high - quality apprentice ? if I may , Mr Speaker , can I also ask the Minister to join I in congratulate my constituent Andy De Comyn , whose design have just be choose for the propose national memorial to all member of the parliamentary community who have fall in conflict ? I join my hon . friend in thank his constituent for his creativity and work . defence be one of the large apprenticeship employer in the country , with over 24 , 000 apprentice . the Navy be no . 2 and the RAF be no . 4 , and I be proud that the Army have be name the no . 1 apprenticeship employer . we be do even more than that with £ 182 million go into skill , and we be work with our trade union colleague — from both the GMB , of which I be proud to be a member , and Unite — alongside industry big and small , as part of the Defence Industrial Joint Council , so we can motor our economic development and create more job in defence . how can the defence sector make well use of underutilise MOD land and asset to contribute to innovative model of business such as the community energy project that , alongside initiative such as the South Yorkshire growth deal , can contribute to local sme and energy security ? as a very proud Labour and Co - operative MP , I know just how important it be to use community energy to create good renewable energy and cut energy bill . I would be very happy to speak to my hon . friend about that . we be look at the 1 % of Britain that we own as a Department to see how we can not only deliver defence output and build more house — with 100 , 000 house identify in the defence housing strategy — but support environmental output and great industrial opportunity for the private sector . I be very happy to meet she to discuss that far . the Minister rightly promote our world - class maritime sector in the south - west , where considerable private investment be be make , include a new resilience factory opening in my constituency next week . such innovative young company live or die on the pace of government contracting , but we continue to wait for the late defence investment plan . how will the Minister reassure the new tech company in my constituency that the pace of their private investment be match by the urgency of MOD contract to ensure that economic growth through defence become a reality ? I thank my constituency neighbour for raise issue involve the south - west . I be actually open that factory in the hon . member ' s constituency next week , and I look forward to see she there to make the case far for it . the defence investment plan , which will be publish later this year , will set out what we be spend our money on . let we be very clear : we be deliver the strategic defence review , and we be pile more energy and more of the money that we have be allocate from the Treasury into british business . I want to see more sme benefit from that , and in that respect we be deliver the defence industrial strategy at pace , but I be very happy to discuss that far with she . the south - west , as the Minister have already confirm , be home to major military asset . the defence sector support over 60 , 000 job in the region , include many in Glastonbury and Somerton . the area be uniquely position to drive forward the Government ' s industrial strategy ambition . what action be the Minister take to ensure that the defence industry be an engine of economic growth in Somerset ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the opportunity in the south - west . there be a huge skilled workforce in the south - west region and a huge amount of economic activity already present , but we want there to be even more . that be why we be work with local government , and with regional government where it exist , across the south - west , as well as our colleague in the private sector , to look at how we can boost skill and direct more of the rise defence budget at british company in the south - west and in every other region and nation of the country , so we can deliver for defence and create more job . low - fly Military Aircraft what step he be take to reduce the potential impact of low - fly military aircraft on people live in North Norfolk constituency . the UK and its ally must be ready to deal with the most demanding of circumstance , deter and prevent a full - scale war by be combat - ready . I can assure the hon . member that low - fly training play an indispensable role in achieve and maintain our war fighting capability , and that it be spread throughout the whole of the UK to help minimise disturbance to the public . dozen of my constituent have contact I to express their frustration with the training pattern of both RAF and american fighter jet over North Norfolk ' s town and village . it make it hard to work , it traumatise pet , and in the case of one of my constituent it have leave they with permanent hearing damage . they and I recognise the importance of training , but carry out continuous manoeuvre over populate area when we be so near to the North sea baffle they . can the Minister assure I that he will review the training pattern in our area and take step to reduce the impact on my resident ? I can assure the hon . member that those increase training mission be to support an increase deployment across Europe , highlight the issue , but I will meet the Minister to talk through those issue and see if we can make some slight change . Cadet Numbers what step he be take to increase the number of cadet . as announce in the strategic defence review , we be work to deliver a 30 % expansion of in - school and community - base cadet force by 2030 . the campaign be back by £ 70 million of new investment and will increase our cadet by an estimate 40 , 000 across the UK , provide the opportunity for many more young people to enjoy the fantastic benefit of the cadet experience . I recently have the honour of visit the RAF air cadet in Uxbridge , where I be show at first hand the amazing experience that the cadet offer to young people . as well as be a route into the armed force , they learn new science , technology , engineering and math subject , travel the UK and get their Duke of Edinburgh award , and some also pick up a musical instrument for the first time . this be why it be vital that we expand the cadet through the 30 by 30 initiative . to enable that to take place , what consideration have be give to how we enable more people to volunteer to run cadet force and to how they can access funding to expand their facility ? I be delighted to hear about the fantastic opportunity give by the air cadet in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I can assure he that deliver the 30 by 30 expansion programme require a detailed assessment of key foundational area , include cadet growth , the adult volunteer proposition and the cadet estate . planning be under way to ensure that the activity yield maximum gain and that the fantastic benefit of the cadet experience be available to more young people across the country . the Northern Ireland Universities Air Squadron be base in Aldergrove in my constituency . can the Minister reassure I that any support for cadet will be expand to every cadet and every base across the UK ? as a big proponent of the cadet , I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we will ensure that all the benefit of the cadet be available across the country . Army Recruitment what step his Department be take to increase Army recruitment . we have be very clear in the strategic defence review that we be committed to grow the Army . under this government , we have drive improvement to the recruiting process , strip out outdated medical policy , reduce the time it take to receive candidate medical record and widen cross - Government datum sharing . the Army be now send conditional offer of employment within 10 day and provisional training start date to eligible candidate within 30 day . those measure , alongside target recruiting and a restructuring of the Army ' s recruit organisation , be deliver result . year on year , the Army ' s soldier intake number be up by 13 % and officer number be up by 10 % . I share the Minister ' s concern over Army recruitment . could she please explain to I why a young person would even consider a job in the armed force if they may get a knock on the door in 50 year ' time to be charge with an offence when they be simply do their duty ? I would like to reassure the hon . Gentleman that serve in the armed force be a fantastic career for any young person . the experience and skill that one can gain from a career in the armed force be second to none ; I for one be deeply grateful for all the opportunity I have when I serve , and I would urge all young people to consider such a career . I assure the hon . Gentleman that this Government be commit to renew the contract with those who serve . as a veteran , I can assure he that our no . 1 priority be to defend and protect those who serve this nation . I take this opportunity to thank you , Mr Speaker , for the remembrance service we have this morning . it be hugely emotional , and make I think of those from my constituency who give their life for our freedom 80 year ago . what will my hon . and gallant Friend the Minister do to continue to champion the servicemen and woman who protect this country ? we should celebrate all of they , no matter their ethnicity , religion or nationality . my hon . friend be right that we must celebrate everybody who contribute to our armed force , no matter their gender or other protect characteristic . the commitment of this Government to protect and serve those who serve this nation be total . I call the shadow Minister . as General Lord Dannatt , the former Chief of the General Staff , say at the weekend , " if potential recruit to our Armed Forces do not believe that their government will stand by they when perform their duty in a lawful manner , why risk join at all ? " he be speak about Labour ' s new Northern Ireland Troubles Bill , which could see Northern Ireland veteran , without whom there would never have be a Good Friday agreement in the first place , in the dock again by next year . the Minister call opponent of this " naive " . what be her response to the former head of the British Army and the brave soldier he lead — be they all naive , too ? see as the right hon . Gentleman be attack I for something I do not say , I can only assume that he can not attack I — it ' s in Hansard ! he be very welcome to check Hansard , where he will see that I be very specifically refer to people spread misinformation . he will be able to see it there in black and white in Hansard . it be in Hansard . it be in Hansard , absolutely — I urge the right hon . gentleman to reread it to see the full quote . this Government be commit to protect those who serve . our first and foremost priority be to protect and ensure the welfare of those who have serve , just as we have do for many people who have serve in our armed force across multiple conflict . I can only say again that the commitment of this Government to our veteran be total . the former Labour Security Minister Lord West say recently that we " shouldn ' t be do " this . Lord Glasman , the founder of Blue Labour , say : " we must reverse it as soon as possible . " the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) say that " to continue this against one side make no sense . " with a Labour rebellion clearly brew , and give that many Northern Ireland veteran be initially recruit from red wall seat , why be Labour Ministers insist on drive their Back Benchers into the Division Lobby just to do Sinn F é in and their old comrade in the IRA a favour ? I urge the right hon . Gentleman to remember the really serious issue that be at stake here . the priority of this Government , as we have show repeatedly , be to do right by the family of more than 200 british service personnel who be murder in Northern Ireland and to ensure that we have protection and appropriate measure in place to defend our veteran ; we have five protection in law and a sixth that we have control over ourselves . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman again that the Government ' s commitment to veteran be total . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I begin by associate myself and my party with the sentiment reflect by the Secretary of State about the terrible event in Huntingdon at the weekend ? the Secretary of State ' s ambition to reverse the outflow from our armed force be absolutely right , particularly consider the damage the last Government do to our military , but it be far from clear that the Government be do enough to achieve the necessary change . there continue to be more service personnel leave the Army year on year than be join . in order to strengthen our defence , we need to give more people well incentive to join the armed force . will the Minister consider accelerate recruitment properly and tackle outflow rate by back liberal Democrat proposal for a £ 10 , 000 sign bonus to attract new recruit ? in addition to the measure I have outline to speed up recruitment , we be look at expand novel way of entry into the armed force , such as direct entry in the cyber stream . we be hugely focus on retention , and this be a very personal mission for I , have leave the force in 2020 and know what measure might have help retain I in service for long . we be utterly dedicated to address the reason that people give for leave , not least with our multibillion - pound investment into fix force housing . woman in the Armed Forces : Defence Committee Recommendations whether he be take step to implement the outstanding recommendation of the Defence Committee ' s report entitle " protect those who protect we : woman in the Armed Forces from Recruitment to Civilian Life " , publish on 25 July 2021 . as an Army veteran , and indeed a female Army veteran , this mission be deeply personal to I . More work must be do to improve service life for woman in our armed force . the two remain recommendation from the Committee ' s report — the launch of the veteran strategy and the publication of the tri - service sexual harassment survey result — will be complete this month . the report be a very useful catalyst in hold the Ministry of Defence to account on many initiative through the Raising our Standards programme . our servicewoman urgently need investment in female - specific tactical equipment , particularly bra and body armour . what step be the Minister take to provide funding for research , development and implementation of kit for the female anatomy and to ensure that fitting service and task - appropriate provision be standard across the force ? the hon . Member make a good point , and as someone who have to wear the body armour , I be fully on board . progress be under way to address the very point she mention . Royal Artillery Gunner Jaysley Beck commit suicide after be sexually assault and fail by the military . can the Minister explain what be be do to ensure that woman serve in our armed force be protect from abuse and that complaint be handle with independence , compassion and the seriousness that they deserve ? my hon . friend raise an important case , and I be sure that everybody who read the report into Jaysley - Louise Beck ' s death would agree that it be a hugely tragic and deeply saddening case . there be a duty on I — one which I feel very deeply — to make sure that we do everything we can to address the behaviour my hon . friend mention . the Raising our Standards programme be address cultural behaviour to strengthen leadership and ensure that when complaint like this be make they be deal with appropriately . we be also establish an Armed Forces Commissioner to make sure that where any investigation into these type of behaviour be take out , we can have full trust in the service to do right by any service personnel , whether they be at the low rank or the high . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last week , I be in Turkey with the Prime Minister to sign Britain ' s big fighter jet export deal in a generation . the £ 8 billion contract for 20 Typhoons be a win for european security , the british economy and 20 , 000 UK worker . it come just week after we win the big ever warship deal — a £ 10 billion contract with Norway that will secure 4 , 000 job over the next decade . these deal demonstrate defence as an engine for growth . today we go far and publish our defence housing strategy , in which we plan to upgrade 40 , 000 force family home and build 100 , 000 new home for military and civilian alike . this plan be back by a £ 9 billion investment over this decade — more than double what be in the Tory plan . this be a Government deliver for defence and for Britain . may I congratulate the Secretary of State on the Turkey deal last week ? a year on from his signing of the Trinity House agreement with his german counterpart , can he outline what progress have be make on implement that deal , in particular to boost industrial collaboration and drive great investment into integrated air and missile defence ? indeed , we be a year on from the Trinity House agreement , and our co - operation over the next year will only deepen far . within week , we will have german p - 8s fly out of Lossiemouth . we have a new cyber programme to conduct joint activity . we have accelerate work on a new 2 , 000 km deep precision strike missile , and a new £ 200 million bridging deal to support the british Army . I have to say that this agreement be more important now than when we sign it a year ago . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the Secretary of State ' s strategic defence review statement to Parliament on 2 June , he say that the defence investment plan would be " complete and publish in the autumn . " — [ Official Report , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 72 . ] will he keep that promise ? the SDR quite rightly say that further decision on investment plan be central to deliver the SDR . we be do that work thoroughly at the moment so that we will no long have what the hon . member ' s government leave : a defence programme that be overcommitte , underfunded and unsuited to meet the threat that face we . the Secretary of State do not answer the question . I be afraid the worry be that it be yet another delayed defence Command Paper . that prompt the obvious question : what exactly be the Government deliver for defence except delay defence Command Papers ? be not this the truth : they be put the british Army back in the dock , they be surrender Diego Garcia for £ 35 billion , and all the while — they have not deny this today — they be cut £ 2 . 6 billion from the frontline this year ? Don ' t the man and woman of our armed force deserve well ? the hon . member ' s figure be wrong , and his characterisation and description be wrong . we have put £ 5 billion extra into the defence budget in this , our first year , and we be raise defence investment with the high increase since the cold war . but the public expect we to manage well the budget that we have get , so we be manage those budget , which he fail to do . alongside the strategic defence review and the defence investment plan , we be already act and have let over 1 , 000 major contract , 84 % of they to british firm . today , we be put £ 9 billion into defence housing for the future . Welin Lambie in Brierley Hill in my constituency design , build and manufacture davit for marine application . it employ about 45 local people , use local supply chain for its product and be really keen to win a Government contract , but sadly under the previous Government it lose out to a spanish cruise ship company . what be the Minister do to support british defence business ? will he visit Welin Lambie with I to help it work far with the Government ? we want to direct more of our increase defence budget at british company , include small and medium - sized enterprise . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to see how we can encourage her business to win more defence contract and to feed back on how we can be well in allow sme to access the defence funding that we provide . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we have already hear about the sentencing last week of Warrant Officer Michael Webber for the sexual assault of Gunner Jaysley Beck , and I be sure that all who hear they be deeply move by the dignified word of Jaysley ' s parent as they describe how that abuse and the failure to address it contribute to her death five month later . will the Minister for Veterans and People , whose personal commitment to these issue be not in question , update the House on the implementation in full of the Atherton report ' s recommendation , and specifically on create a fully independent complaint procedure and provide access to civilian court for sexual abuse offence ? as the hon . Member will be aware , the Ministry of Defence accept 33 of the Committee ' s recommendation , partially accept a further four recommendation and note 13 point that be conclusion rather than recommendation . there be three recommendation that we be not implement , but it must be stress that we be instead take action to address the underlie concern of those recommendation in other way . the remain 33 recommendation have be address through both Defence and single service activity deliver over the past two year . the opening last week by the King of the UK ' s first national memorial commemorate LGBT veteran mark an important moment for all LGBT people who have serve or continue to serve in our military . will my hon . friend confirm that this will not be merely a symbolic moment for those veteran ? I put on record my thank to those LGBT personnel who have serve and continue to serve with distinction . it be without doubt a huge honour and privilege last week to attend the unveiling of the Etherton memorial , commemorate the life and legacy of the late Lord Etherton . we have now pay £ 20 million in total to veteran under the LGBT financial recognition scheme , and I can assure my hon . friend that , to I , the monument stand not only as a memorial to what have go before but as a firm anchor for where we must go in the future . I warmly welcome , as do the family of 40 Commando in Taunton , the Government ' s adoption of the decent home standard propose from the liberal Democrat Benches , and the £ 9 billion investment . can the Minister give an indication of the timescale within which all service family accommodation will be bring up to that decent home standard ? the scale of the problem be truly gigantic . we have re - buy 36 , 000 home . nine out of every 10 home will be refurbish and 14 , 000 home might be completely rebuild . we have already start on the first 1 , 000 that need modernising , and once that be do we will move on to the next . across our country , service leaver like Brady , a 29 - year - old from my constituency , be experience homelessness and addiction before receive the support they need . I welcome the Government ' s work on the renew armed force covenant , but do the Minister agree that structured and timely health and welfare check follow discharge would strengthen that promise to veteran like Brady ? we have significant process in place before exit to ensure a smooth transition , particularly to manage personnel who be wound , injure or sick , and the Valour initiative should help we take step to well co - ordinate support for veteran . I can assure my hon . friend that improve how service personnel leave the service be a key priority for I . I have a really simple question : do this Government consider China a national security threat ? no one word can sum up a country as significant and as complex as China , but our experience tell we that China be certainly an economic threat , as well as an opportunity in many area . research show that woman in the Army be up to seven time more likely than man to suffer musculoskeletal injury , and 10 time more likely to experience hip and pelvic fracture . give these stark disparity , can the Minister tell the House what step she be take to ensure that woman veteran receive appropriate gender - specific healthcare and rehabilitation support as they transition into civilian life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the particular struggle face by female service leaver , and I would like to assure she that , through Operation Restore , there be specific pathway for veteran , include those who need musculoskeletal support . accord to medium report , the Secretary of State recently reveal in a speech that the UK have deploy troop to Israel to monitor the ceasefire in Gaza . could he take this opportunity to update the House on the number and activity of any troop deploy there ? the hon . Gentleman be not correct in say that the troop be there to monitor the ceasefire . a small handful of british force personnel have be deploy to the Civil - Military Co - ordination Centre at the request of the US , and it be the US that be lead that work . recent report show that Babcock be have to recruit hundred of overseas welder because of a skill shortage in Scotland . this be the direct result of decade of under - investment in further education and skill in Scotland . can the Minister outline what the UK Government can do to ensure that my constituent can access the apprenticeship and skill that defence job depend on ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if only we have a Scottish Government who be invest in defence skill rather than one who dither on defence . the Scottish Government do not invest in the welding centre in Glasgow ; it require a Labour Government in the UK to step in and invest . we be deliver for defence . the Scottish Government be dither on defence , and they be let job slip out of their hand as a result . I have be campaign on service family accommodation since shortly after my election , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to improve it over the past few week . however , single living accommodation continue to be a considerable concern . there have recently be report of rat infestation at RAF Shawbury in my constituency . what will the Government do to improve single living accommodation , which be equally as important as service family accommodation ? we will shortly start our single living accommodation review to address exactly those point — the sometimes shocking state of such accommodation and what we can do to support the people who live in it . my constituency have a proud military history , and the defence sector continue to thrive at site like Castlemartin and Cawdor barrack . do the Minister agree that the defence growth fund should be use to bring direct benefit to community like mine , as well as to strengthen our national security ? there be a real opportunity in Pembrokeshire and across Wales as we implement the defence growth deal for Wales to create more good , well - pay and unionised job that provide great opportunity . my hon . friend be a real champion for the opportunity in his constituency , and I be happy to meet he to work out how we can advance opportunity to create more decent job across Wales , particularly in Pembrokeshire . last month , the SNP Government in Edinburgh release their late independence propaganda paper . unbelievably , it say that nuclear weapon would have no place in an independent Scotland . do the Minister agree that scottish independence would be a gift to Britain ' s enemy and would put at risk the hard work of our armed force in keep we safe at home ? the hon . Gentleman be right : the continuation of the scottish nationalist Government in Scotland be a threat to our security and to future prosperity and job in that country . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . give the multitude of security threat that we face , especially in the grey zone of cyber - attack , it be abundantly clear that we need to accelerate investment in defence , but the Government be just not able to move fast enough . our german friend , renowne for their fiscal prudence , have relax their fiscal rule just for their Defence Department . in the run - up to the Budget , what discussion have my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary have with the Chancellor on relax fiscal rule for the Ministry of Defence in order to meet the moment ? we have the increase in the budget this year ; we have the increase in the budget over the Parliament . our job now be to ensure that we can deliver value for money for that increase investment , and use that increase investment to drive economic growth across the UK . it be thank to that increase investment that we have be able to announce and launch our defence housing strategy today . several of my veteran constituent have contact I about very long delay in payment under the armed force compensation scheme . Mr Butler , who live near Wareham , have two separate claim — one for hear loss and another for an arm injury — and have be wait two year for an outcome . as we look forward to Remembrance Sunday and reflect on the sacrifice make , what step be the Department take to ensure that we pay our debt to those who have serve we more recently ? I thank the hon . member for raise the case of her constituent . if she write to I with the detail , I will look into exactly why it have take that long . north - east industry have always support our nation ' s defence , yet we now have the low MOD spend out of every single region , leave our potential untapped . will my hon . friend meet I and the North East Regional Defence and Security Cluster to redress that ? yes , I be very happy to do so . I be meet north - east colleague about how we can drive more job and opportunity . as we look at establish not just growth zone but defence technical excellence college and the six new munition and energetic factory , there be a strong case for the north - east to receive some of that defence investment . now that the Secretary of State have warm up a bit by call the SNP a threat to our national security , will he have another go and say whether China be a threat to our national security ? I have nothing to add to what I say in response to the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , who ask the same question . what a waste of a question . I very much welcome the Government ' s Op Valour pilot programme and the Minister ' s commitment to improve support for our veteran . however , I be disappointed that Portsmouth — home to the Royal Navy and one of the large veteran community — be not part of the programme . can the Minister reassure I that council like Portsmouth city council will be encourage and support to join Op Valour and look after the veteran who live in our city ? I share my hon . friend ' s disappointment . Valour be a £ 50 million programme that will bring together a network of regional hub to ensure that there be a physical location where veteran can go to seek help . I urge every region of the UK to get involve . EKA Ltd in my constituency be a supplier to Ministry of Defence service recovery vehicle that have to be deploy with our tank , but an issue that it and other service personnel have highlight be the absence of the provision of robust spare part in the event of a breakdown or damage . the Government be spend million on these asset but leave they completely unprotected . be the MOD review the provision of spare as part of its procurement , and would the Minister meet I and EKA Ltd to discuss the matter far ? I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss this far . the last government , I be afraid , leave not only our weapon stockpile almost empty , but far too many of our part stockpile as well . we be look at invest in that as part of our defence investment plan , but I be happy to meet she to discuss the matter far . two giant of the labour and anti - nuclear arm movement would have be 100 this year : Tony Benn and Mick McGahey . I never have the pleasure of meeting either , but I think they would have recognise that an industrial strategy base on militarism be flawed . the defence sector be less than 1 % of the UK workforce , so militarism be not a UK - wide industry and it serve war , not peace . what happen to choose welfare over warfare , and to choose job in sector that will promote real economic growth and actual social benefit ? when I bring you in on a topical , it be mean to be short and punchy , not a " War and Peace " question ! I have to say that my hon . friend be wrong on this . over 400 , 000 job be support — directly and indirectly — by defence , and almost 70 % of the defence investment we make in this country be outside London and the south - east , right across the UK . People ' s experience of medical discharge from the armed force vary significantly , and too often it fail those who need the support most . what step be the Minister take to improve the discharge process , include improve consistency across unit ? I thank the hon . member for raise an important point . make sure that service personnel who leave under the medical discharge be fully set up for success in their post - service life be fundamental and a huge priority for I . last week I have the honour and privilege of attend the dedication of the new LGBT + armed force community memorial at the National Memorial Arboretum in Alrewas in my constituency , alongside his Majesty the King , proud veteran and member of our armed force . will the Minister join I in commend the unveiling of this important memorial , and do she agree that it will serve as a last reminder of the injustice and discrimination suffer by LGBT + service personnel and as a powerful symbol of our commitment to equality and respect for all those who serve ? it be clear to see how much that event mean to the LGBT + veteran , many of whom have suffer terribly under the ban . many say to I that they never think this day would come . I hope that the event itself and the memorial will serve as a last reminder of our responsibility go forward . the F - 35 Lightning II aircraft be a cut - edge system , the helmet for which come from my constituency , but the Public Accounts Committee have the MOD in missile lock over the cost of introduce the new nuclear freefall bomb with the F - 35A . can the Minister give the House some reassurance that the decision to bring in tactical nuclear weapon be not go to cost we a bomb ? yes . " Soldier F " Trial Verdict before we begin , it may be helpful for I to remind the House that the trial of Soldier F in relation to the event on Bloody Sunday be no long sub judice and that it be the focus of today ' s urgent question . there remain live case in respect of other soldier . on 14 July 2025 , I grant a waiver to allow limited reference to active legal proceeding relate to historical trouble - relate death . however , reference to live case should be limit to the context and to the event that lead to the case , but not to the detail of case themselves , nor to the name of those individual involve . to ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement on the verdict in the trial of Soldier F . the trial of Soldier F conclude on 23 October with a not guilty verdict . the Ministry of Defence rightly provide he with legal and pastoral support . I and the Secretary of State for Defence have , of course , note the judgment , but I do not think it appropriate to be draw on the particular of these independent legal proceeding . the House will recognise that it be also a difficult day for the family of the 13 people shoot dead on Bloody Sunday , in circumstance that the former Prime Minister Lord Cameron describe as " unjustified and unjustifiable " . I be sure that the sympathy of the whole House remain with they . we all understand the continue pain feel by family and community in Northern Ireland and across the United Kingdom as a result of the trouble . the Government remain committed to establish a legacy process that can provide answer for family who be still seek to find out what happen to their love one . we will always remember the danger face by our brave soldier , police , and other who serve during the time of Operation Banner and who try to keep people safe , and will always remember , especially at this time of year , those who make the ultimate sacrifice . their service will never be forget , and we owe they a profound debt of gratitude . it be , however , important to note that the case of Soldier F of course involve no role for either this Government or the last one . the independent proceeding be ongoing before the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , and they be not halt by that legislation . decision by the prosecution service in Northern Ireland be always take independently , in the light of fact and circumstance , and we should all respect that independence . a prosecution can only ever be bring when the evidence present , in the view of prosecutor , a reasonable prospect of a conviction , and when it be in the public interest to proceed . I also recognise that all those affect by the trouble , include veteran , want a system that be fair , balanced and proportionate . that be what the Northern Ireland Troubles Bill be seek to put in place , with a new legacy commission and strong protection for veteran that be not include in the last Government ' s legacy Act . that act offer a false and undeliverable promise of immunity to our Northern Ireland veteran . these measure will provide what the three UK veteran commissioner have call for — not immunity from the law , but fairness under it . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . I , too , begin with a thought for the family leave bereft by the event of that day in 1972 . it be a conservative Prime Minister who , 15 year ago , say to the House that what happen on Bloody Sunday be both " unjustified " and " wrong " , and " on behalf of our country — I be deeply sorry . " — — [ Official Report , 15 June 2010 ; Vol . 511 , c . 740 . ] he do so , of course , after the publication of the Saville inquiry , which take 12 year and cost in today ' s money about £ 325 million . even after such an extensive inquiry , there have be no conviction . indeed , Judge Patrick Lynch tell Belfast Crown court that the evidence fall well short of the standard require . he say : " a 53 - year - old statement can not be cross - examine , nor can I assess the demeanour of a sheet of a4 paper " . that go to the heart of what my party argue when pass our legacy Act . as time go by , it become vanishingly difficult to obtain conviction . the 1998 agreement be 27 year ago , and the ceasefire be 31 year ago . that of course have implication for the Government ' s trouble Bill , which will reopen many case where there be no prospect of resolution , only a prospect of ongoing legal process . under the Bill , there be almost no possibility of bring terrorist to court , but it ultimately leave open the likelihood of ever more vexatious complaint against our veteran . we be talk about claim like that throw out by the High Court in Belfast last month ; the judge describe the challenge as " utterly divorce from reality " , although not before a former special force soldier have to endure four year of investigation . last week , it be report that a similar case , from 53 year ago , may soon go to trial . no wonder that on Friday , Special Air Service veteran publish a letter in the Financial Times , in which they say that " ' legacy ' have become an industry that keep wound open while rewrite history . " we ask the Secretary of State to think again . I be grateful to the hon . member for refer to the Saville inquiry . that long - run inquiry finally bring some truth and justice , in the eye of family of the 13 people shoot dead , and lead the former Prime Minister to make his apology . the hon . member be right when he say that , give the passage of time , it be " vanishingly difficult " — I think that be the phrase he use — to obtain conviction . Most of the family — not all — whom I have meet and who lose love one recognise that fact . however , he also have to acknowledge that the legacy Act , with its offer of immunity — conditional immunity . as I say , the legacy Act ' s offer of immunity in return for statement that the legacy commission regard as truthful and credible could have give immunity to terrorist . that be why the immunity that the last Government seek to put in place be reject by victim ' and survivor ' group in Northern Ireland , be oppose by all the political party in Northern Ireland , and be find by the court to be incompatible with our human right obligation . therefore , as I have say to the House before , and I have say to the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , the Act be no basis on which to try to help those family find the answer that they be look for . that be why we need a different approach — building on the establishment of the legacy commission , I grant he , because I take the decision that we would not abolish it but reform it . that be what the Bill that we will debate shortly seek to do , and I look forward to it be scrutinise by the House . many people impact by the trouble continue to live with the pain , trauma and grief of war . the previous Government ' s approach to legacy be render essentially useless because , as the Secretary of State just say , it be oppose by all the political party in Northern Ireland . what step have the Secretary of State take to carry all the people of Northern Ireland with he on his approach to legacy ? have promise the House in two statement since the Government be elect in July 2024 that I would bring forward proposal , I do so when the Government publish the Bill on 14 October . since then , I have meet political party and organisation represent victim and survivor , and this week I will again meet the victim and survivor forum that I meet on the day that the agreement with the Irish Government be publish . as I acknowledge to the House when I make my oral statement , no proposal put forward will be greet with approval by everyone , but I have be much strike by the fact that those I have meet and talk to have say , " well , we will need to consider the detail . " I believe that the proposal provide a basis for move forward , and I hope that the House will recognise that . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Secretary of State for his response so far . we welcome the resolution of this trial and the clarity that the law have afford . the Liberal Democrats extend our deep sympathy to the family who still seek justice and answer . the legacy Act of 2023 may have be drive by the instinct to protect veteran , but it fail to comply with our international legal obligation and , through its conditional immunity , create a false equivalence between those who valiantly serve in the british armed force and those involve in act of terrorism . that approach be both morally wrong and offensive to veteran and victim alike . the violence carry out by terrorist organisation during the trouble cause deep suffering across Northern Ireland , and we believe that the need to uphold the rule of law must apply to all without exception , but prosecution should never become persecution . this case focus our attention back on the Government ' s new attempt to deal with the legacy of the past . be the Secretary of State absolutely confident that the Bill will deliver strong enough protection for british veteran ? what have he do to try to secure support from veteran ' organisation ? what have he do to ensure that victim and family can finally access the truth and justice that they deserve ? I agree with what the hon . Gentleman say and his characterisation of the immunity provision in the legacy Act . Nick Pope , the chair of the Confederation of Service Charities , say that the confederation welcome " the development of the safeguard that have be put in place to offer protection to those within the armed force community who be affect by legacy issue . " we draw those up have speak to veteran . I hope that when people look at they and see how they work , they will recognise that we have acknowledge our particular responsibility to treat veteran fairly in the process . that be the right way to proceed . some 53 year after the event of Bloody Sunday , and 15 year after the report of the Saville inquiry , it be become clear that future criminal case will be few and far between , but every single day , this issue sit with the family who have lose love one . it affect every day of their life , be they the family of military personnel or of those who be simply in the wrong place at the wrong time . what assurance can the Secretary of State give that they will remain absolutely central to this work , go forward ? all those family , include military family , be at the centre of what we seek to do . what be the Government try to achieve ? we be try to create a legacy system that more people in Northern Ireland can have confidence in . the last legacy Act fail to command sufficient confidence from the people in Northern Ireland ; that be a fact that no one can dispute . I agree with my hon . friend that prosecution be increasingly unlikely with the passage of time — I think the judgment and the judge ' s sum up in the case of Soldier F make that extremely clear — but even where they be not possible , we want to put in place arrangement , and to be able to provide information about what happen to the family . I call the Father of the House . whatever the wrong commit on that day , do the Secretary of State understand that it beggar belief that a former IRA man can , in his old age , be loll on a sofa , despite all his torturing , kneecapping and execution ? I be think of Captain Nairac , who be abduct , torture and kill ; his perpetrator be never bring to justice . do the Secretary of State realise that this whole process be deeply wound to the morale of the british Army ? he can take refuge in independent prosecution , but he can give his own opinion and say that it be surely time that Northern Ireland move on into a well age . we all want Northern Ireland to be able to move on into a well age and a well future , but we have a responsibility to those family who be still search for answer to put in place a system that will help they to get those answer , include in the case that the right hon . Gentleman have mention . I simply point out that it be estimate that between 25 , 000 and 35 , 000 paramilitary serve sentence of imprisonment during the trouble for a wide variety of offence , include murder . if he look at the case currently await trial , he will find that most of they relate to former paramilitary , not to our armed force . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s remark about the professionalism , bravery and sacrifice of our armed force , and the role that they play in Northern Ireland and across the UK . what discussion have he have with veteran , as well as the Defence Secretary and the Minister for Veterans and People , about the new protection in the Northern Ireland Troubles Bill ? be he or one of the Defence Ministers prepare to speak to veteran in Cornwall on this matter ? I be sure that my right hon . and hon . friend who be Ministers in the Ministry of Defence will have hear what my hon . friend have say . the protection in the legislation that have be bring before the House be the result of extensive discussion with the Secretary of State for Defence , the armed force Ministers , and veteran ' organisation . the Front Benchers have rightly refer to the pain of the relative of those who die on Bloody Sunday . we all share their sympathy , but nothing justify the persecution of innocent people , particularly innocent veteran . the judge in the trial say : " the evidence present by the Crown fall well short of … the high standard of proof require in a criminal case " . nevertheless , in two week ' time , there will be another case involve another soldier from 53 year ago , which have already be review for four year by the Director of Public Prosecutions and rule as " no case to answer " . despite that , with no evidence whatsoever have be provide since that time , that man be be put through misery and persecution now — a 78 - year - old man sit in anxiety in his home , wait to be prosecute for a case that should never have be bring . do the Secretary of State not recognise that this be injustice ? wrap it up however he like , it be injustice , and his legislation will mean that many more such case will occur . the legislation that the Government have put before the House will make no change at all to the basis on which decision about any potential prosecution be make . indeed , that system will remain as it have be right through the course of the trouble and in the 27 and a half year since . [ interruption . ] it be the case . decision about prosecution be take independently by prosecutor , and it be not for we to gainsay the decision that those prosecutor make , because that be the absolute bedrock of our independent judicial system . some quarter of a million people serve in Operation Banner , and the vast majority do so with great distinction and huge bravery , lead to the peace that we see in Northern Ireland today . the number of prosecution of Army veteran be vanishingly small , so will the Secretary of State join I in thank those veteran for their service and condemn the rhetoric that at time be come from Conservative Members , which be unnecessarily stoke fear among those veteran ? I have already express the Government ' s thank in my answer to the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , and I think those sentiment be feel right across the House . I welcome the clear and just verdict deliver by Mr Justice Lynch , which rightly find Soldier F not guilty on all charge — vindication for a man who serve his country with honour and distinction . do the Secretary of State agree that this case again expose the disgrace of vexatious prosecution of aged veteran , pursue where there be never evidence capable of meet the threshold for conviction , and that it be time to end the witch hunt once and for all ? do the Secretary of State far agree that around 90 % of all death during the trouble be cause by terrorist , and that of the 10 % that involve the security force , the large proportion occur while engage terrorist who be engage in murderous and criminal activity ? Sinn F é in ' s historical revisionism , exemplify by the First Minister ' s comment follow the verdict , be therefore defamatory . to equate murderer with those who defend democracy be an attempt to smear our veteran , and it should not be allow . I agree with the hon . member that 90 % of those who be kill during the trouble be kill by paramilitary terrorist , which be why the vast majority of those who have be prosecute and convict have be paramilitary terrorist . however , I do not agree with she when she use the phrase " vexatious prosecution " . there be no vexatious prosecution . [ hon . member : " what ? " ] there be no vexatious prosecution , because if the hon . Member be argue that a decision to prosecute be vexatious , she be criticise the independent prosecute authority , which make their decision on the basis of whether there be a reasonable prospect of a conviction and whether it be in the public interest to prosecute . we should be extremely careful about try to undermine an independent judicial system . many IRA murder on UK soil have never be solve , include the targeting of soldier and their family in the M62 coach bombing in 1974 and the Warrenpoint massacre in 1979 , the deadly attack on the british Army during the trouble . do the Secretary of State agree that by shut down investigation — include into the death of more than 200 Operation Banner soldier — without an adequate alternative , the legacy Act fail many family and victim of the trouble ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern about what happen as a result of the legacy Act , but I welcome that two of the case she mention — the M62 coach bombing and Warrenpoint — be currently be investigate by the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery , because member of their family have choose to refer in those case . I want more family to have more confidence in the commission , which be why I be seek to reform it so that they too feel able to refer their case in . I be listen carefully to the right hon . Gentleman , and the whole premise of his case be that it be somehow in the public interest for people in that community to carry on try to find people to blame and prosecute on both side of the argument . be the real case here not that it be not only an extraordinary injustice for people to be prosecute for have do their duty as member of her Majesty ' s armed force , but it do not serve the interest of peace and reconciliation to allow and encourage people to carry on reopen wound , when so much time and money have already be spend on try to explain what happen to their love one ? nothing must detract from that sympathy , but it be a monstrous injustice that people in the line of duty who bear the scar of that conflict be pay the price for this almost politically correct process , instead of draw a line . I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that I do not accept the characterisation he use at the end of his question . this be not a politically correct process ; this be about try to find a way forward for those family . the honest answer to the fair point that he raise be that each family deal with the loss of their love one in their own way . some do not come forward . they live with their grief silently , alone . other have campaign . if it have not be for the campaigning of the Bloody Sunday family , there would not have be a Saville inquiry and we would not have get to the point where the former Prime Minister stand at this Dispatch Box to apologise for the killing of their love one . have say that , in the vast majority of case , no one be likely to be hold to account through a judicial process , and that be why one of the focus of the new commission will be on fact - finding and the new body for information retrieval , use all the mean at our disposal to try to provide answer to those family . it will then be for they to decide how they come to term with what happen . we owe it to they to leave no stone unturned and to put a well system in place . as someone who serve in Northern Ireland , I just remind the House that this be the most peculiar operation that we could ever expect soldier to do — patrolling street in this United Kingdom , defend people against terrorist here in the UK , against a very strict rule of engagement booklet . they have to make complex decision in a split second . some of they be 18 year old , on the street , petrify . in that context , I simply say to the right hon . Gentleman that he talk of equivalence , but more than 700 british soldier in Northern Ireland be kill by paramilitary . not one single paramilitary have be arraign and take to court for any of those murder that be commit against the British Army and the british force . the Secretary of State talk of equivalence , but this be not equivalence , because it be those soldier who will be persecute for the rest of time , and not one single member of the paramilitary , who keep no record , will ever go in front of a court . that be not fair . I apologise if I have get this wrong , but I do not remember use the word " equivalence " . what I say be that independent prosecutor would make decision on the basis of the evidence that they have before they . the current legacy commission be able to refer case for potential prosecution , and the new legacy commission will be able to do the same . if there be evidence that will allow paramilitary to be prosecute , it will be for the prosecutor to decide whether to bring a case , and if the right hon . Gentleman care to look at the conviction that there have be since the Good Friday agreement , he will find that most of they have relate to paramilitary . as I say a moment ago , most of the trial that be currently be await relate not to the armed force but to paramilitary . do the Secretary of State not understand that , give the judge ' s comment that the evidence fall well short of the standard require , veteran do consider that that be a vexatious prosecution ? they do consider that the prosecution of soldier B be a vexatious prosecution , and they do feel utterly betray by this Government ' s repeal of the legacy Act . the legacy Act offer a false promise of immunity . it be find to be incompatible with our obligation , and it have no support in Northern Ireland . at some point , Opposition Members must recognise that it have no support there . how can Northern Ireland move forward if the basis of the last Government ' s legislation lack that support ? in those circumstance , it be for prosecutor to make decision , and we need to respect that . People may agree or disagree , but we need to respect a system in which prosecution decision be make independently , because there be other country in the world where that be not the case . do the Secretary of State envisage any circumstance in which an IRA terrorist could be prosecute after he have receive a letter of comfort , and if so , what be those circumstance ? I would cite to the right hon . Gentleman the case of Mr John Downey , to whom I have refer in the House before . he receive one of those letter , and as a result his trial for the Hyde Park bombing be halt by the judge , but the public record will show that Mr Downey be currently await trial for two murder commit during the trouble , in which case the letter that he receive can not — I repeat , can not — be say to have grant he immunity from prosecution . I greatly welcome the " not guilty " verdict on Soldier F , but have the Secretary of State no empathy with Soldier F , a man who have live through year of turmoil and torture while await prosecution , in circumstance in which it be patently obvious that the evidence be never go to stack up ? as a lawyer , I be absolutely astounded that this prosecution get as far as it do , because it rely entirely , in term of what be relevant , on the word of two individual , both of whom have by then be depict as liar and perjurer , and neither of whom could be cross - examined — yet our so - call independent prosecution service persist with the prosecution . be that not the very essence of what be vexatious , and do the Secretary of State agree that those who campaign for this persecution of Soldier F should accept the verdict that he be not guilty , and leave the man to live out his year in peace ? it be a fundamental principle of our legal system that we accept the verdict of the court , even if we may not agree with they . the hon . and learn Gentleman be a distinguished lawyer , and he express his view regard the basis of that prosecution . the only point that I be make be that that decision be make by independent prosecutor , not by any of we . fifty - one year ago this month , 21 people be murder and 200 people be injure in the Birmingham pub bombing . last week the Minister for Security , the hon . member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , issue a statement say that he would not be recommend a public inquiry and that , instead , the Justice for the 21 campaigner could pursue justice via the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery , which the Secretary of State have refer to . but BBC Northern Ireland be report that , because there have be an inquest into those bombing , it would not be in scope for the commission to look into the Birmingham pub bombing . could the Secretary of State , at the Dispatch Box , confirm to the family in Justice for the 21 that it would indeed be possible for the commission to look into that ? it would indeed be possible for they to refer the case to the commission . I will first declare an interest : I serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment and the Ulster Royal Artillery for some 14 and a half year . this ruling be expect , as there be no additional evidence and it be twice hold to be not fit for prosecution , as other have mention . it be hard to understand how they could pursue something without have the criminal investigation and the evidence sort in advance . it be clear that the Secretary of State must address the way forward and provide certainty for those service personnel who know that they serve honourably in impossible condition , and yet who live with the sword of Damocles hang over their head , wait to have their service use as a tool by republican to make it seem like they be fight a dirty war , when quite clearly they be not . will the Secretary of State send the message today that he will not sign off on the narrative that our troop — the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Ulster Defence Regiment — be ever anything other than honourable man and woman put their life on the line for we , and that they will be protect as honourably as they protect we ? how do the Secretary of State intend to protect they well than we be do right now ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the protection that we have put into legislation follow the discussion that we have have with veteran , which I refer to early . I join he in again pay tribute to the extraordinarily brave service of all those who serve during the time of Operation Banner in try to protect the people of Northern Ireland from the terrorist . I will make a point that I know the whole House will agree with : while some people argue that there be no alternative to that terrorism , there be , and we see it in the signing of the Good Friday agreement and what happen thereafter . there be always an alternative . that be why we should always support those who do their duty honourably . the Secretary of State baulk at the word " equivalence " , so I will have a go with another one . do he believe that Northern Ireland terrorist should be treat equally to Northern Ireland veteran ? if he do , why do he not issue letter of comfort to those Northern Ireland veteran ? the letter of comfort — or the on - the - run letter , however one wish to describe they — have their origin in the time after the Good Friday agreement , as the hon . Gentleman will be well aware , but , as I explain a moment ago in answer to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , they do not give anyone immunity from prosecution . that be an extremely important point to make . anyone who give the impression that they give immunity from prosecution be , I be afraid , cause people unnecessary worry when the fact do not support that . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , many of those who serve in Operation Banner will reflect on comrade whom they lose , comrade who be injure and comrade who still suffer mentally as a result of their deployment in that operation — the british Army ' s long continuous deployment . the Secretary of State have say from the Dispatch Box that his Northern Ireland Troubles Bill will bring strong protection for veteran . it do not ; it bring the same protection for everyone under that Bill , include those who possibly perpetrate murderous act of terrorism in Northern Ireland . so what can he actually provide regard continuous support for veteran — something set out on the face of the Bill , rather than something that be not in the legislation but be promise by Government ? the protection be put in place for veteran after consult veteran , and they be not unimportant : the ability to stay at home and give evidence ; the protection from repeat investigation ; and the right to seek immunity in a hearing of the commission — people already have the right to seek that in a coroner ' s court . [ Official Report , 4 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) there be , of course , two other protection : the protection from cold calling and the right to be hear through the statutory advisory group that will be establish , work alongside the commission , which will have representation from a member of the armed force or a police force . those be very practical change that we have make , which , as I say early , be not contain in the current legacy Act . the Secretary of State be right to say that this Remembrance Month underline the debt of gratitude that we owe to those who serve our nation , but many in my constituency feel that that stand in stark contrast to the fundamental failure in our nation ' s duty of care to veteran of Operation Banner . the Secretary of State suggest that the trouble legacy Bill will not increase the risk of veteran be drag through the court , but veteran feel that the reality be different . in the letter that my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) refer to , they call it " lawfare " . they say that there be a legal conveyor belt of several action that be take place . be it not time for a time limit on civil action relate to historical military operation ? the hon . member raise an important point . it be , however , very important to distinguish , as I know she will , between potential criminal prosecution , which be the result of decision of independent prosecutor , and civil case . one of the other thing that the court find be that the ban on civil case be incompatible with our human right obligation . I point out that there have already be a civil case in relation to a paramilitary , which find against that individual , and it be a fundamental feature of our system that people be able to bring civil case . decision about how those case be dispose of be rightly a matter for the court . my thought today be with the family of the Bloody Sunday victim and with the people of Derry , who have carry the burden of grief , truth and justice for more than five decade . what happen on Bloody Sunday be not up for debate ; the Saville inquiry establish in painstaking detail what the Parachute Regiment do to peaceful civil right demonstrator on the Bogside . can the Secretary of State explain how it be determine and who determine that Soldier F qualify for Ministry of Defence funding , and what precedent this decision be base on , particularly give report that he receive double the financial support typically afford to a single defendant ? if he be eligible for legal aid , that avenue be open for he . instead , £ 4 . 3 million of public money be spend defend a man who , in his own evidence to the Saville inquiry , admit his lethal role in the state - sanction murder on Bloody Sunday . do the Secretary of State believe that this represent an equal and impartial application of justice , or a two - tiere system design to shield the british state from accountability ? I say to the hon . member that the Saville inquiry report make for very sobering and distressing reading for all of we . like many member present , I be in the House to hear the former Prime Minister , Lord Cameron , make that apology to the family — something for which they have campaign for year and year when justice be deny to they . I will always remember the photograph of the fist that come out of the window in the Guildhall in Derry / Londonderry as people hear what the Prime Minister at the time have say from the Dispatch Box . on the hon . member ' s first point , it be right and proper that the Ministry of Defence provide support to any veteran who be face a criminal justice process . I think we would expect nothing less . it be important that we in this House remember that terrorist kill member of this House , include Airey Neave only a few hundred yard from where we stand today . the Secretary of State on previous occasion have indicate that something like nine inquest could now restart . he have say that Loughgall , an exemplary special force operation in which brave man stand up against terrorist and nullify they , will be one of those . he have not say which other eight will be reopen . can he take this opportunity to do that here today ? I will do so when we have be able to inform the family in those case . I hope that the hon . Gentleman would accept that it be only right and proper that we inform the family first , and then I will make a list available . on the reason for the Loughgall inquest , he will be aware that the former Attorney General say on 23 September 2015 : " follow careful consideration of a huge amount of material I have come to the decision that new inquest into the Loughgall death be justify . " can the Secretary of State tell the House how it be compatible with the sovereignty of the United Kingdom to give the Irish Government an official role — effectively , a veto — over the new framework that the Government propose ? be he confident that the irish state itself will do everything it can to ensure that its agent be hold to account for any collusion that may have happen in atrocity carry out by irish nationalist during the trouble ? the irish Government do not have a veto . I stand next to the t á naiste , Simon Harris , and I make commitment on behalf of the British Government and he make commitment on behalf of the Irish Government . all of we in the House who wish family to get the answer for which they have be search for so long should welcome the fact that the Irish Government be prepared to move from where they be now , because they oppose the legacy Act too , to a place where they will give this their full co - operation . in the course of that , we all hope to provide more information to give more family answer . that be what we be try to do , and I hope the hon . Gentleman will welcome the fact that the two government be work together on this , because it will help the family . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . yes , if it relate to the urgent question . during his response today , the Secretary of State have say two thing : on the one hand , he say that letter of comfort do not give immunity ; and on the other hand , he accept that letter of comfort stop the prosecution of Mr Downey for the Hyde Park bombing . it seem to I that those two statement be inconsistent . what way be available to he to correct Hansard and put one of they right ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . what I say be absolutely accurate , as the right hon . Gentleman well know . on the circumstance of the trial of Mr Downey in relation to the Hyde Park bombing , the reason why the judge call that to a halt be set out . but subsequent statement make it quite clear that those letter of comfort do not constitute immunity , as the subsequent event — not least the impending prosecution of Mr Downey — demonstrate . thank you . Huntingdon Train Attack before the Home Secretary make her statement , I must advise the House that charge have be bring against a name individual and the matter be now sub judice . member should take care not to say anything in the House that might prejudice a criminal trial . I therefore urge member to avoid speculate about the guilt or innocence of an individual , or the motive for the attack . the Home Secretary may wish to make factual statement for the record . member may wish to ask about the emergency service , the response to the attack , the support for victim and family , and connect matter . however , I urge the utmost caution in avoid any remark that might prejudice a future trial . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the horrific event that take place on the east coast main line on Saturday evening . I be sure that I speak for everyone in this House when I say that my thought today be first and foremost with the victim , their family and their friend , and all those who experience this terrifying attack . my deep thank go to the emergency service : the British Transport police , Cambridgeshire police , cambridgeshire fire and rescue service , and the East of England ambulance service . the speed of their response , as well as their skill and professionalism , be exemplary . I also pay tribute to the breathtaking bravery of those on the train itself , include the heroic act of the passenger and train crew who intercept the attacker . I draw particular attention to one member of the onboard crew who run towards danger , confront the attacker for a sustained period of time , and stop his advance through the train . he put himself in harm ' s way , suffer grievous injury as a result , and remain in hospital today in a critical but stable condition . on Saturday , he go to work to do his job — today , he be a hero and forever will be . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] there be now a live investigation into what happen on Saturday night and the event that lead up to it . I be therefore limited in what I can say today without put a successful prosecution at risk . I be sure that all here agree there must be one priority right now : bring the person who commit this horrific crime to justice . however , I will share what fact I can . at 7 . 42 pm on Saturday evening , police be contact about an incident on a train travel from Doncaster to London , with report of several stabbing onboard . the quick thinking of the driver see the train divert to Huntingdon station . within eight minute of the first 999 call , police have board the train and bring the attack to an end . ten people be take to hospital by the ambulance service , eight of whom have life - threaten injury , and a further individual later self - present at the hospital . three have now be discharge , while eight remain in hospital . I know that everyone in this House wish they the swift and full recovery possible , and I would like to thank the staff at Cambridge University hospital NHS foundation trust for their lifesaving care . I can confirm , as be report over the weekend , that Operation Plato , the national police identifi for a terrorist attack , be declare ; however , it be rescind once the incident have be contain . the british Transport police remain the lead force in this investigation . it state yesterday that while Counter Terrorism Policing be initially involve , it have find " nothing to suggest " this be " a terrorist incident " . at the scene , the police make two arrest . since then , one man have be release who we now know be not involve . as of this morning , the other — one Anthony Williams — have be charge . in relation to the event in Huntingdon , he have be charge with 10 count of attempt murder , one count of possession of a knife , and one of actual bodily harm . he have also be charge with a further count of attempt murder and possession of a bladed article in relation to event on a dockland light railway train in the early hour of Saturday morning , at London ' s Pontoon Dock . cambridgeshire police have , in the last few hour , report additional early sighting and possible further offence . as be standard practice in these case , it have now refer itself to the Independent Office for Police Conduct for independent scrutiny of its handling of these report . for now , there be little I can say about this man and his past , beyond confirm that he be a british national and be bear in this country , and that he be not know to the security service , Counter Terrorism Policing or Prevent . I know that this House , and the public , will have many unanswered question today about who this attacker be and about the event that lead up to the attack . those question will be answer , but it will take time — the police and prosecutor must be allow to do their work . since Saturday ' s attack , the British Transport police have increase its presence at key point in the transport network . it should be note , however , that its operational assessment of the risk pose on our train have not change , as this be an isolated attack . this be also , of course , a knife crime . this Government be commit to halve knife crime within a decade , and progress have be make this year . we have take 60 , 000 knife off our street , ban zombie knife and ninja sword and see a 5 % fall in all knife crime , include an 18 % reduction in homicide by knife . I know that idea have already be suggest as to how policing should change in response to this event and , once the fact be know , we must examine what more might have be do to stop this horrific attack ever occur and whether there be measure we must now take to well protect the public on our street and on our train . however , that must be do when all the fact be available to we . the thought of the whole House today be with the victim of this horrific crime , their family and friend , and all affect by what happen on Saturday night . the sickening act of the man who commit this crime be the very bad of humanity , but the action of those who respond and who run towards danger to save the life of people they do not know be the very good of we . I know that we all share in pay tribute to their extraordinary bravery today . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . our thought be with the victim of this appalling attack and their family , as the Home Secretary rightly say . I join she in pay tribute to the emergency service who respond so fast and the brave intervention by member of the public and the train staff that prevent an even bad tragedy from occur . they be truly hero . this attack have horrify and shock the whole nation . People simply travel by train be indiscriminately attack . the horror the passenger experience will likely stay with they forever . Anthony Williams have now be charge . as the Home Secretary say , he have be involve in previous incident in Peterborough and , in the early hour of Saturday morning , be also allegedly involve in an attack on the dockland light railway in London . will the Home Secretary confirm that , as I have be tell , police in London know Williams ' s identity follow that attack , and if so , whether Cambridgeshire police be inform so that they could track he down ? in essence , I be ask whether there be any opportunity to prevent this attack from occur . the Home Secretary say that Williams be not previously know to the security service , Counter Terrorism Policing or Prevent . can she tell the House whether Williams be previously know to the police more widely or to mental health service ? this all come just week after a murderous islamist terror attack on a Manchester synagogue and just day after the horrendous murder of Wayne Broadhurst by an afghan asylum seeker , both use knife . although homicide have thankfully fall by about 15 % since 2010 and , as the Home Secretary say , knife crime have fall in recent year , every homicide and every knife attack be one too many . the Minister for Policing and I see the grief it cause at the funeral of 15 - year - old Elianne Andam , who be murder in Croydon just over two year ago . speak in general — not in relation to this incident — do the Home Secretary agree that knife crime and knife homicide figure be still too high , and that we must do yet more ? do she agree that more knife crime offender should go to jail ? this be important because when offender be in jail , they can not attack the public . do she agree that we must ensure that more people who carry knife , especially where they use they to threaten other , be jail ? of course , there be pressure on prison place , but by deport more of the 10 , 000 foreign national in prison , we could create more space . we also need to take more knife off our street , which mean we have to dramatically increase the use of stop and search . a study this year by Professor Lawrence Sherman , the Met ' s former chief scientific officer , find that raise stop and search level in London to 2011 level would lead to a one - third reduction in knife homicide . some complain that stop and search be use disproportionately in relation to some group , but , when measure in relation to the offend population , the disproportionality disappear , as be set out in a recent Policy Exchange study . we should triple the use of stop and search to get knife off our street , and we should introduce year - round surge police in the top 5 % of high crime hotspot , which will include many train station . we must also use technology more . I know that there be work under way at the Home Office on scan for knife at a distance , and it be hope that it can distinguish knife from key or mobile phone . this could help police rapidly identify those carry a knife in a public place . I wonder if the Home Secretary could provide an update on the development of that work , either straightaway or in writing later if she would prefer . I really do think that it could make a big difference . finally , retrospective and live facial recognition can identify want criminal , include those involve in knife crime . in Croydon town centre — the borough that the Minister for Policing and I represent — in the last couple of year around 200 want criminal be arrest use live facial recognition , include two want rapist and other guilty of knife crime who would not otherwise have be catch . crime in Croydon town centre , include knife crime , have go down as a result . the image of innocent passer - by be immediately and automatically delete , which address civil liberty concern . I really hope that the Home Secretary and the Minister for Policing agree that roll out this technology nationally would make a dramatic improvement to public safety , and they will certainly have my full support if they choose to roll it out . I know that everyone in the House want to see knife crime eradicate — today more than ever before , I be sure — so I hope the House will also support the tough step need to eradicate knife crime . we owe the victim of these appalling crime action as well as word . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his remark , in particular his opening remark ; I know that the bravery of all those who face this attack on Saturday have unanimous support across the House , and I thank he for the spirit in which he reflect that . as I say in my statement , the event in Peterborough be now the subject of an IOPC investigation . it be important that I do not say anything that seek to get ahead of that , but I be sure all those question will be answer in the fullness of time . it be standard practice where there have be contact with police in the run - up to an event like this that those matter be refer to the IOPC to investigate and consider . the shadow Home Secretary will know that I also can not say anything that relate to the suspect who have be charge and any prior history , or indeed mental health issue . they would be fact that be material to any future court proceeding , so it would be inappropriate for I , or indeed anybody else in this House , to comment or speculate on those matter today . I would ask that Mr Speaker ' s word at the opening of the statement be remember as question be pose today . I agree with the shadow Home Secretary that knife crime be far too high . this Government be impatient to do everything we can to eliminate knife crime . it be why we have set ourselves an ambitious target . we be pleased to have make some progress , though I agree that there be much more to be do . instead of play politic across the House , I hope that where there be consensus we be all able to work together to bring down the scourge of knife crime in our country . as I say , the number have go in a positive direction . I hope the shadow Home Secretary will welcome that and work with we as we seek to make more progress . the shadow Home Secretary refer to sentencing . I have to say that it be disappointing when Conservative member do not reckon with the scale of the crisis in our prison system . this Government inherit a prison system on the brink of collapse , and it have mean difficult decision ever since we enter office in order to prevent the country from run out of prison place entirely . this Government have deport more foreign national offender since enter office than the previous Government do . despite deport record number of foreign national offender , the scale of the crisis in the prison system mean that there be still more prisoner come into the system than there have be place . it be important that the sentencing reform be see in that context . the majority of those who have be in possession of a knife and use it in a threaten manner do attract reasonably lengthy prison sentence . when we know more about the circumstance of this particular case , we will know if there be other lesson for we to draw and other area of policy for we to consider . the shadow Home Secretary reference stop and search , and I think — I hope that I be not put too much of a spin on his remark — lamented issue about disproportionality . I gently remind he that it be a former Tory Home Secretary in the 2010 to 2015 Parliament who first start speak about the disproportionate use of stop - and - search power and change the rule to reflect the disproportionate use of that power . that be the record of the previous Government . I hope he will recognise that the police already have the power to use stop and search indiscriminately , where the intelligence suggest that that be require . that be an operational decision for police chief . of course , the decision as to whether to stop and search someone , when there be reasonable ground and suspicion , be an individual operational decision for police officer . this be a well used and well understand power . it be an important power in our arsenal for tackle criminality , and the Government fully support its lawful use . the Government will soon consult on a new legal framework to underpin the use of live facial recognition . the shadow Home Secretary will know that when his party be in power , that be leave to individual police force . I believe that South Wales and the Met be the first to roll it out , and they face lot of legal challenge as a result thereof . the Government then do not change their policy , but this Government will consult on a legal framework so that all police force across the country can use live facial recognition technology , confident that they will not find themselves defend those decision in court in the future . I have also support the roll - out of 10 specific live facial recognition unit across the country , and we will look to do more in the come month . in relation to scan for knife , there be much more that we can do to use new and emerge technology to help we tackle this type of criminality . I be happy to write to the shadow Home Secretary about our current plan , but I will set out more on our broad position in the come week . Knife crime be a terrible crime that claim far too many life in our country . it be important that we keep do everything we can to bear down on the damage that it cause and to provide pathway for those who get catch up in the carrying of knife . that be an important bit of policy that we will continue to work on . however , in relation to the attack that we be primarily talk about , I urge the House to wait until more of the fact be know before draw broad policy conclusion . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I thank the Home Secretary for all her remark and the Secretary of State for Transport , who be also in her place , for her comment in the medium this morning . I share , as all hon . member of the House do , their concern for the victim and their family and the recognition of the heroism of so many in the tragedy on Saturday . on behalf of my colleague on the Transport Committee , I pay particular tribute to all the staff of Avanti West Coast and Network Rail , who respond so quickly , and in particular to the train driver who react so promptly to get the train to Huntingdon in order that the emergency service could meet it and the on - board staff member who be in hospital after protect passenger . [ Official Report , 3 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 652 . ] ( Correction ) I know that people may be nervous of travel by train now . I thank the Government and the police service for their work to ensure additional police presence at rail station , as I see at Waterloo on my way here early . as the Home Secretary say , British Transport police have say that its operational assessment of the risk pose on our train have not change , give that this be an isolated attack , so will she assure I that any long - term change to security on our rail service will be consider very carefully once the full fact of this incident be know and that there will not be a rush into change without consider potential downside that may impact on the ease of travel by train ? it be always about balance between ease of travel for million of people every single day and make sure that people be safe , and of course the Transport Secretary and the rest of the Government will ensure that any arrangement — whether we remain with the current arrangement or make any change — always strike the right balance . that be the most important thing . for now , base on our current understanding of this attack , the risk assessment have not change , and although we be provide more reassurance to people so that they feel safe get on train in the aftermath of this attack , there be no proposal to go far at this point . we will of course review that once more when the fact be know . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this attack have leave 11 people in hospital , one of they a member of the train staff , who be in a critical but stable condition . my party ' s thought be with all those affect : the victim , their love one and everyone who witness such a shocking event . we also want to thank the emergency service and rail staff for their swift response , as well as the passenger who intervene to prevent further harm . after this sort of incident , it be vital that the police be give the time and space they need to establish the full fact . that be ever more difficult due to the rapid spread of disinformation online in the immediate aftermath of such attack . within hour , social medium be flood with speculation over the ethnicity and race of the perpetrator , incite racist and islamophobic comment . while community be still reel from the horror of the attack , certain political figure on the hard right , include member of the Reform party , be already seek to exploit the incident for political gain . desperate to involve themselves in the tragedy , they reach for their dog whistle . they throw around baseless opinion on level of crime when fact be available , shamelessly try to turn this tragedy into yet another excuse to whip up fear and sow division . the shadow Home Secretary ' s comment today also veer into that realm . never be an opportunity to blame foreigner miss — that be beneath contempt . at moment like this , those who aspire to leadership must calm fear and attempt to unite , not to inflame tension . do the Home Secretary share my view that while knife crime must be tackle forcefully , it be important that all of we must respond with argument ground in fact rather than try to stoke fear ? can the Home Secretary confirm whether the Government hold datum on violent incident involve knife or sharp instrument where three or more victim be harm in a single incident ? if so , what be the trend over the past two year , or over any other timeframe the Home Secretary have datum for ? finally , she have say that the individual be not know to anti - terror police or Prevent , but when the fact be know , will she confirm that proper lesson will be learn about individual who may pose a risk , be it as a result of mental health issue , an obsession with extreme violence or other relevant factor ? I deplore the ease with which so many armchair warrior feel the need to speculate and spread misinformation on social medium . it be important that the police and all our emergency service be able to proceed with their investigation not only at pace but transparently , so as to calm any tension that might arise as a result of misinformation that spread , particularly across social medium . in term of how other people may or may not have react , I tend to think that at moment of such crisis people normally reveal their true colour . I will leave my remark about other individual there . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that knife crime must be tackle forcefully . as I say early , we have see an 18 % decrease in murder by knife , and I will make sure he receive the further stat that he mention . as I have say , the datum in relation to knife crime be go in a well direction , but like other in this House , I be impatient to see more change happen more quickly . I hope he will work with we on a cross - party basis on all the measure need to achieve that . of course , when all the fact around this case be know and understand , I will ensure that any lesson that there be to be learn will be learn and act upon . may I take this opportunity to put on the record my thank to the first responder , the police and everyone on the train who put their life at risk to protect other ? so many people from the community I represent in both Peterborough and Huntingdonshire have write to I today in absolute fear , shock and confusion at how this could have happen so close to home , particularly after we find out this morning that the charge individual be from my constituency . constituent have also be worried and alarmed about report over the last few hour that the offender may have be involve in further incident in Peterborough and London . will the Home Secretary join I in call for community cohesion follow this incident , and ensure that a full investigation take place into those possible other offence ? I can only imagine how terrifying it must have be for my hon . friend ' s constituent and those in neighbouring area to hear news of this horrify attack . he will know that I can not say any more at the moment about other potential incident — they be the subject of further investigation . as more fact be confirm by the police , we will be able to say more and , of course , the IOPC must be allow to do its work . when we know more about the fact of this case , we will know whether it relate to community cohesion or to wide community issue . I encourage member to wait until more fact be know before we draw those broad conclusion , but I agree with my hon . friend that it be necessary that we reassure community in his constituency and across the country . that be why there be an increase police presence across the transport network and why this government will ensure that , as we know more , where there be lesson to be learn , they will be learn and act upon . this have be a difficult and challenging weekend for Huntingdon . my thought be with the victim of this terrible tragedy ; with the LNER crew member whose heroic and selfless action , place himself in harm ' s way , save life at the cost of his own safety , and who remain in a critical but stable condition ; with the other four victim who remain in hospital with stab wound ; and with the four who be discharge yesterday , as well as those who bear witness to the attack and will still be process their own experience . I would like to place on the record my praise for the emergency service ' response : to cambridgeshire constabulary , whose unarmed response officer and firearm officer be able to place Anthony Williams in custody within eight minute of receive the 999 call ; and to Cambridgeshire fire and rescue service , our air ambulance service , and the East of England ambulance trust for their incident response and for get the casualty to Addenbrooke ' s hospital . I also praise the train driver , Andrew Johnson , and the signal staff , whose speed of thought in move the train on to the suburban line from the high - speed line mean that the train could make the unscheduled stop at Huntingdon — a decision that curtail the attack by several crucial minute , that allow the police to apprehend the suspect and that undoubtedly save life . the swift action of all those involve prevent a horrific attack from be far , far bad . I be sure that the Home Secretary , and indeed the whole House , would wish to share in my sympathy for those impact by this horrific attack , and in my pride in the conduct , leadership and professionalism of the responder and railway staff . I thank the hon . member for both his question and for his own work over the weekend . he be very quick to arrive at the scene . I think that he handle himself with great honour and that he respond in a measured way to such a horrifying incident in his constituency . the way he have handle himself be a credit to he and to the people he represent . of course , I agree with his remark about the bravery of all those who be respond , the speed of the response and the bravery of those inside the train . let I assure he that myself and my official stand ready to work with he and other locally on the ground to ensure that all lesson be learn as we move forward . may I associate myself with the comment about sympathy and empathy for the victim of this attack ? the name of Peterborough and the town of the constituency of the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) have flash across the news here and around the world this weekend because of the terrible event of Saturday night . I do not want my constituency to be know just because of the act of a single perpetrator , so may I put on record my tribute to the police , the train staff , the first responder and other who step forward when action be need ? I pay particular tribute to my constituent , train driver Andrew Johnson , and his ASLEF and RMT colleague on LNER , who go beyond the call of duty on that evening . they show the good of british value , and the true face of the county I represent and its people . we do not know all the information yet , but there be great anxiety in Huntingdon and Peterborough , and this be also a national issue . can my right hon . friend confirm that we will go the extra mile to tackle knife crime and ensure that our street and public transport remain safe for everyone for year to come ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend . he make contact with I and my official very quickly after the attack come to light , and , like other member , he be an assiduous constituency Member of Parliament . I be sure that he will do everything he can to stand up for the people he represent and ensure that the wide area be not taint by the action of the attacker . he be absolutely right to remind the House that we should remember the act not of the attacker , but of those who respond ; they put themselves in harm ' s way to protect people they have never meet before , and they be the very good of we . I pay tribute to all the staff on the train , because they be face with something utterly horrifying , react with immense bravery , and undoubtedly save countless life . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and associate myself with the tribute to the emergency service and the train crew . our thought be with the victim . when we have more information , I be sure that my Home Affairs Committee will want to consider what happen and learn lesson from it . I draw the Home Secretary ' s attention to our inquiry on new form of radicalisation . if thing come out of the investigation that be relevant to my Committee ' s inquiry , I ask that we ensure that we learn from they , and ensure that they be include in the inquiry as soon as possible . I thank the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee for those point . I look forward to work closely with she as we learn more lesson , once all the fact of the case be know . she be right that , more broadly , we be see many new form of radicalisation in this country and across Europe and North America . it be important that we always stress - test and challenge the Government response to those new form of radicalisation . long term , we will need a change in our understanding of what motivate serious violent behaviour . I be sure that she and her Committee will continue their work , and I pledge to work with they as we try to tease out more answer to these problem . I associate myself with the powerful tribute to the train driver , staff and member of the public . the incident demonstrate the importance of have more than one staff member on train . the train guard play a vital role in protect passenger . my constituency be home to Vauxhall and Waterloo — busy mainline station . in under six week , million of people will travel home for Christmas on the public network . they need to be reassure that train travel be an efficient and good way to travel across the country . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary mention that there will be additional resource across the network for the next few week . will that go on into the busy Christmas period ? this issue be also cover by the Department for Transport . as transport geek will know , the British Transport police have a strange funding mechanism : it be fund by the industry , not by the Home Office . as we take on more control of the public network and train service , responsibility for funding will fall to the Government . will the Home Secretary and Transport Secretary consider that , and ensure that the British Transport police be fully fund to protect people on public transport ? thankfully , incident like the one on Saturday be very rare , and our train system be generally very safe — million of people use it every day without incident — so we have a strong base to build on . of course , give what have happen — the horrifying nature of the attack , and the indiscriminate way in which victim be stab — the British Transport police ' s decision to increase the police presence across the railway network be important . how extensive that increase be , and how long it go on , be an operational decision for British Transport police , but we have a good work relationship with it , and I have be impress with its response to this attack . we have be work closely with it over the weekend , and I pay tribute to it and all its officer . I will be lead by British Transport police on the operational decision that it be make . on the wide policy question raise by my hon . friend , as more of the network be nationalise , I will of course pick up those conversation with the Transport Secretary . more generally on knife crime and on magistrate , be there a disconnect between the fact that under the Restriction of Offensive Weapons Act 1959 , someone can be give a custodial sentence of 51 week , and the presumption under the Sentencing Bill that a 12 - month custodial sentence will not be require ? what might the Home Secretary do to get around that and ensure that magistrate have more sentencing power ? possession of a knife be not use of a knife , but sadly one so often lead to the other . there be clearly a legislative disconnect , and I hope the Home Secretary will look at that . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , the average sentence for threaten with a knife be more than a year — it be around 15 month — and it would not be catch by the presumption in the Sentencing Bill . also , the Bill create a presumption against , not a blanket ban on , sentence of under 12 month ; there be still discretion for judge in all case . the Bill set out the circumstance in which that presumption can be overridden , and that will always be a matter for the independent judiciary , base on the fact of the case in front of they . I join other Members in express sympathy to all those who have be affect , and in thank the emergency service , member of the public who get involve , and of course the train crew , who act heroically to protect their passenger . give the development today , and the Home Secretary ' s statement on the incident in east London and Pontoon Dock in my constituency , there be a great deal of anxiety and fear among my constituent in West Ham and Beckton , and I place on record my thank to the police for their engagement with I this afternoon . what assurance can the Home Secretary give my constituent about safety on public transport , particularly in east London , where there be a lot of small , unstaffed , open - access dockland light railway station , which be essential to the daily life of my constituent ? as my hon . friend will know , I be limited in what I can say , give that this be a live police investigation . the police have obviously confirm some of the fact , but their investigation must be allow to continue without further speculation . he make a good point , and I well understand why people in his constituency , or those who regularly use that station , will feel concerned . that be why BTP have increase patrol to provide additional reassurance to the community . nothing at this point suggest that this be a particular location of interest , and I hope that reassure my hon . friend ' s constituent . I echo tribute to the train staff and emergency service , and to the Home Secretary and her team , who I be sure be work flat out all weekend . the case be be investigate , but give the event of Saturday and in the run - up to Saturday night , can I urge she to bring together police chief to talk about information sharing and any further resource that they require ? I be happy to admit that we should not have dilute stop and search , but can I urge she to look again at that ? Northern Ireland be much more permissive , and section 60 need to be review . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark . my experience over the weekend regard the different police force and emergency service who respond to this attack be that they work together very well , and I be pleased to see that level of co - ordination , especially when different force be responsible for different thing . at the start of this incident , counter - terror police be support the investigation . they be stand down , but if they have need to be stand up again , that would have happen almost instantaneously — as soon as the request be make . my initial experience and impression of the collaborative working have be positive , and I pay tribute to everyone involve in it over the weekend . I will take away the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment on information sharing and reflect on what he say . when such a huge incident take place , with lot of information go out in different form , it be important that we ensure complete co - ordination . if he have any specific concern in relation to this incident , I will be happy for he to write to I , and I will respond , but I will pick up that conservation with the National Police Chiefs ' Council and other as well . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that I think that stop and search be a very valuable tool for the police . I will always want to see it use , wherever that be appropriate . my understanding from my conversation with the police so far be that their power work quite well from an operational perspective , but I will always be open - minded and willing to look again at any of these issue , should there be a change in the advice from police or in our experience of how the power be use . I associate myself with the many tribute give to those people on the train who try to prevent the attack , the staff and the responder . as the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , I use the Doncaster to King ' s Cross service most week . many of my constituent and people across Doncaster be deeply shake by this appalling attack , but that service be an indispensable part of our life . will the Home Secretary set out the immediate step that she have take to reassure passenger who use that line , and the good way for we to communicate that message , so that passenger have peace of mind as they travel on the train over the next few day ? we should all take confidence from the speed of the emergency service ' response to the attack , which have draw justify wide praise from across the House . the speed of the response mean that the attack be bring to an end as quickly as possible , and many life , I believe , be save as a result of that response . while the incident be deeply shocking , and I can fully understand that people who use the service regularly will feel shake by the news , we should all take confidence and pride in the fact that our emergency service be able to respond so quickly . the british Transport police have increase the police presence across the network to provide more reassurance to people . thankfully , in this country , incident of this nature across our transport network be very rare , and everyone in this House will want to work together to ensure that remain the case . I join the Home Secretary and my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , in send my thought to the victim and their family . I pay tribute to cambridgeshire police , cambridgeshire fire and rescue service , the East of England ambulance service , the staff at Addenbrooke ' s hospital , the train crew and the passenger for their response on Saturday evening . while respect the ongoing investigation and the Independent Office for Police Conduct process , will she assure the House that the extraordinary bravery and professionalism demonstrate by all those involve in contain the incident and provide lifesave care will be properly recognise in due course ? I agree with everything that the hon . Member say in praise of all those who respond to the attack . once we be through the court proceeding and the full fact of the incident be know , I will ensure that there will be a moment to thank all our emergency service and the brave passenger in an appropriate way , when the time be right . I pay tribute to all the LNER train crew and the train driver for their bravery . their swift action and their extensive training in respond to emergency be undoubtedly critical to save many life . railway staff will be deeply concerned that this terrible incident have take place against a backdrop of year - on - year increase in violent assault on rail staff . what conversation be the Home Secretary have with colleague at the Department for Transport about the resource and support need to keep rail staff and passenger safe on our railway ? I know from my conversation with the Transport Secretary over the weekend that these issue be very much on her mind . there be crossover with those of we in the Home Office , but the responsibility sit primarily with the Transport Secretary . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a full response to her question , but she should rest assure that this Government recognise that assault on any of our public sector worker be unacceptable , and the Government will do everything they can to stamp they out . may I join in with the tribute of my fellow Cambridgeshire mp ? in her statement , the Home Secretary indicate that she be receptive to the deployment of facial recognition at railway station . can she clarify , on the current timeline , the early date on which that would be deploy more widely ? give some of the early lesson come out of this case , what scope be there for the Government to accelerate that timeline ? the consultation I refer to in my early remark around the legal framework for much wide use of live facial recognition will be in the next few week — it be all but upon we . I refer to the funding for 10 new mobile unit that have be make available . the british Transport police be prepare a pilot of live facial recognition technology at select railway station in London , which will run for a period of six month . the exact date will be public in due course , and I will ensure that we write to the right hon . gentleman with they when they be decide . with LNER headquarter in my constituency , I have write to David Horne , the manage director , to offer my support to he and pass on my good wish to his crew . I put on record my thank to the signaller , also base in my constituency , who make it possible to shift the train on to the other line . last summer , I seek to amend the Crime and Policing Bill with an amendment to provide great protection for transport staff in the light of the increase risk they face . with the Bill about to enter Committee in the House of Lords , will the Home Secretary look again at my amendment and ensure that we provide those protection for transport staff ? I will happily discuss with my hon . friend the content of her early amendment . even if it be not acceptable for that Bill , I will ensure that the policy question she raise be pick up by our colleague in the Department for Transport . rise — order . we be run out of time , so I ask for question , and answer , to be short . may I put on record our good wish to the victim and our thank to the emergency service and railway staff , who do a remarkable job ? I know that the Home Secretary can not comment on this particular case , but one concern I have be around the speculation and disinformation that be rife on social medium . can she make it her job to have a conversation with the social medium company ? that kind of speculation do no service to the victim or to the police pursue this issue . the most important thing be that official source of information be able to be transparent as quickly as possible so that the vast majority of this country that do not just get its news from social medium know what be happen . there will be a role for the Online Safety Act 2023 in the future as well . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for bring it to we so promptly . I use LNER every week to come to this place ; I always know that the staff be great , but I do not realise that they be hero . the response we see from both the staff and the public on the train really be the good of Britain , but the response on social medium be absolutely shameful , if I be honest — it shame we as a country . LNER connect Edinburgh South West to destination north and south , and I be sure my resident will be really pleased to hear that we be look at facial recognition on the transport network . that be incredibly important , but I will talk about knife crime more generally . in June , the Government give a commitment to look at the manufacture and sale of round - tip knife and hopefully mandate they . be the Home Secretary able to give we an update on that ? I be sorry for put she on the spot . we will publish a knife crime strategy very soon . I understand the reason why some people think that round - tip knife be part of the solution , and I will consider all the evidence , but in the end million of normal kitchen knife be available . we have to do a much well job on all the other area , such as prevention . I will be very brief . when the Home Secretary undertake lesson learn and recommendation for the future , will she look into the question of whether there be any protective equipment , or even disable equipment of a non - lethal nature , that could be issue to staff for use in such an emergency ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that taser be deploy on Saturday to bring this incident to a close . however , I can assure he that even if that be not part of the wide lesson learn from this case once all the fact be know , I will take his point into consideration . my thought and prayer be with the victim of this brutal attack , and of course I pay tribute to the amazing courage and bravery of the train crew , as well as the first responder . like my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , I have serious concern about the funding arrangement for the British Transport police . can I encourage my right hon . friend the Home Secretary to work with the Secretary of State for Transport and her Department to make sure that BTP ' s funding arrangement be good go forward ? I agree with my hon . friend about the BTP ' s hugely important role . its funding for this year be actually 6 % high than previously , and I be sure the Transport Secretary will do everything she can on the funding front . my thought and those of my Plaid Cymru colleague be with everyone affect by this appalling attack . they be also with the train driver , the crew and the staff , whose quick thinking and decisive action help protect many from the bad of outcome . will the Secretary of State join I in express gratitude for their bravery , and for show we all how crucial the presence of officer and sufficient staffing be to our public safety ? surveillance can help catch criminal , but staff on the ground save live . the hon . Lady make a very good point , and it be undoubtedly the case that the staff on the ground during this incident save life . I echo the Home Secretary ' s comment and the tribute that have already be pay in the House . she will know , though , that the British Transport police be face an unprecedented funding deficit that threaten safety on our railway . there be currently a shortfall of £ 8 . 5 million and a threat to nearly 300 job . will the Home Secretary therefore meet the Transport Secretary to discuss how we can fully fund the BTP as a matter of urgency ? I repeat that the BTP have be award £ 415 million for the year 2025 - 26 , which be an increase of almost 6 % on the previous year . I be sure that the Transport Secretary be consider the wide funding issue . I also pay tribute to those who be on the train , the staff and the first responder , as well as member of the public . can I ask the Home Secretary to consider the comment make by the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) about the new method of radicalisation ? the previous Home Secretary reference they at the Dispatch Box , and I would be very keen to hear the current Home Secretary ' s view on they . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise the issue of the wide form of radicalisation that we be now start to see in this country . she should rest assure that even if they be not relevant to the specific lesson that be draw from this case , they be very much on the mind of all of we in the Government as we seek to meet the scale of the new challenge we face . I fully support the remark make by Stuart Cundy , deputy chief constable of the British Transport police , that the " heroic " action of the LNER staff member undoubtedly save life . at a recent meeting with representative of the Transport Salaried Staffs Association , they raise concern about police budget and the unique pressure face the British Transport police . what discussion have the Minister have with the Treasury to ensure a fair funding settlement , one that safeguard the BTP ' s operational capacity and ensure the continued safety of passenger across our network ? I repeat the early answer I have give in relation to funding . my hon . friend should rest assure that we be discuss these matter with the Department for Transport . in the review , will the Home Secretary undertake to look at the very serious problem of some train operate without any staff on they at all , some very busy train have insufficient staff , and hundred of station all over the country have no staff at all , particularly in the evening , when the travel public be obviously vulnerable and at risk ? can we pause driver - only operate train and look at the issue of safety for the public as a whole ? we will be lead by the operational assessment make by the British Transport police as to what be require . the right hon . Gentleman should rest assure that where the Government have a role to play in keep people safe on the transport network , we will do so . of course , my first thought be with the victim of this horrific attack . the RMT union have call for urgent meeting with the Government , police and the industry to ensure that we have the strong resource and procedure in place to protect staff and passenger . can the Home Secretary confirm that the Department for Transport and the Home Office will facilitate those meeting as soon as possible ? I can assure my hon . friend that the Transport Secretary and I will be discuss all and any lesson to be draw from this incident , and there will be a cross - Government response that meet the scale of the challenge that we face . do the Home Secretary share my deep concern that when incident such as this occur , certain political commentator and , sadly , certain politician race to set the narrative behind such attack as ethnicity - base , faith - base or , ideally , both , rather than focus on the key crime indicator , such as socioeconomic deprivation , the disintegration of youth service , addiction issue , lack of funding for our police force and lack of mental health support facility ? do she agree that those factor matter much more than ethnicity , faith or the migration status of the perpetrator ? the hon . member be get rather ahead of the fact that be currently know about what lie behind this particular attack , so he will understand if I refrain from make broad conclusion about the motivation . I think it be important , learn the lesson of what happen after the Southport attack , that the Government and the police move quickly to make all shareable information available to prevent the spread of disinformation and potential public disorder . rise — order . that be the end of the statement on the response to the Huntingdon train attack . I will give the Front - Bench team a few moment to shuffle over . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I ask that the record be correct ? I inadvertently mention Avanti West Coast . I must have be think of the derailment , and not the tragic incident , which of course be on LNER . [ Official Report , 3 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 640 . ] I thank the hon . member . the correction be now duly on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it really a point of order ? you will tell I whether it be or not , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my constituency , a young man be kill in Portavogie today in a knife attack . I think it would be in order to mention that there and perhaps the House would join I in prayer — order . that be very important , but we can not continue the statement , which have conclude . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think the Home Secretary may have misheard I during my question . I be say that I be not concerned about the disproportionality of stop and search , because when we compare its use with the offend population , there be no disproportionality . I be encourage further use of the tactic . I want to make sure the Home Secretary have hear and receive that message . the shadow Home Secretary have most definitely get that on the record . Public Office ( accountability ) Bill Second Reading 5 . 27 pm I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I come to the Bill , I put on record in this House my own tribute to the police , to the first responder and in particular to the heroic action of the driver and member of staff on board the Doncaster to London train , where such a vile and horrific attack take place this weekend . we all share in the revulsion at this shocking incident , but there be no doubt that their collective action — their brave action — save countless life . I know that the whole country be grateful for that . thirty - six year ago , 97 man , woman and child go to a Liverpool football match in Sheffield — it be an FA cup semi - final , an occasion of joy — and they never come home to their family . I invite the House just to reflect on that simple statement of fact and what that might feel like . nearly 15 year ago , when I be the Director of Public Prosecutions , I meet many of the Hillsborough family during the independent panel lead by Bishop James Jones . I will never forget what they tell I in their testimony — painful to tell , painful to hear . it include the testimony of Jenni Hicks , who tell I how she and her husband drive their two teenage girl to the game that day . they have to drive back later with an empty back seat . every single story , every single experience be painful to the core — unimaginable to the core . so before I come to the content of the Bill , I want to begin this debate with a simple acknowledgment , long overdue , that the british state fail the family and victim of Hillsborough to an almost inhuman level . but those victim and their family — their strength , their courage , their refusal to give up ; and their determination , no matter what be throw at they , to fight for people they will never know or meet , to make sure that they never go through something like this again — they be the reason why we stand here today with this Bill , they be the reason why it will be know as the Hillsborough law , and they be the reason why we say clearly again what should have be say immediately : that their loved one be unlawfully kill and that they never bear any responsibility for what happen in Sheffield that day , and we say it from this Dispatch Box today because the entire country know what happen next . we often call Hillsborough a tragedy , but it be more than a tragedy , because the disaster be not down to chance — it be not an accident ; it be an injustice . and then further injustice be pile on top when the state subject those family to endure , from the police , lie and smear against their love one , while the central state , the Government , aid and abet they for year and year and year . it be a cover - up by the very institution that be suppose to protect and to serve , and it be nothing less than a stain on the modern history of this country . and yet , can we truly say that Hillsborough be an isolated example ? no , because there be also the Horizon scandal , Grenfell Tower , infected blood , the grooming gang , Windrush , and more besides . we should also be blunt about the fact that there be a pattern common to all these scandal : time and again , the british state struggle to recognise injustice because of who the victim be — because they be work class , because they be black , because they be woman and girl . that be the injustice that this Bill seek to correct , and I hope that it command the support of the whole House . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that a couple of thing be miss from this otherwise excellent Bill ? the first be an acknowledgment of the role that the medium play in cover up many of the wrong that happen , and the second be a national oversight mechanism which would ensure that when recommendation be make , they be carry out . I be grateful for that intervention . of course we must acknowledge the role that the medium and other play in this — it be a cover - up at so many level . as for an oversight mechanism , I do not think that the Bill be the place for it , but I do agree with the proposition that when there be inquiry , there need to be a well way of ensure that they be follow through . the Prime Minister have list a litany of scandal where there have be cover - up . will he reflect on include the Chinook disaster , in respect of which there have be repeat attempt to cover up the truth — the state of the aircraft that be send out that night , in which we lose so many value member of our intelligence service ? be that not a wrong that now need to be right ? I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for raise that . this Bill be obviously intend to deal with all the situation in which there need to be a duty of candour , with consequence if that be not adhere to . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will make some progress , but I will take further intervention later . let I now turn to the Bill itself , and first of all to the duty of candour . there be three part to this , and the first be a new statutory duty of candour . at the Hillsborough independent panel , Bishop James Jones find that over 100 statement make by junior police officer have be deliberately alter to remove evidence unfavourable to South Yorkshire police — 100 statement have be deliberately alter . I do not think there be anyone in this House who could possibly disagree that we must never let anything like that happen again . it be a disgrace , and the Bill before the House will tackle it . I commend the Prime Minister and the Government for bring this Bill forward . I think it hearten we all to see its content . do the Prime Minister not agree that , with the rise of social medium , there be more public scrutiny than ever before and less trust in our institution ? as he have outline , the Bill be an opportunity to begin that journey of restore public trust , but we must be mindful that nothing less than accountability can be acceptable . the public understand that mistake can be make , but they can not and should not forget when cover - up take place . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . the Bill include legal provision to ensure that this can never happen again as a matter of law , but I have be clear — I have say this to the family on a number of occasion — that it be also the culture that have to change . the Bill be the architecture , but the culture of the state have to change . Charlotte Hennessy , whose father Jimmy Hennessy be unlawfully kill at Hillsborough , have have conversation with the Prime Minister in which he have assure she that the law do not need to be water down and will be deliver in its entirety . she be in the Chamber today . will he make that promise in this House today ? absolutely . I look the family in the eye and make that promise , and I mean it . I say it again from this Dispatch Box : this Bill will not be water down . this be such an important re - orchestrating of the relationship between the state and its citizen . it will not be water down . I be very pleased to be able to affirm that from this Dispatch Box . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will take one more intervention and then I will press on . I thank the Prime Minister for give way . do he agree that one of the most powerful lesson from Hillsborough , and indeed from the Grenfell Tower and Post Office scandal , be that truth delay be justice deny ? and do he agree that , while this Bill rightly place a duty of candour upon public authority , it must also compel Ministers themselves to uphold that same duty when address this House , so that accountability begin at the very top ? that include the misleading information that be give from that Dispatch Box by his Minister last week in relation to the hooligan Maccabi Tel Aviv fan . I really think that , with the Hillsborough family here in the House with we — Order . I be try to pay close attention , but I may have miss it ; we do not accuse each other of give mislead information at the Dispatch Box . one should be mindful of the language that one be use . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also think that we owe the family a well debate than this descend into party political point scoring . I hope we can continue the debate in that way . this Bill will tackle that injustice so that when tragedy strike and the state be call to account , in inquiry , inquest and other investigation , public official — from police officer to the high office in the land — will be subject to that duty . that mean that an injustice like this can never again hide in some dark corner of the state . failure to comply — failure , therefore , to act with candour , transparency and frankness — will now carry criminal penalty , include be send to prison . as a sponsor of the private Member ' s Bill table by the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , I fully welcome this Bill ' s introduction , and I welcome that the protection include criminal offence of misconduct in public life . can the Prime Minister assure I and other that those new offence will be able to be apply retrospectively ? no , they will not be able to , but that be not a deficiency of this Bill ; it be a long - stand constitutional rule . this will be about offence move forward . but I will just make the point — because I do think it be important — that these measure will apply across the United Kingdom , and I would like to place on record my thank to the devolved government for their collaboration on this . I can also announce that the Government intend to bring forward an amendment to extend this duty to local authority investigation in England , which will make sure that when an inquiry or investigation be set up by a local authority — for example , the Kerslake inquiry into the Manchester Arena bombing — there can also be that duty of co - operation and candour in the search for the truth . I recognise the strength of the case that the Prime Minister be make . he will understand the interest that the Intelligence and Security Committee have in clause 6 of the Bill , which provide for certain exemption for those who work for the intelligence agency . it then say that those people should report internally within their organisation any information that may be of use to an inquiry or investigation . will he give some thought to how the Government might develop a concept of what then happen to that information , about which the Bill be broadly silent ? he will understand that many will be concern to ensure that when information be report internally within the intelligence agency , it none the less find its way to those who should have it , in order to give reassurance about what the Government be seek to achieve more broadly in this Bill . obviously , a lot of thought have be give to the particular issue of the security and intelligence service . the Bill be clear that the duty apply , but have a different way of apply it . I think that get the balance right , and obviously there be various national and public interest to protect in so do . I congratulate the Prime Minister and thank he for bring forward this Bill , which represent an epic struggle by the Hillsborough family , who be to be much admire and praise , but this will extend beyond Hillsborough , as the Prime Minister have say . I thank he on behalf of the family of Christie Harnett , Nadia Sharif and Emily Moore , who suffer great loss under the auspex of the Tees , Esk and wear Valleys NHS foundation trust , which lack a duty of candour when those terrible tragedy strike . I hope that he can give consideration to a full , judge - lead public inquiry , because the family be in search of truth , justice and accountability . to reassure my hon . friend , the House , the family and all other affect by such scandal , these be clause in a Bill that will soon be section in a piece of legislation , but they be more than that : they change the nature of the relationship between the state and its duty to its people . that be so important . yes , this Bill be the legal architecture , but something much big than this have to be put in place . rise — rise — I will take the hon . Lady ' s intervention , then I will come to my right hon . friend . I welcome this Bill . will the Prime Minister reassure I and my constituent that organisation that be contractor for public authority and public body will also be cover the provision of the Bill ? it be important that where responsibility be defer to other body , they too be capture by the clause in this Bill . the hon . Lady anticipate my next point , which I will make before take an intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) . we have to recognise that in some scandal , such as the Post Office Horizon scandal , the boundary between the public sector and the private sector be complicated . in answer to the hon . Lady ' s question , clause 4 of this Bill apply the duty to some private body , particularly those deliver public function and those with relevant health and safety responsibility , as well as relevant public sector contractor — in the Post Office case , Fujitsu — for that very reason . we have to recognise that the boundary be blur , and we need to make sure that the duty extend appropriately . the Prime Minister know that , for over two decade , the legal system fail to provide truth and justice to the Hillsborough family , and it be only a non - legal process — the Hillsborough independent panel — that finally set thing right on the road to truth , justice and accountability . do he see any prospect , therefore , that we will include in the legislation at a later stage provision to ensure that a Hillsborough independent panel - type process can be offer to family involve in future disaster , to try to circumvent the long - stand failure of the criminal justice system to offer truth and accountability to family quickly ? I thank my right hon . friend for her work and campaign on this issue over many year . she make a powerful point about the independent panel . I first meet Bishop James Jones 15 - plus year ago now , and I genuinely think he be among the first to listen properly — know what listening mean — to those who be give evidence to his panel , which be why the report that he make be so well receive and respect . we will certainly give consideration to whether panel like that can serve a useful purpose in future . the Prime Minister be be very generous in take all our question . I congratulate he on introduce this Bill , but can the duty of candour be apply fully to all investigation , include independent panel , and not just statutory inquiry ? do he agree that the command responsibility must rest personally with those in charge , not simply with the institution ? this do apply to non - statutory inquiry , so my hon . friend ' s point be cover in the Bill . I will press on . the second part of the duty of candour be a professional duty of candour for all public servant , because the nolan principle of public service — honesty , integrity , accountability , selflessness , objectivity , openness and leadership — be not some kind of optional extra , but the very essence of public service itself . every public authority will now be legally require to adopt a code of ethical conduct base on those principle , and to set out consequence for staff who do not comply , include disciplinary sanction up to and include gross misconduct . the Bill be a huge step forward for accountability and transparency for family who face what must feel like the most impossible of circumstance . some family live in my constituency and the neighbour constituency of Corby be still try to get clarity about the possibility that dump toxic waste and contaminate land have cause health complication . could the Prime Minister spell out how the Bill will ensure that any public official who abuse their power and try to cover it up will be hold accountable ? yes , I can confirm that . I want to emphasise the point again , because it be so significant , that out of the most unbelievable suffering , these family — these victim — have push for a change that take far too long , but that will now benefit and safeguard people whom they will never meet and never know . I find that kind of campaign humbling , and we thank they for it . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will just make a bit of progress , and then I will take further intervention . finally in relation to the duty of candour , it be underpin by a new criminal offence of mislead the public , which be aim squarely at public servant who wilfully mislead the british people in a reckless , intentional or improper way . in case such as Hillsborough , lie and dishonesty from the state grievously harm the very people it be suppose to serve , and that must never happen again . however , the Bill be not just about the duty of candour , because anyone familiar with how justice fail family and victim must also recognise that the lack of parity in our legal system play a significant role . I remember Margaret Aspinall — I meet she many year ago now , and she be with we today — tell I that she have to scrape together every last penny for legal representation , include the money pay out by insurer for the death of her son James , who at the time be pretty much the same age as my son who come to football with I . that be what she have to do , and we have to recognise that injustice pile on the other injustice . I join other across this House in welcome this important Bill , and I welcome and align myself with all the point the Prime Minister have make . will he join I in pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) for his tireless campaign to push for this law to reach the statute book ? the Prime Minister be absolutely right that grieve family have face the might of the state alone , and be force to crowdfund lawyer while public body hire whole legal army . do he agree that , by guarantee legal aid at inquest , we can finally end those David and Goliath battle for justice once and for all ? I absolutely extend that tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , who I think be at the game and who have campaign tirelessly in this place and beyond to help we get to the position today where we can introduce the Bill . I do pay tribute to he and I be very pleased to do so from this Dispatch Box , as we introduce this important legislation . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will just make some progress and I will come to the hon . member . on the question of parity , what happen and what happen in so many case be that family either have to scrimp and try to find the money for legal representation , or they have none . and what be they meet with — the Hillsborough family be meet with this — at inquest and inquiry , the work people who have have to save for justice ? they have be meet , time and again , by army of state - fund lawyer ; the deep pocket of the state — taxpayer money — have be harness for the explicit purpose of fight against justice . the Bill aim to correct that inequality so that justice and the state serve all , with a new duty on public authority to engage lawyer at inquest and inquiry only where necessary and proportionate , and to ensure that their representative behave with the sensitivity and respect that victim and their family deserve . the Bill will also ensure that no bereaved family have to face an inquest alone , with the large expansion of legal aid in a decade grant access to free legal aid for all inquest where the state be an interested party , so that work people like Margaret and the Hillsborough family will never again be face with such inequality on legal representation , or , as in many case , simply leave with none . I will take the intervention I promise . I thank the Prime Minister . he be speak very powerfully about family and about human story . I commend he for the number of human story he have talk about today in this place . will he agree to meet the family of the Chinook disaster , when 29 life be lose and two pilot wrongly blame ? the family have be consistently refuse even a meeting with Ministers , official and Prime Ministers who have go before . will he do the right thing and meet they , and ensure that the Bill also cover they ? I think there may have be meeting . if not , we will get meeting set up . [ interruption . ] I be be tell that there will be one , but I take on board what the hon . Lady say . I will make sure that there be the appropriate meeting , and will update she on exactly what form they will take and when they will take place . the rebalancing of legal representation be a fundamental change in the balance of power in our justice system , and I genuinely hope that the whole House will support it . take together , the measure in the Bill can be a landmark piece of legislation . I be determined — as I say in an intervention , have give my word to the Hillsborough family and have work in partnership with they on this legislation — that the Bill will not be water down . when it be in statute , it will rank as one of the great act of this Labour Government , a moment when the tireless campaigning of work people to right a historic wrong be finally recognise in this place and make our country well . that be all the campaigner have ever want . this have never be just about Hillsborough and those family ; it have always be about everyone . Madam Deputy Speaker , if they be to come down to this Dispatch Box — I win ' t extend the invitation , because I suspect they readily would — I know , because I have hear they many time before , what they would say . they would say , " you must keep go . this be not do until it be do . " I want to therefore put on record in this House my deep gratitude to everyone who have work with we on the journey to this point : Hillsborough Law now ; my hon . friend the Members for Liverpool West Derby , for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) and for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who be all at the game ; so many hon . member from across Merseyside , past and present , as well , of course , as the Mayors of Liverpool and Manchester , all of whom have never stop fight for this Bill ; Inquest , which facilitate so much of the engagement so we could be a Government who listen ; Bishop James Jones , who chair that crucial Hillsborough independent panel ; the countless other campaign that this issue touch on , many represent in the Gallery today ; and , most of all , Margaret , Steve , Charlotte , Sue , Jenni , Hilda and every single member of the family affect by Hillsborough . I know that what they really want be not thank or acclaim ; they want change and they have wait 36 long year for change . it be my honour , as Prime Minister , to bring the Hillsborough law before the House and to open today ' s debate . it should never have take this long , but we be here now and we must get it over the line : a legacy of justice , change and national renewal for the 97 . that be what we be here to deliver today . I call the shadow Minister . today be the day that , first and foremost , at the front of our mind will be one group of people , some of whom join we in the Gallery : those harm by the state , those mislead by the state , those lie to by the state . but those same people refuse to accept that and would not take no for an answer . those people know the truth — the truth of what happen to they and to their relative — and fight on to make sure everybody else know it as well . the movement towards great accountability and transparency in public life owe everything to they . the Hillsborough disaster stand as the example that many of our constituent will perhaps think of first . ninety - seven life be lose on 15 April 1989 , and many other be profoundly affect , as the Prime Minister so powerfully articulate . as the Prime Minister also point out , among they be a Member of this very House . the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) be 16 year old at the time and be a spectator at the match . he have be an unrelenting advocate for those who share with he the horror of that day and what happen afterwards . as if the tragedy of those event be not enough , what follow serve only to compound it over generation . in the decade that follow , despite multiple inquiry , review and inquest , the truth of what happen remain obscure by lie — by a cover - up . we would all wish to be able to say that this be the only example of institutional defensiveness , of cover - up and of the reputation of organisation be prioritise over do what be right , but as this House sadly know , it be not . between the 1970 and early 1990 , thousand of UK patient contract HIV and hepatitis after receive contaminate blood , blood product and tissue . reflect on the finding of his inquiry into the matter , Sir Brian Langstaff say quite simply that : " People put their faith in doctor and in the government to keep they safe and their trust be betray . " experimentation , deception , cover - up . and there be more example . we have all be shock to hear about the trauma and experience of our postmaster and their family , as they be ruthlessly pursue by the Post Office and the Crown Prosecution Service over many year , with the failure of successive government to exercise their oversight to protect they . we have see other failure in healthcare , policing and housing , some well known and other not so well know . but whether 97 life be lose or just one , the impact on family be lifelong and severe . the theme have be consistent : the resistance of the state to accept its wrongdoing ; the aggressiveness of the state in respond to challenge ; and the willingness of individual work for the state to put themselves first over the people they be expect to serve . again and again , David and Goliath battle be play out as the resource of the state , in all its form , have be deploy against innocent people , innocent victim . as we reflect on the propose measure before we , it be sensible to consider the change that have be make in this area . on legal representation , the mean test for legal help and representation at inquest for application to the exceptional case funding scheme have be remove and we have see a steady number of application over recent year . measure be introduce to promote candour in policing , when the offence of police corruption be create in 2017 . in the health service , the duty of candour be introduce follow the Francis inquiry into catastrophic failing in health at Stafford hospital . through part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , we legislate for the creation of an Independent Public Advocate , whose role be to ensure victim and bereaved family be properly support and represent after major incident . however , a desire to do more have remain . Bishop James Jones ' s report , " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " , reflect on the experience of the Hillsborough family and set out key lesson for public body . it call for the bereaved to have " proper participation " at inquest where public authority be represent , and identify other key area for reform ; alongside work by the Law Commission , it provide a key basis for the Bill before we . it should be note , however , that Bishop James emphasise that legislation alone be insufficient . as mention , a statutory duty of candour already exist in part of the public sector , particularly in the NHS , but question mark remain over the success of its implementation . the lesson be clear : legal change must be accompany by cultural change . in principle , we welcome the aim that underpin the Bill and which we be ask to consider on Second Reading . it be , however , always incumbent on this House to reflect on and consider whether the legislation we pass be as good as it can be , no matter how laudable the aim , and to ensure that we avoid any unintended consequence . it be no secret that despite a very long - stand commitment on the Labour Benches to bring legislation of this nature forward , the Government themselves wrestle with how to do so appropriately . this Bill should be one that member scrutinise closely . member and our staff be quite rightly on the extensive list of public servant who will be in scope , under schedule 4 . we will be able to look at the implication of the Bill and reflect on how it might interact with our work , where contention and disagreement be often at the heart of our decision . as such , there be a number of question and point for consideration that I would like to raise with the Government . first , be we sure that the language in the Bill will provide the necessary legal clarity to underpin its successful operation ? the Bill make use of term like " reckless " and " seriously improper " . it also state , for example , that the Act be design to " ensure that public authority and public official at all time perform their function … in the public interest " . how often do we disagree in this House on what constitute the public interest ? how often do we question the truth of what be be say ? although superficially it might seem obvious — in the example we have consider today , which be at the forefront of our mind , the failure to act in the public interest be clear and unquestionable — in other situation , we might be leave with conflicting view as to what the public interest be . how will we differentiate between interpretation of the public interest in a way that do not allow individual to escape the measure be propose in the Bill ? we have see government decision that the Government consider to be in the public interest challenge repeatedly , and often successfully , in the court . individual public servant will also have their own view on what be or be not in the public interest ; we will need to consider that , too . far , how will the Bill be utilise by campaign group that wish to legally challenge the Government in support of what they consider to be in the public interest ? that be not to say that we can not make the Bill work , but we need to consider its terminology carefully . part of the Bill deal with misconduct in public office . this represent one of the most significant change to the way in which we hold public official to account . under the proposal , the common law offence of misconduct in public office will be replace with two new statutory offence : seriously improper act , and breach of duty to prevent death or serious injury . this follow recommendation by the Law Commission , which suggest that the current offence be replace with a clear statutory provision that be both less broad and easy to interpret . the Opposition fully recognise that this be an area of the law in need of clarity , but , for all its many imperfection , the common law offence have at least provide flexibility as a means of address serious misconduct that might not fit clearly into an approach base on specific statutory offence . I would be grateful for the Government ' s reassurance on that point . will the Government also share their view on the reduction in the maximum penalty from life imprisonment , as available under the current common law offence , to between 10 and 14 year ' imprisonment under the statutory offence ? misconduct in public office strike at the heart of public trust in Government and the rule of law , and we must ensure that the penalty available to the court reflect that seriousness . the area where I would most welcome assurance be in consider whether the measure in the Bill will fall most squarely and most strongly on the right shoulder . in its critique of the exist legal framework for misconduct in public office , the Law Commission say there be " a concern that it tend to be use primarily against relatively junior official , rather than more senior decision - maker that member of the public might more readily expect to be hold criminally accountable . " of course , public servant , no matter how junior , be accountable for their action , but how can we be sure that these measure will ensure that accountability go all the way to the top ? we all know that influence and power can be exercise over junior staff without there ever be an email , write instruction or any other proof . junior staff in an organisation with the wrong culture can come to understand what be expect of they and that there be consequence if they do not comply , regardless of what we might be able to readily prove in court . I know that this Bill will be deeply welcome by campaigner and member who have long call for its measure . I mention one particular Member at the start — the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby — but I know that member across the House , across different cause and across different constituency have challenge these issue . the principle of what the Government be try to do — to stop the voice of the state and public body drown out the voice of our constituent , whether through use of resource or misconduct — be the right one . we all know the fallibility of the state and the way in which the wrong people take the wrong decision for the wrong reason : for their self - interest , to protect themselves or to protect their organisation . no Bill alone can guarantee against that , and perhaps there be way in which this Bill can be improve . however , the opposition welcome the start of its consideration , and we stand ready to play a constructive role . this be the first time that any Government have bring forward legislation to tackle what go wrong at Hillsborough . it be a fulfilment of a labour manifesto commitment and a commitment by my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister , and I congratulate he on it . I rise to support the legislation . the duty of candour with effective sanction and equality of arm be all good , and will make a difference . however , I think that the Bill should also seek to boost the power and capability of the office of the new Independent Public Advocate , and I want to explain why . I be first elect to this House in May 1997 , and I have be make speech about the Hillsborough disaster and its aftermath ever since . the disaster happen a full eight year before I be elect more than 28 year ago . as a trainee lawyer in Liverpool , I get to know some of the bereaved family only a year after the disaster , in 1990 , as they seek to recover damage for nervous shock , which be a way of reach a legal finding of culpability against the police . the bereaved family do not want to make money ; they want the police to accept the blame that they should have accept . this be one of a number of legal action ongoing at the time . I work on some of those case at the direction of my principal , who be on the steering committee of solicitor conduct that civil litigation , and while I do not have conduct , I be familiar with matter and meet some of the family at the time . some of the bereaved family become constituent of mine when I be elect in 1997 . indeed , some of the very first meeting I have with constituent after my election be with member of the executive of the Hillsborough Family Support Group — Trevor and Jenni Hicks , Hilda and Phil Hammond , and Doreen Jones , who between they lose five family member at Hillsborough . four of they be my constituent , and three of they still be all these year later . I think that my long and close involvement with some of the family give I some insight into what go wrong , and I have some observation . my first observation about the disaster , as I have allude to already , be that the legal system — the entire justice system — show itself to be totally unable to deal properly with the aftermath or even to fulfil its basic function in the face of a national disaster . this disaster unfold live on tv at a very high - profile national event ; we all see what happen . there be a large appetite in society to get to the bottom of what have happen . within four month of the disaster occur , the interim report of the public inquiry by Lord Justice Taylor have correctly identify the loss of police control as the main cause of the disaster , excoriate South Yorkshire police for its attempt to evade responsibility for what occur by try to blame Liverpool fan and tell the force to modify its behaviour . that be where truth and accountability could have be establish . but South Yorkshire police simply ignore the finding of the public inquiry and use all subsequent legal proceeding — all pay for with public money , with expensive lawyer do the job — and most notably the first inquest , to redouble its effort to evade responsibility . eight year of legal action have fail to get to the truth by the time I be elect in 1997 . there be no justice for those involve , and particularly for those who , as we now know , be unlawfully kill at Hillsborough . there be not a sniff of accountability for those whose gross failing have lead to the disaster or those whose subsequent behaviour in blame the victim and survivor lead to so much anguish over so many year for so many family and survivor . that be despite the fact that every possible kind of legal action have be undertake in that time — none of they work . once the justice system get it wrong , and appeal and judicial review do not succeed , it be almost impossible to get it right subsequently use the same system . it seem like the truth do not matter to the justice system . the system be content to settle on a lie , with inquest verdict of accidental death and no criminal or disciplinary proceeding for those at fault . it be content to allow the perpetrator to peddle the appalling falsehood that the disaster be cause by Liverpool fan be drunk , late and ticketless . this be a South Yorkshire police cover story , and what they aim at establish as the truth through the systematic changing of police statement . that effort fail spectacularly at the public inquiry and be repudiate within four month of the disaster , but the justice system allow the perpetuation of this mendacious false narrative by those who have be identify as at fault : senior South Yorkshire police officer . the first inquest allow ongoing report in the newspaper for over a year about the inqu proceeding , firmly to establish in the public mind that the false narrative be true . it be as if the public inquiry and its finding have never happen . those who have cause the disaster be retire early on enhance pension . Society get the impression that the disaster be about football hooliganism , and the unlawful killing be say to be just " an accident " — despite the finding of Lord Justice Taylor in the public inquiry . that be where the justice system , and the lawyer and judge , get we to . the way I see it , the justice system might properly be say to have fail in all respect and at every turn in this most appalling miscarriage of justice imaginable . the legal system fail . multiple lawyer , judge and cause of action fail : fail to get to the truth , fail to do so in a timely fashion and fail to make those responsible accountable . the system fail the bereaved family , it fail the survivor and it fail those who die . to the extent that this Bill suggest that more lawyer and an equality of arm before the law be enough to guarantee truth and justice , I say it be not enough . that , to I , be one of the main lesson of Hillsborough , and I say that as a lawyer , because I be indeed a lawyer . it be a good thing that an equality of arm be to be set up in legal proceeding , and it be a good thing that family can get the help that they need . I support that , but it do not guarantee truth , justice or accountability . I have meet many family bereave by public disaster — not just those affect at Hillsborough but the MV Derbyshire family , the Alder hey organ scandal family , Manchester arena bombing family — and they all want pretty much the same thing . they want the truth , and they want it as quickly as possible . they want accountability for those at fault , not official cover - up . they do not want any other family to go through what they have endure ; they all say that — they want lesson learn and what go wrong put right for the future . that be simple . it be not too much to ask . those be the three test by which I judge the adequacy of legislation that set out to learn the lesson of Hillsborough , include this Bill . I be a sponsor of the Public Authority ( accountability ) Bill , introduce in 2017 by Andy Burnham , which be the precursor to this legislation . I can see nothing wrong at all with have a duty of candour in statute . it help get across to public official subject to it the importance of tell the truth to inquiry and investigation and that their function should be carry out with candour , transparency and frankness . I would have hope that they would all have know this anyway , but apparently some of they need to be remind . I note that this legislation take up more rather more page establish a duty than the original 2017 Bill , but I have no doubt that these change and their import will be fully scrutinise in Committee and we can understand the intention fully . I know that there will be significant interest in the legislation , not only in this House but in the other place . Bishop James Jones ' s 2017 report — " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " , which be about the lesson learn from Hillsborough — recommend , along with his 24 additional point of learning , enact Andy Burnham ' s Public Authority ( accountability ) bill . however , lie liar be go to lie , and although I be not convince that , have this legislation be in place at the time of Hillsborough , the cover - up would not have be attempt , I be gratified to see — this be certainly the case — that there would have be more opportunity to punish those catch lie when they be catch . the more serious punishment in the Bill for breach a duty of candour be a good thing , but would this have stop the cover - up or the long year of agony endure by family and survivor ? we have to take this opportunity — it will be the only one — to enact legislation that have a chance of achieve this . I have spend the last few year try to tackle the way in which we deal with the aftermath of disaster from a slightly different angle . since 2016 , I have be introduce to the House an independent public advocate Bill , which I have work on with Lord Wills in the other place . he have be introduce it there since 2014 . it be draft after work we do with some Hillsborough family and those affect by other disaster . it arise out of the follow insight . the legal system have fail repeatedly in the aftermath of disaster , but the Hillsborough independent panel succeed spectacularly . it be establish in 2009 by the Labour Government of Gordon Brown after the 20th anniversary of Hillsborough , and it report in 2012 , under the Conservative Government , who allow it to complete its work despite the era of austerity , thank in large part to Theresa May . finally , the truth that the South Yorkshire police have try to cover up for all those year be establish in the public consciousness . the fan be not at fault . the police cause the disaster . many of those who die could have be save have they receive timely medical assistance . the police engage in an appalling cover - up , and set out to deflect blame from themselves on to fan , include by attempt a wholesale revision of police witness statement to well reflect the cover - up story , and to erase any statement that seem to point the blame at senior officer . they also take blood alcohol reading , even from the child who die — the young be 10 , let we remember — to try to smear they as somehow be at fault . there be shocking revelation in the report , and it lead to an immediate re - appraisal of the public view of what have occur . it lead to an apology to the family by David Cameron , the Prime Minister of the day , and a strike down of the accidental death inquest verdict , which be eventually substitute with unlawful killing verdict — but not before South Yorkshire police have again try to tell its cover - up story , over an agonising two - year legal process , in the second inquest . this be a terrible ordeal for family , and it only conclude in 2016 . the Hillsborough independent panel be not a legal proceeding . it be about the transparent release of document , freedom of information , and a narrative account arise out of the study of the document . lawyer be not involve . the Bill that I keep introduce to the House would enable a public advocate to assist family in get to the truth much soon , in the event of a disaster , because it would replicate that same process at a much early stage in the disaster ' s aftermath . I believe that would promote the telling of truth at a much early stage . shine the light of transparency on the activity of public official in the aftermath of a disaster will torpedo cover - up before they can get very far — and at a significantly low cost to the public purse and fast than our justice system have show itself able to . the Hillsborough independent panel do in two year what the justice system have fail to do in 24 year . this kind of proceeding have the potential to enable family to side - step the year of overlap legal action that they get catch up in after public disaster . I think it would be a useful addition to the armoury for family who want the truth and accountability quickly , and who want lesson to be learn . family bereave by public disaster should have the option of ask for such a process at a much early stage in the aftermath , and that should be up to they . a version of the Independent Public Advocate be bring in by the previous Government towards the end of their time in office , and an appointment to the office have be make by the current Government . however , I do not believe that she have sufficient power or resource to do the job that my Bill envisage be do . I may well try to explore in Committee , where it be in order , what can be do about that . I believe that provision for an independent public advocate would increase the range of option for bereaved family in the aftermath of public disaster like Hillsborough . it would mean that family have a great choice of how to take forward their effort . it would be a good addition . the truth , quickly ; accountability , not cover - up ; justice for those affect ; and lesson learn and swiftly , and implement so that nobody else have to suffer the same way — that be what family want , and this Bill must be judge on how well it promote those aim . I think it will do so very well . rise — member can see that the debate be heavily subscribe , so when I get to Back Benchers , speech will be limit to six minute . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a privilege to follow the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) . I thank she for her impassioned speech , and for shine a light on a broken system since 1997 . today be her day , as much as it be the day for all those campaign for change . on 15 April 1989 , fan of Liverpool football club undertake what everyone assume would be a routine pilgrimage to watch their team play Nottingham Forest in the FA cup semi - final ; it would be anything but that . as everyone will know , that match at Hillsborough stadium be to descend into carnage and commotion , cause a mass crush in the fence section housing Liverpool supporter . it lead to 97 fatality and hundred of injury , as well as immeasurable trauma for the family and friend of the victim , and leave a dark mark on our nation ' s history . the Hillsborough disaster be now talk about in school , but it be not just a moment consign to our history book ; it have serve as a catalyst for change , which we finally see bring here today . immediately after the disaster , question be ask about how and why such a tragedy could occur , and immediately the path to truth be block by people in position of power and trust . it be abundantly clear now that a system be in place that allow the narrative to be fill with lie , aim at protect the public body who bear responsibility for the safety of those fan attend the match . in the day and week that follow , blame be pin on the Liverpool fan — the victim — by section of the medium . story be feed to journalist by those who be ultimately find responsible for the disaster , which undermine inquiry into the event . the false allegation of drunkenness and hooliganism paint a dark stain over the victim and their family , which hinder their attempt to grieve and seek justice , and prevent any meaningful learning from the tragedy for many year . condition on the public body and in the justice system provide the perfect environment for a co - ordinate cover - up , design to absolve South Yorkshire police of blame and all they to protect their own . their action lead to decade of delayed justice . family be deny the truth , and individual whose failure have cause the tragedy remain in power . the tireless and heroic campaigning of the victim ' family and the survivor of Hillsborough have slowly uncover the truth that the stadium ' s dangerous design be well know , and that the police make catastrophic decision on the day that cost life , but it have be an uphill battle . ordinary people with limited resource be force to push back against state institution , fight with the odd stack against they at every turn . I pay tribute to those campaigner , many of whom be in the Gallery , for their courage and perseverance over 36 long year . their effort have bring we to the point at which we can begin to level the play field for countless other affect by miscarriage of justice , be it the Post Office scandal , infected blood , Grenfell , nuclear weapon testing , pelvic mesh , LGBT veteran or any of the many other . these be scandal in which countless individual have lose their life or livelihood , or suffer life - change injury . those scandal have be uncover , despite the good effort of public institution to keep they bury . institution that should have be transparent and accountable instead use public money to protect their reputation and deflect blame . every single victim deserve well . the Bill be long overdue , but it will finally allow basic value of fairness to be restore within our justice system . a duty of candour , provide a basic but essential level of transparency and fairness , and a duty for public official to act with openness when deal with public investigation , be vital step support by the Liberal Democrats and hon . member across the House . the Bill also offer a crucial opportunity to push for cultural change in public organisation that be outside the legislation . it mark a shift away from defensive , inward - look approach that prioritise reputation over responsibility , and a move towards an open , learn culture that put the public first and learn from mistake , rather than conceal they . public body should welcome these reform as a means of rebuild public trust and avoid the draw - out , costly legal process that have so often characterise past scandal . the two new statutory offence — one for those who fail to fulfil the duty of candour , and the other for those who mislead the public while in office — be welcome and necessary addition . they will serve as consequential reminder for those in public office that their primary duty be to the public , and that they must go beyond self - interest . the introduction of provision on proportionality and cost - effectiveness be a welcome step that will not only increase fairness but ensure that taxpayer money be never spend silence victim . the extension of non - means - test legal aid to bereaved family at inquest be also long overdue and greatly need . for too long , the system have be weight against ordinary people seek justice . those seek to bring these scandal into the light have face well resource and highly motivated public body intent on protect their reputation . end the need for large - scale public fundraising will ensure that everyone , regardless of wealth , have an equal opportunity to be hear . however , the liberal Democrats believe that there be gap in the legislation . we will , of course , engage with the Government collaboratively and constructively throughout the Bill ' s stage . on legal aid , we be concerned that the measure be too limited , as they support only the family of bereaved victim . those who be seriously injure , or who , as in the Horizon scandal , have lose their livelihood and can not afford legal challenge be not support by the Bill , and will still face burdensome legal aid test . there be precedent from the infected blood scandal and the Post Office scandal for extend legal aid support beyond the bereaved family . there be also instance of misconduct that should be capture in the Bill . official who be not actively engage in wrongdoing , but who be turn a blind eye to it , should be hold accountable . the Bill also fail to address day - to - day decision make outside formal setting . we have see an increase number of case in which communication on service such as WhatsApp have go miss prior to investigation . an example be the covid inquiry . that represent a major gap in accountability . these communication must be include in future investigation , as we be move into a world where we use such service more frequently in work life . many of these scandal have come to light because of the brave work of whistleblower — individual who have share information at great personal risk , while stand up against entrenched power structure . the Liberal Democrats have long call for the strengthening of whistleblowe protection to ensure that wrongdoing in organisation and public body be swiftly expose and bring to justice . we therefore call for the UK ' s whistleblowe framework to include anonymous reporting , legal representation funding and a statutory duty on organisation to foster a speak - up culture . as in our manifesto , we call for an independent office for the whistleblower , which would be transformative in enforce standard in whistleblowe case . we would also like the Bill to be implement immediately after Royal Assent . campaigner such as those at Hillsborough Law now have fight for year to ensure the enacting of these change , and victim should not have to wait a moment long for they to be introduce . finally , we have a concern , which I think be share across the House — it have be reflect in the opening speech — about the lack of redress from the medium . in many of the scandal that we have discuss , the amplification of falsehood and the blaming of victim have be a recur issue . in the case of Hillsborough , the Sun conspire with South Yorkshire police to spread the lie that the fan be responsible . medium regulation remain largely unchanged since the original Leveson inquiry , despite its recommendation . the second part of that inquiry , which would have examine the relationship between the press and the police — precisely the issue in case like Hillsborough — be never complete . the Government call for integrity , and Labour have promise Leveson 2 in the past . much more need to be do to strengthen accountability , transparency and openness , include within social medium company . the Molly Rose Foundation , which campaign on suicide prevention , have correctly point out that despite recent power on disclosure target social medium company , those organisation have significant commercial and reputational incentive to delay and obstruct investigative proceeding . we support the call for an amendment to the Bill that would extend the duty of candour to social medium company , so that those organisation be hold to account in the same way . it would be helpful if the Minister confirm whether that be in the scope of the Bill . we be all familiar with the many failing at the heart of public institution that have , in recent year , be bring to light by brave individual who be prepared to speak out against organisation that should have be trustworthy . many of those campaigner be here to see the law finally progress today . it be to their credit that the legislation will bring improvement in public standard , accountability and transparency that will spare other from suffer what they have to endure . I thank they . we look forward to scrutinise the Bill far and ensure that it deliver for our public service and our citizen . it be a privilege to be here today debate a Bill that have be decade in the making . before I begin , I want to join those who have already speak in pay tribute to the tireless campaigning of the Hillsborough survivor and those who lose love one in the disaster . they have be through an unimaginable ordeal span decade , but throughout they have show remarkable courage , dedication and tenacity to deliver justice for their love one . even after the truth about the tragedy emerge , the family have not stop campaign . they have long call for a systemic change to prevent anything like this from happen again . we as a country owe a great debt of gratitude to their effort , because without they we would not be debate this Bill today . as someone who grow up in a part of the world that have live under the shadow of Hillsborough , I know how much this mean to my constituent , and not least to the family of those that have lose love one , so I be proud that we have act on the pledge that we make to implement this law . the Bill address the key problem that we have identify time and again . how will we ultimately judge whether the Bill be a success ? two word : never again . that be the standard against which the Bill must be hold . never again should victim be wrongly blame by the state for their death . never again can we allow public body that be mean to protect we to lie in order to protect their own reputation . never again must ordinary people fight tooth and nail against the seemingly endless resource of the state just to get to the truth . as we have hear , Hillsborough be by far not the only example of the scandal and cover - up that have emerge in recent year . the well - rehearse list get long every year , and it include infected blood , the Post Office , Grenfell , nuclear test veteran and many other that we have debate in this place . the test be that we do not add to that list , and that when tragedy strike again and serious mistake be make , truth and accountability be on display immediately . let we be clear , legislation be only the starting point for this . as the Prime Minister say , a culture change be also require . establish a legal duty of candour that require body to act proactively , promptly and with full disclosure to assist inquiry , inquest and other investigation be a huge step forward , but it have to be deliver in practice , and that be the real challenge that we face . all too often — we have see it in this place , have we not ? — institution act defensively , obfuscate and focus on protect themselves when place under scrutiny . with the guidance provide by code of ethic and the threat of criminal sanction , body and those work inside they should be force to refocus and to put the public and their safety as their no . 1 priority , not to lie , and to actively support investigation and inquiry . that be what the public expect institution to be do already . while it should never have be require , this Bill will enshrine that basic principle into law at long last . as we have see in the NHS , however , that be easy say than do . it be nearly 10 year since the freedom to speak up guardian be introduce , but from what I can observe , there be still a long way to go to ensure that the good intention behind that initiative be truly embrace across the board . only in the past week I have be contact by several people currently work in the NHS who believe that their concern have not be listen to , or that they have be on the end of mistreatment because they have speak out . legislation be one thing , but culture be another , and I would suggest that change the culture be something that need leadership and buy - in from every single person across every single part of every single organisation . I want to say something about equality before the law . victim must no long be browbeat by lawyer in their quest for the truth , but I have some concern about how that will work in practice , because when a public body be look at something serious under this Bill , which it inevitably will , it will want the most senior representation it can get . if a public body can afford hundred of pound an hour for its lawyer , it will instruct they , but such fee will clearly be well in excess of exist legal aid rate . in that scenario , who be go to tell the public body that it have to choose cheap lawyer ? how will true equality before the law be achieve , especially if authority only have to " have regard " to these principle ? we need an overarching , independent way of monitor this and of ensure that recommendation from inquest and inquiry be effectively publicise and their implementation be monitor and deliver , ideally with progress report to this place . clause 6 relate to the intelligence agency , and there be an exemption for those who handle material that fall within the definition of security and intelligence . our constituent will want to be certain that these organisation have oversight , so would the hon . Gentleman agree that this could be an additional power for the Intelligence and Security Committee ? that be an interesting suggestion . I think a lot of member be concerned about how this will relate to the security service , because we have have many example in the past of where they have do thing that we would rather have not happen . I hope that , as the Bill progress , there will be some good dialogue about an appropriate way to deal with those difficult balance that have to be achieve . I also want to raise a couple of concern about clause 11 and the offence of mislead the public . the requirement for there to be " harm " to a victim could significantly reduce its effectiveness , which aim to deter cover - up and obfuscation . in addition , part 2 of the Bill go on to define who be include within the definition of a public body , and it specifically exclude the devolve body and both Houses of Parliament . I know that be because of the long - stand convention that Parliaments deal with their own affair , but I be concerned that this send out a negative message about our responsibility in this matter . Parliament have in the past allow other body to become involved in the way it do business with , for example with the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , so there be precedent there for we to look at that again . we should all be treat equally before the law . when trust and confidence in our institution be at an all - time low , it be hard to underestimate the impact of the change this Bill can deliver , but it should apply to everyone equally . repeat example of scandal and state cover - up be corrosive to trust and only serve those who want to sow division , so we have to get this right . this moment can mark a stark change in the way we deal with these issue , but we have to deliver it . once it become law , we have to be consistent and vigilant to ensure that the Bill ' s good intention be deliver . that will mean a profound cultural shift . hopefully the Bill will restore trust in our democracy and our institution , so that when in future we say that something should never happen again , we can be confident that it will not . on Saturday 15 April 1989 , I visit my grandfather . I be a 15 - year - old boy , and he have be take into hospital a week or so before after a heart attack . he be a former chief constable in Wiltshire police . his immediate and clear response to what have happen that day be to say that the police be at fault . two day later he die and we never follow it up , but that conversation have a profound effect on I . over the year since , as I aspire to come to this place , I have see what have happen . it be truly lamentable that the british state fail to come to term with what happen . I have listen to the speech from the Prime Minister and the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) with a degree of humility at their determination to change what have happen in this country over many , many scandal . I want to make a small contribution this evening to reflect on my exposure to the infected blood scandal when I be in office as a Minister until last year . I also want to pay tribute to my successor , the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office , the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) , who have do an excellent job in take forward what be require in the spirit of the cross - party consensus that exist on this issue . I completely support the principle of the legislation before the House this evening , and I be totally clear about the inadequacy of the exist mechanism for hold public official to account . over 18 day I visit 40 group who have be affect and infect as part of the infected blood scandal , and every one of those people I speak to have have a negative experience with officialdom at some point during their time seek justice for themselves or their love one . it be profoundly depressing to think that , despite all the apparent determination of Government after Government and Minister after Minister , we be still deal with this 40 or 50 year after the scandal occur . it be a tragedy that we can no long rely on common law offence and have to move to a statutory regime that codify expectation , but I do believe that this legislation will bring great scrutiny and interrogation of the act and omission of public body . I want to make a point about public inquiry . they have grow significantly in number in recent year . as of last month , a record 25 public inquiry be open . between 1990 and 2025 , 87 public inquiry be launch , compare with just 19 in the previous 30 year . despite their proliferation , inquiry often fail to deliver timely justice or to prevent future tragedy . in fact , they be take long than ever to conclude . I do hope that , as part of the response to those fact , we collectively examine what we think should happen in public inquiry . public inquiry can not be shut down by accountable Government Ministers ; they rely on the chair to shut they down . I be look at the infected blood public inquiry , and I be not cast any doubt over the integrity of the chair , Sir Brian Langstaff , but upwards of £ 150 million have be spend on that inquiry . I feel that it be wrong that we in this House , send here to do a job of work in whatever area of Government , have get into the habit and practice of delegate more and more responsibility for resolve matter to arm ' s length body and public inquiry in the belief that it will create a more virtuous , correct and timely outcome . do the right hon . Member agree that one of the main purpose of the Bill be to stop the cover - up and save the public purse money ? I absolutely do , and I sincerely believe that it be likely to achieve that , but we must not miss the opportunity to reflect on what be go wrong with this principle of not take more proactive responsibility for wrong that have happen . my exposure through the infected blood compensation scheme teach I that over 40 year there have be deliberate attempt to slightly change the emphasis in response , to give a concession of a little bit of compensation here or there . the truth be that those delay — most importantly — make thing massively bad for the victim , but they also cost the public purse enormous sum of money . I welcome this legislation , but I ask the Minister to address that point when she respond . Bishop James Jones refer in 2017 to : " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " . what a powerful phrase , and one that should humble all of we and help we all to ensure that whatever provision , whatever definition , and whatever " candour , transparency and frankness " mean , the legislation be enforceable and meaningful and that we can avoid some of the absolutely appalling outcome , which have be so horrendous in undermine the general public ' s confidence in this place and in our government . today be the culmination of over three decade of determined advocacy and persistence by a dedicated group of campaigner in search of social justice , many of whom be in the Gallery and be refer to by name by the Prime Minister . I wish to put on the record my thank and admiration to all those who , in many case , have put their own life on hold in their search for justice — a justice deny for so long to so many people . it should not have take this long , and we be still not quite there yet . but a significant milestone have be reach , and I thank the Prime Minister for his commitment today and his commitment to ensure that the Bill will not be water down , and I thank the ministerial team as well . the time have arrive to deliver on the promise make to the family and friend of the victim of so many scandal that have damage the integrity of so many of our institution . put simply , those institution involve in cover - up , disingenuity , duplicity , deceit , manipulation , artifice , contrivance and silence , among other descriptor , have be find want , to say the least . Hillsborough , the Post Office , infect blood , Grenfell Tower , Windrush , Orgreave , the Manchester arena , and no doubt many other , have dishonour those institution but not necessarily , of course , all the many dedicated people who work in those institution . I be pleased that my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary have also give his commitment that the Bill will not be water down . I be pleased that minister have give a commitment to work with family to improve the Bill as it go through Parliament . the Bill be not an end in itself , per se . there will , of course , be the drafting of the code of practice for public official , which will need input from family to ensure that the provision of the Bill will be build upon . that have be refer to by the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) and the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . it be fair to say that after so many year of disappointment and disillusionment , campaigner have every right to be guard , cautious and possibly sceptical as the process run its course , but I know that many member in this House and the other House will examine the Bill closely with commitment and passion . I start by put on the record my thank to the campaigner , and I reaffirm that . I would like now to put my thank on the record to other campaigner , include lawyer , associate professional and so many other who have be there all the way . as a blue , I rarely , if ever — in fact , never — thank a red for anything . but as long as we keep it in this Chamber and it do not go public , I will make an exception or two . first , my red hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) have , along with another red , the Liverpool metro Mayor Steve Rotheram — I be get a bit anxious now — work to push this process along in partnership with the family , but I know the input and guidance from a blue , Manchester metro Mayor Andy Burnham , have be invaluable . dare I say it ? Liverpool 2 — Everton 1 , but it be still not full time . it go without say that my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) have be a long - stand advocate for this legislation . her contribution be witness to that tenacity , as her work have be over decade in this House on this matter . Liverpool FC ' s legendary manager Bill Shankly say , " for a player to be good enough to play for Liverpool , he must be prepare to run through a brick wall for I then come out fight on the other side . " the survivor and the family of the victim of those scandal I mention and other have face and break through so many brick wall and be here , remarkably , still play . I hope that their fight have now , at last , come towards an end . I hope that this legislation will be a live monument to all those who have lose life , livelihood , love one and freedom . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you to all the campaigner to whom we owe so much . that day in September 2012 remain vivid in my memory : the day the independent panel , chair by Bishop James Jones , finally confirm that public official have hide the truth about the Hillsborough disaster . it be a day the family have wait for so long for , a day they have work tirelessly to bring about . it be the first day that their persistence prevail , the first breakthrough in what would become a chain reaction that have lead we here today . during that time , I be a councillor in Liverpool . I remember knock on door that evening and be meet by absolute relief on people ' s face — the tide be start to turn . the family come that day to speak to the council . the emotion in that room be among the strong that I have ever experience . for the first time , the family feel that power could be hold to account and justice might one day be serve . however , to this day , no one have be hold accountable for the Hillsborough disaster . the 97 and their family be still live without the justice they deserve . yet the family remain selfless , motivate by the great good , work to protect other in the future — people unknown to they . their campaign have continue for three decade , but it must have feel like a lifetime . the truth have take so long to be uncover that key campaigner like Anne Williams , Phil Hammond , Rose Robinson and Barry Devonside be sadly no long here to see the legislation come before the House , but their fortitude and determination be nothing short of astounding . they have mine and the nation ' s utmost respect . to be wrongly and publicly shame , smear and blame for a tragedy of such scale be something that no one can imagine experience . then to face the institution of state in court , without the mean to navigate the law and our complex legal system professionally , be nothing short of devastating . the fact that public body that can effectively silence citizen , who must find million of pound to stand up against they , be simply unacceptable . to not only endure but passionately oppose lie , victim - blaming , delay and denial for year take unwavering strength . what the fan and their family endure be all too familiar to many other across this country . the Bill be not about only one place or one group of victim ; it be about how we can hold power to account . those who have suffer , both directly and indirectly , from the state - drive scandal that have be mention be familiar with the feeling of powerlessness , grief and justified anger . the infected blood scandal be just one example of unimaginable suffering — people endure not only physical harm but haunt social stigma and lasting damage . child as young as seven be tell that they would die . some lose multiple member of their family , only to be leave in social isolation . that be not to mention a serious lack of transparency and year of delay , and many victim die before justice or compensation even begin . Sir Brian Langstaff rightly call the delay for the blood scandal victim " an injustice all of its own . " no Government can be allow to act on serious state failure behind closed door , without a legal duty of candour . People who bravely seek justice must no long be ignore and push aside by successive government . it be admirable that those affect by the multiple tragedy since Hillsborough have continually come together to fight for prevail and lasting change . the Hillsborough Law now group be a formidable force . yet it should not be that way . People should not have to sacrifice their life to see change . successive government should not be push back and drag their foot at every turn . this Bill should have be introduce to the House far , far early than the 36th anniversary of Hillsborough . if it have be in place 36 year ago , all the pain , trauma , repeat legal proceeding and investigation would never have happen . I join the Hillsborough Law now campaign , Inquest , the Law Society and numerous other group that have express their relief about this law finally be put in place . although compensation for those scandal be crucial , victim and the british public want to see justice and change . that be why the Bill be a victory for sufferer of all the state - cause scandal in our recent history . it be owe to each and every one of they . although we must all ensure that the Bill retain its strength during its journey through Parliament , more can be do . we can push for strong whistleblowing protection , robust enforcement mechanism , non - means - test legal aid for survivor , and a Leveson 2 inquiry to hold the medium to account . the Bill will ensure that silence in the face of wrongdoing no long prevail . public organisation will no long be able to place reputation management above the truth . the Bill will be a legacy for the 97 who never come home , and their family , who will never walk alone . this have be a long time come . we finally have before we a Bill that be , in the eye of those who matter — some of whom be sit in the Gallery today — worthy of the name " Hillsborough law " . that be a huge achievement and , as other have say , it be the result of a lot of hard work and campaign by a lot of people . the fact that victim have have to fight so hard just to get to this point show exactly why the Bill be need . nobody should have to fight the state for truth and justice after the death of a love one — nobody . the way the Hillsborough family have fight for so long be inspirational , but the fact that they have have to do so be unacceptable . they should never have be put through it . I be just nine year old when Hillsborough happen . I vividly recall the news and image come through that day . I can remember see the tv report and the national newspaper in the day and week that follow . Most of all , I remember the shocking speed at which completely false allegation be invent and deliberately spread about the victim and the ordinary fan who try to help they . I remember the lie that be tell about innocent man , woman and child who simply go to watch a football game . those lie be tell , encourage and believe by people in position of power — include in this place — whose duty be suppose to be to protect ordinary people . those lie stick . they pile insult and further harm on top of unimaginable pain , grief and loss . it have take 36 year to get to this point — to have the Prime Minister introduce a Bill in this place , with a government so clearly commit to deliver this law and a worthy legacy for victim not just of Hillsborough but of other scandal such as Grenfell , the Manchester Arena attack , Orgreave , the infected blood scandal and so many other — it would take the rest of my available time to mention they . by do so , we pay tribute to the victim , survivor and family not just in word but in action , to well protect ordinary people now and in the future . I have meet and know family who be affect by Hillsborough , include the Aspinall family . Margaret Aspinall be in the Gallery today , and her daughter Kerry be a lifelong friend of my wife . I have see the impact that it have have on their family . they live and breathe it to this day . time and again , innocent ordinary people have be treat appallingly while at their most vulnerable . the state , which should be there to protect they and serve they , have too often deliberately get in their way , obstruct justice and protect itself instead of the victim . I have always say that I can not and will not support anything call a Hillsborough law if the Hillsborough family do not feel that it be worthy of that name , so I be delighted that they support the Bill before we . I be also pleased to hear that , so far , all the talk have be of strengthen the Bill , not water it down . however , the Bill be not perfect , and the Hillsborough Law now campaign group — many of whom be in the Gallery — have identify area in which we can improve and strengthen it . I have know one of that group ' s member , Debbie Caine , who be not here today , for many year . she have campaign tirelessly for year to get we to this point , and I thank she for everything that she have do . the campaign group want to ensure that the duty of candour apply consistently to all public authority , include the security and intelligence service . they ask for certainty about the commencement of the Bill , and insist — not unreasonably — that it should come into force upon Royal Assent , not at some unspecified later date . they ask for enhanced whistleblowing protection specific to disclosure make under the new duty of candour . they also have concern about the current wording on " harm " , which be limit to an identifiable victim . as we know from numerous shameful example , public deceit can cause institutional or systemic harm rather than individual injury , and we need clarity on that . I be sure that those and other issue will be the subject of some debate in Committee . I want to be clear that , from this moment , the process must result in a strong Bill , not a weak one . too many people have have to fight too hard for too long just to get to this point . we must see this through and get it right . this be no time to be timid . we be elect with a mandate to deliver this law and to do so properly . the victim of Hillsborough and too many other tragedy deserve nothing less . I echo many other member across the House in pay tribute to the Hillsborough family . I represent a constituency in Northern Ireland , but I have to confess that I be a red . we hear of their plight and take that plight on as our own . I can not see up to the Gallery , but I say to Margaret and everybody else up there : we be think of you and hold you in our heart today . this be your day . what you have manage to do have reverberate not just throughout Liverpool and the whole of the United Kingdom , but throughout the world . you have set the gold standard — a price that we should never have expect you to pay . to lose family member at any time be extremely traumatic , but to lose they in the way that you lose your loved one , and the subsequent cover - up — as other member have mention today , this be not simply about statutory organisation and their response ; it be also about the role of the press . last summer , whenever this Parliament sit for the first time , the Prime Minister say that this would be a Government of service , and I really do believe that this legislation be the good example of that so far . this Bill be all about service to people and service to community . when I enter Parliament last year , I find a kindre spirit in my friend , the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) . this subject be personal to I and my constituent , because many people in Lagan Valley and Northern Ireland be impact by the infected blood scandal ; some of those family be my constituent . this be about a pattern and , as other have reference — I will say it out loud for the avoidance of doubt — there be also a strong element of class within this . People do not understand . if you have be bring up and raise by the state , for want of a well word — reliant on it for financial and other support — if you be pregnant and someone tell you to take a pill because you have morning sickness , you take the pill and believe that you will be okay . and when people start to ask question , you don ' t ask why . so many woman across the UK take that pill : Thalidomide , Primodos , sodium valproate , aggression against woman as they be labour , the ockenden report — so many issue litter across our culture and our United Kingdom . and the pattern be always the same : transgression against people who sometimes do not even know how to raise the alarm . if you be to ask the person on the Clapham omnibus , " do you know what the Public Interest Disclosure Act be ? do you know how to utilise your right in regard to that piece of legislation ? " , they be go to look at you ; they be go to turn around and say , " I ' m not go to tout on the boss . " that be a cultural phenomenon , and it be one that persist because we have such inequality within this country — inequality in housing and in education . we can see a huge social gulf widen every day . why should we be surprised whenever people who be do wrong by the state feel that they have nowhere to turn ? they can not even see themselves that they have be do wrong . this matter transcend politic , and it have be hearten to hear that echo across the House today . this be not a matter of party politic ; this be about represent our constituent to the good of our ability . this legislation be so important because it represent the UK Government finally recognise that honesty and transparency be not optional virtue ; they be the foundation of justice . today in the Northern Ireland Assembly , my colleague have speak about one of the big health scandal of our time : the cervical smear scandal in the southern trust , which include part of my Lagan Valley constituency . some 17 , 000 woman have their smear test read incorrectly . two of they have already pass away : Erin Harbinson and Lynsey Courtney , both young mother . we be still wait for adequate response as to why that happen , and that be in just one part of the UK . there be another reason that this be legislation be so important and personal to I : the experience of my Lagan Valley constituent , the Conroy family . I be really grateful to my friend and member from Northern Ireland for mention the Chinook crash — the case of flight Zulu Delta 576 . twenty - nine people on board be kill and there be no survivor , but what happen afterwards should be consider , and be , a stain on the corporate body of the UK . it should not be materially relevant , but fact be that all those people on board give their life in service to protect people . and they be repay by the state deny justice and just say that the four special force pilot be wrong — that be it ; nothing to see . if be it not for the persistence of the family of Flight Lieutenants Rick Cook and Jonathan Tapper , the family would have walk away by today . it be not until over a year ago that a documentary air and some of the family find out that , actually , the finding relate to the Chinook crash be seal for 100 year . I understand that be because of information relate to the people on board the craft , but we can get round that with a public immunity certificate . the family deserve answer , and if this government be serious about this legislation , this should be the first test case . at present it be not obvious what public servant should do if relevant material can not be disclose because it be of an intelligence or security nature . do the hon . Lady think that strengthen the reach of the Intelligence and Security Committee might help to bring some oversight of the sort that her constituent , and mine , would expect ? absolutely — Order . I call Ian Byrne . this moment carry immense weight for I and for so many other here today — for all those who have lose love one , those who carry the scar , and those who survive but never recover from the trauma of be drag innocently into a state cover - up . this Bill be not just about legislation , although that be vital ; this Bill be about legacy . it be about truth , justice and accountability — three word that the establishment have resist at every turn , and three word that we have fight to place at the heart of the Bill . let I speak briefly about why I have fight so hard for those word . like so many , I be at Hillsborough in 1989 . like so many , I witness the cover - up unfold . ninety - seven innocent man , woman and child be unlawfully kill , and countless more life shatter , but the tragedy be only the beginning . the cover - up that follow be deliberate — a calculate attempt to rewrite history and shift the blame on to the victim . let we never forget what the chief constable of South Yorkshire police admit in 2012 , after the Hillsborough independent panel : " in the immediate aftermath senior officer seek to change the record of event . disgraceful lie be tell which blame the Liverpool fan for the disaster . statement be alter which seek to minimise police blame . " I see that with my own eye . I sit beside my dad , who be seriously injure at Hillsborough , in the Liverpool office of Elkan Abrahamson , who be here today — one of the architect of the Bill , along with Pete Weatherby — when he receive his revise statement . the anger , dismay , and betrayal that he feel read the lie write in his name be something that I will never ever forget , and it be why this mean so much to I . it take 23 year for South Yorkshire police to admit the scale of its cover - up , yet by 2020 — 31 year after Hillsborough — no public servant have be convict , and no police officer discipline . in fact , Norman Bettison , who be absolutely central to the cover - up , not only escape sanction but be reward with a knighthood for his effort — a title he disgracefully retain to this day . so yes , we get the truth , but justice ? no . that be why we be here today . this Bill must be worthy of the 97 who be unlawfully kill . it must be worthy of all who have suffer at the hand of a state that cover up its failure . I want to thank everyone who have help we reach this point . there be so many to name ; so many be sit here today , so many will be sit at home watch this on the tv , and some be no long with we . I pay tribute to the campaign group behind Hillsborough Law now : the Hillsborough family and survivor ; truth about Zane ; nuclear test veteran ; contaminate blood campaigner ; Post Office Horizon scandal victim ; Covid - 19 Bereaved Families for Justice ; Grenfell United ; the Fire Brigades Union ; the Manchester Arena family ; primodos campaigner ; and of course Inquest . all have face the same wall of silence , the same institutional defensiveness , the same decade - long fight for truth , and the pain that that bring . that be why the Bill must not be water down . it must include every strengthening measure promise by Ministers , include a duty of candour that apply to all inquiry include local one , and parity of funding must be enshrine as a clear principle within it . time and again , grieve family have face the full might of the state , arm only with determination , while public body deploy team of lawyer to protect reputation and shield those responsible . the imbalance be grotesque , and absolutely deliberate . let we be clear : the establishment will try to weaken the Bill . they will say it be too complex , too costly , too disruptive , but what they really mean be that it be too effective , because it threaten their impunity . the scale of state cover - up should shame this House , but over the year this place have play a key role in their creation and concealment . that can change today , with this Bill . as it pass through Parliament , I and other will examine it line by line to ensure that it remain fit to bear the name Hillsborough . while I thank the Government for get we here today , I must raise a few issue that need to be address in Committee and on Report . the Bill rightly create both corporate and individual duty , which be so fundamentally important when we look to avoid another Grenfell . clause 2 ( 5 ) require the person in charge of a public body to take " reasonable step " to ensure compliance , but it do not make the chief officer or executive liable . without that individual accountability , the deterrent power of command responsibility be lose and the culture of cover - up that we be try to end may continue . I urge hon . member to press the Government to strengthen that provision . I thank my hon . friend and pay tribute to he for all the work that he have do for year to help to get we to this point — it be incredible . I completely agree with he about the thing that need to be do to strengthen the Bill , but do he agree that this be the start of the process — just another step on the journey — and not the end by any mean ? my hon . friend make a fair point ; this be a great start but there be a long way to go yet , and we need to keep our foot to the pedal . the Government recognise the need for a statutory duty of candour to change the culture of cover - up . Candour be not incompatible with national security . the duty to tell the truth must apply to everyone , include intelligence agency . carve - out for individual officer undermine this Bill and , frankly , have no place in legislation about candour . accountability would improve the performance of our security service and surely enhance our safety , not lessen it . the Government have be offer a simple amendment to fix this issue in the Bill , and to ensure that accountability , by the lawyer connect to Hillsborough Law now . I urge hon . member and the Government to support it . colleague , we do not get here without a long , collective effort from so many , and we must continue that same collective effort to ensure that truth , justice and accountability be finally — finally — enshrine in law . the Bill must honour those already wrong by the state , those who fight for justice on their behalf and those who might come after we , but it must also mark the beginning of the end for the suffering of innocent working - class people drag into the vortex of a state cover - up . my message remain crystal clear : anything less than the Hillsborough law deliver in full would be a further betrayal of the 97 , and indeed unworthy of the name Hillsborough . all of we in this place , and those watch , will carry on , relentless , until we get that legacy . this Bill certainly be long overdue . I previously contribute to the excellent debate in Westminster Hall that be secure by the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , who have just make another fantastic contribution to the campaign . he have be a tireless campaigner for justice since the disaster in 1989 . the Scottish National party support the Bill and we will work with the UK Government to change the culture of secrecy and cover - up , which for far too long have characterise too much of our public life . Scotland and the rest of the UK be well serve by the exceptional dedication and commitment of our public official , who work every day to keep our community safe . however , it be right that we should be able to trust that those who serve in a public role fulfil very high standard of behaviour and conduct throughout their career . the sad reality be that when these failure be discover , far too often the wagon be circle , rather than good - faith effort be make to provide transparency and justice . so often in my own career in health and social care , I witness public body and senior executive respond to adverse event in defensive way , decline to offer apology to avoid financial cost and seek to hide the truth to protect career . but the buck stop in this place ultimately . to reiterate , the SNP Scottish Government be supportive of the aim of the Bill and have be engage closely with the UK Government on this legislation , include on how it may be extend to Scotland and which scottish legislation will require amendment . if so , a legislative consent motion will be present to the Scottish Parliament for debate . in the meantime , public servant be , of course , expect to continue to follow all exist code , and professional and legal obligation , until the Bill be fully implement . the SNP Scottish Government have already take legislative step to introduce a duty of candour in area of public life in Scotland , but this Bill must now be the catalyst to change organisational culture across these island for good . I fully agree with the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) that the Bill would benefit from the establishment of an office of the whistleblower . that have to be one of the outcome of the eventual passing of this legislation . we fully support the measure deal with enforcement and compliance , but the key question be : when will we see an end to cover - up , denial , obfuscation and defensiveness ? this law must extend not only to intelligence service , but their individual officer . it must make it clear that there be a single , clear point of accountability for chief executive of public body and other leader with command responsibility . some legal expert believe that the Bill ' s word on that may be weak , and there be a case for review and strengthen this part of the Bill . we welcome the propose code of ethical conduct , and the extension of the law to private body with public service health and safety responsibility . clause 5 allow for a prison sentence of up to two year for the offence of fail to comply with the duty of candour . that could be unduly lenient when one consider some of the more serious scandal . the inclusion of the concept of " victim harm " in clause 11 may not be as helpful as it sound , as it would potentially exclude those who , for example , simply falsify statistic , for whatever reason , and be not directly create any specific victim . that wording could be review . we welcome the commitment to equality of arm in court proceeding , and to ensure that victim and their family have full recourse to legal aid . in the past , the absence of public funding have too often be an insurmountable obstacle . on a further matter of detail , already mention by the hon . member for Chichester , the Bill make no reference to newspaper or other medium outlet , some of which be up to their neck in law breaking , as demonstrate by the Leveson inquiry . as hon . member will know , Leveson 2 be mean to investigate the relationship between the press and the police , but it be cancel by the Cameron Government . as a result , there be little or no accountability in this area . there be still deep hurt in Liverpool at the conduct of some editorial staff and journalist at the Sun newspaper all those year ago . there be other example of misconduct and even law breaking . will the Bill provide some solution relevant to the medium ? if not , how do the Government intend to address this issue ? I allude at the outset to devolve matter . there be a clear need to work proactively with devolved administration on legal provision that will require amendment . there have be so many example in recent time of an utter failure to consult , liaise or communicate with the devolved administration , but that can not happen in this instance . I hope that we will see maximum co - operation on these matter . my party and I stand ready to make a constructive contribution as this Bill pass on to its next stage . I rise to support the Bill . I start by thank the Prime Minister for deliver on our manifesto promise to bring the Hillsborough law before the House . as a Liverpool MP and someone who have family and friend at Hillsborough — they fortunately all come home — I would not have accept anything that be not accept by the family , and I know that my neighbouring colleague feel the same . I be grateful , as I know the family will be , to the Prime Minister for confirm that he will accept no watering down of the Bill during its parliamentary passage . I sincerely hope that those in the other place have hear that pledge loud and clear . I pay tribute to my constituent Mark Corrigan , who be in the Public Gallery , along with many family member of the 97 . Mark ' s brother Keith McGrath be one of the 97 who be unlawfully kill at Hillsborough . his parent , Mary and Joe Corrigan , fight all the way to the end for truth and justice , and demonstrate the strength , dignity and resilience of all the family . our city , on the bank of the Mersey , know about solidarity , love and empathy . we have one another ' s back , and we know all too well that an injustice to one be an injustice to all . I can say proudly that the bond that be forge in the fire of 15 April 1989 be as a strong today as ever . as I have say previously in this place , Scousers have long memory . we shall never forget . we will continue to mourn our lose love one , and we will always fight for truth and justice , oppose those who continue to spread the appalling lie about that fateful day with every fibre of our be . on that point , Margaret Aspinall , who lose her son James at Hillsborough , have say : " today Hillsborough Law be finally debate in Parliament . but justice win ' t be do until the S * n , too be make to answer for its abuse . the Prime Minister promise we that he would see this through . it be time for he to deliver the justice he promise , to build on today ' s vital achievement by make Leveson 2 a reality , and ensure the medium be hold to account for its role in state failure and cover - up . " appallingly , the Sun play a key role in the cover - up of the Hillsborough disaster by work with South Yorkshire police to spread lie about what happen and hide the truth . the Bill before we do not contain any reference to Leveson 2 or the role of the press and be exclusively focus on public official and authority . as welcome as that is , I would be grateful if the Prime Minister could update the House as soon as possible — I note that he be no long in his place . will he consider establish a public inquiry into the relationship between the police and the Sun ? will he keep his promise by meet with victim of press abuse and work with they to introduce further legislation to tackle press standard and corruption ? if any small flicker of light can come from the darkness of Hillsborough , it must be protection for succeed generation from the pain and anguish of the lie , the misinformation and the cover - up that we witness and suffer from for more than three decade . I welcome the fact that this law will ensure that family bereave by public disaster be treat far well and do not have to fight for decade , and I welcome the duty of candour , although I can hardly believe that we must legislate for people to tell the truth . the fact that it have take more than three decade to get to this point be a grotesque abdication of responsibility by those in this place to those whom we represent , those who do not pull the lever of power , and those with little resource other than their collective determined voice . when we say " never again " to Hillsborough , we be also say " never again " to Grenfell , the Manchester Arena attack , the Horizon scandal , nuclear test veteran , the infected blood scandal and so many more . if the law do not place itself on the side of ordinary , good and decent people , it will consign itself to be a hobby tool for the privileged and powerful in safeguard their own interest . we should never hear just the voice of those in this place ; we should listen to the people who do not walk these corridor of power . let we give power to they and amplify their voice . anything less be an injustice . we need to pass this Bill in full for the family , the victim , and the survivor . justice for the 97 ! may I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and particularly to my role as vice - chair of WhistleblowersUK , a not - for - profit organisation ? the Bill place new obligation of transparency and frankness on public authority and official , leave they nowhere to hide from public scrutiny of their action . I absolutely applaud those aim . we have be offer the opportunity to strengthen the Bill , and I have a contribution to make that stem from more than a decade of listen to whistleblower . the UK have no proper law on whistleblowe or for protect whistleblower . section 43b of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , which be introduce by the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 , give a measure of protection from detriment to worker and employee who make what be term " public interest disclosure " . however , that provision treat such detriment as essentially employment matter ; it do not once use the word " whistleblowe " or " whistleblower " and do not extend beyond worker and employee . it be highly technical , put all sort of barrier and difficulty in the way of worker and employee who make public interest disclosure , focus exclusively on the employment context , and rarely — if ever — lead to any wide investigation of the substantive matter about which the worker or employee make a disclosure . the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill miss an opportunity : it could and should have recognise the important role play by whistleblower in ensure accountability . the whistleblower be , or should be , the good friend of every chief executive officer , every board , and every Minister . whistleblower want to see an end to crime , corruption and cover - up ; they do not want to be fire for raise their concern . almost everyone will recognise the major scandal in which whistleblower have report what be happen again and again but have not be believe or , bad , have be invite or force to leave their role . the case against whistleblower be all about protection of reputation and the imbalance of power , and I recognise entirely what the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) say . explicit recognition be give to the role of whistleblower in the ten - minute rule Bill introduce by the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) on 9 July 2025 , with the support of the Hillsborough victim . clause 2 , 5 ( 1 ) and 9 in that Bill would have be of huge significance in advance the protection of whistleblower . for the first time in legislation , the Bill give explicit recognition to whistleblowe — a word which have hitherto not feature in the legislative lexicon . the ten - minute rule Bill seek to extend the concept of public interest disclosure beyond employment law ; it would have extend whistleblow protection to all who blow the whistle , many of whom will be outside the scope of employment law . if that Bill have proceed , whistleblowe as a legal concept would have break out of the confine of employment law . clause 9 of the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill require public authority to publish code of ethic . it would be easy for the Government to take into their Bill the provision from the early Bill require public authority code of ethic to recognise the need to protect whistleblower . it be deeply disappointing and unfortunate that it do not , and I ask the Minister to address that point and amend the Bill in her mission to strengthen it . if that be to happen , it would be a start , but further reform would still be need . first , the provision would apply only when the potential wrongdoer be a public authority within the scope of the Bill . secondly , such protection as would be give would arise only indirectly through the existence of a code of ethic . thirdly , the Bill would lack tooth to deal with breach of the code of ethic . fourthly , there would still be no mechanism for investigate and follow up the wrongdoing that a whistleblow might have uncover . there remain an urgent need to set up the office of the whistleblower , and to extend the Bill ' s scope to include contractor in the private sector — order . may I remind the hon . Lady of the scope of this Bill ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek to pick up on the Minister ' s and Prime Minister ' s intention of ensure that the Bill be as strong as it can be . the Bill should cover contractor in the private sector as well as the public sector , as be mention , if it be to have real tooth and ensure that wrongdoing be fully investigate and that wrongdoer be bring to account . will the Minister meet I and whistleblower to explore the scope of this Bill ? that day in April 1989 will never leave we . fan go to the match and never come home . they be not lose ; they be unlawfully kill . authority protect themselves ; decade of denial , distortion , and lie ; a press slander the dead and the grieving ; a cover - up and systematic failure of the state that cut deeply and last long than anyone could have imagine — and still not one successful prosecution . that be why we be here today . that be why the family and survivor continue to fight . we have all see their courage and determination , and I can not express what it mean to be in this place with so many member of the Hillsborough family with we in the Chamber today . one of they be Margaret Aspinall , from Huyton . she have ask I to say some word on her behalf . she have repeat many time to the Prime Minister and the Attorney General that the group want the Hillsborough law to be deliver in its entirety , with no change or water down . that will create a system that be so much fair for family who have lose a love one in a state - relate death . today , it be the perpetrator who get the help , while the victim get a massive cover - up . it must never again be a one - way system . deliver on that promise mean deliver the Hillsborough law in full . that mean impose duty on chief officer , rather than corporate body . this matter , because the duty should have be on the chief constable , Peter Wright , rather than on South Yorkshire police . require proof of harm make the " mislead the public " offence impractical and ineffective . deliver the Hillsborough law in full also mean bring forward an amendment to deal with combined and local authority inquiry . without such an amendment , the result could be the intelligence service fail to properly provide the full fact to inquiry . we must avoid what the King ' s Counsel to the family of those who tragically lose their life in the Manchester Arena attack call " institutional defensiveness " and a lack of candour from MI5 . as this Bill progress , the family and member of this House will continue to watch , in order to make sure that the Hillsborough law be exactly what this government deliver . Margaret ' s son , James Aspinall , die at Hillsborough aged just 18 . she be force to accept 1 , 200 quid , which be suppose to represent compensation for James ' s life — 1 , 200 quid for the life of her son . she be force to cash it against her will because she could not find the money to pay her share of the family ' legal cost . as she have say , " make a mother , like myself , accept a pittance to fight a cause . the guilt of this have live with I for year . " such practice have not stop ; since the Hillsborough verdict , other family have be make to beg for legal aid . Charlotte Hennessy be a constituent of my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Sir Mark Tami ) , who as a Government Whip do not have the opportunity to speak today and tell her story . Charlotte be just six when her dad , Jimmy Hennessy , go to the match and never come home . Jimmy be 29 . he be a plasterer , a man of moral , a mod — he look good — and a respected family man . for 23 year , Charlotte be tell that he die of traumatic asphyxiation . it be not until 2012 that she learn the truth . her dad be find alive on that pitch . a police officer testify that he feel life and give he cpr . Jimmy be carry to the gym , where he be suppose to receive medical support . he be declare dead , but he be not dead ; he be still alive when he be zip into a body bag , and he vomit inside it . the pathology report be false : Jimmy do not die in the crush , but from inhalation of his own gastric content . can you imagine die like that ? can you imagine know that your dad die like that ? Charlotte have tell I about the agony of live with an official lie , but she have fight to piece together her dad ' s truth . she tell I : " a Hillsborough Law , with a duty of candour , be imperative . it must stop corruption and prevent any other family from go through " the pain that her family go through . it be right that the Government have attempt to match the courage of the family and to be bold , but Hillsborough be not a one - off . again and again , the state fail those who need the most protection . there must be justice for the 97 , but also for every family who have face the same nightmare , or might face it one day . we can not let they down . this Bill must be deliver in full , with no watering down . I look forward to the Minister promise , as the Prime Minister have from the Dispatch Box today , that this Bill will be the Hillsborough law — that it will be strong enough to protect every victim of state failure and finally deliver justice for the 97 . in welcome this Bill , I be very mindful of the tenacity and courage of the campaigner who get we to this point , both outside and inside this House . they can take some comfort from this Bill today . I trust that it be a Bill that will live up to its promise . as I mention in my intervention on the Prime Minister , I trust that it will bring justice to the Chinook family , for example , who have be treat to serial cover - up in respect of that appalling incident . however , there be issue with the Bill that I want to probe . it declare in its very first clause that : " the purpose of this Act be to ensure that public authority and public official at all time perform their function … ( a ) with candour , transparency and frankness , and ( b ) in the public interest " . but will it be at all time ? we discover in the Bill that the only criminal sanction apply to those who do not show candour , transparency and frankness to a public inquiry or a public investigation . in many such case , there would already be the threat of perjury , so where be the commitment to ensure that there be candour at all time ? rise — if the Minister want to make an intervention , I be quite happy to take it . I welcome the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s comment , but the Bill literally say that there be a duty of candour " at all time " . it do , and then it go on to tell we in clause 1 ( 2 ) how it impose that duty . there be five way in which it do so . the first be by " impose a duty on public authority and public official to act with candour , transparency and frankness in their dealing with inquiry and investigation and impose criminal liability for breach of that duty " . that be the only criminal liability that would arise from a breach of the duty of candour . the second way be by impose an ethical code on public authority . no criminal offence be commit if someone breach that ethical code — none whatsoever . the third , fourth and fifth way , in paragraph ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) , be by " impose criminal liability on public authority and public official who mislead the public in way that be seriously improper " , by " impose criminal liability for seriously improper act by individual hold public office and for breach of duty to prevent death or serious injury " , and by " make provision about parity at inquiry " about legal aid . the Prime Minister tell we that the Bill would apply across the whole United Kingdom , but sadly it do not . clause 24 , the extent clause , make it plain that the last three paragraph of clause 1 , which I have just read out , do not apply to Northern Ireland or to Scotland . the Bill in its entirety apply only to England and Wales , mean that clause 11 , for example — which be an important clause , because it do create a criminal offence , that of mislead the public — do not apply anywhere other than in England and Wales . why should that be ? why be this Bill not draft in such a way that those clause apply to the whole United Kingdom , after which the Assemblies of Scotland and Northern Ireland can deploy the mechanism of legislative consent ? the hon . and learn Member may or may not be aware that in order for those section to apply across the UK , the Scottish Government would have to agree to a Sewel motion — a legislative consent motion — that would allow this place to legislate for Scotland . justice be devolve to the Scottish Parliament — it have be since the Act of Union and before . that be something that be value , so there would have to be that agreement . it be not something that can be lay at the foot of this Minister . that be exactly what I say . why do clause 11 not apply to the whole United Kingdom on the basis of a legislative consent motion ? such a motion could be seek from Stormont and from Edinburgh , and in that mean we could have uniformity across the United Kingdom . that be the mechanism for do it , but the starting point be to make the clause applicable across the United Kingdom , and then to have the legislative consent motion that would enable it to be enforce . that be how Parliament work with the devolved institution . [ interruption . ] member can shake their head as much as they like , but I be a Member of a devolve institution and know that that be how it work — that emphatically be how it work . the hon . and learn Member be a Member in Stormont . I be a Member of the Holyrood Parliament , where I be also the Minister for Parliamentary Business for three and a half year . it be my responsibility to take through legislation in that Parliament and to oversee the Sewel convention , and I can assure he that that be not how it happen . I disagree . many , many time in the Stormont Assembly , Bills that be pass through this House , which include measure such as new criminal offence , be subject to a legislative consent motion . that then give consent to proceed , and that mechanism could equally be use here . my question to the House be this : if this Bill be deliver the duty of candour by the five step set out in clause 1 ( 2 ) , how can it do that for the whole United Kingdom if three of those step do not apply throughout the United Kingdom ? this be not a debate about the constitution ; it be a debate about the duty of candour . I agree with the hon . and learn Member that the intention be for all nation in the United Kingdom to be bind by this legislation . however , he will be fully aware of the devolve competency for Scotland and Northern Ireland in this case . we be have positive engagement with both nation , and that be the intention of the Bill . I just remind he to perhaps bring the debate back to exactly what this Bill be about , with the family in the Gallery today . I therefore hope that the Minister , when she come to reply , will indicate that , subject to legislative consent , she will indeed make this Bill apply across the whole United Kingdom , because my constituent be as entitle as anyone else to the same duty of candour that arise elsewhere . the hon . and learn Member be make a powerful point . the Minister refer to devolve competence . do he agree that this Parliament be sovereign and have on many occasion intervene in law in Northern Ireland that be devolve ? it be therefore upon this Government to do the right thing and make all of this legislation applicable to Northern Ireland . I agree absolutely , and such intervention have happen many time . if we be serious about say there be a basis of equal citizenship across this United Kingdom , and that be what it be to belong to a United Kingdom , the duty of candour be give to England and Wales should equally be give to all of the United Kingdom . I welcome it for England and Wales , and I welcome it so far as it go in Northern Ireland , but it do not go far enough . I be disappoint by the Government ' s reticence to accept that this Bill , like any other , could be improve . a mighty step forward in improve it would be ensure that it provide that duty of candour across the United Kingdom . will the hon . and learn Member give way ? I would give way , if I have not run out of time . I say to the Government , yes , let we go forward with this Bill , but let we make it a well bill that give the same right across this United Kingdom . I rise in support of this Bill today as the MP for Liverpool Riverside , as a very proud Scouser and as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for miscarriage of justice . as we all know , Hillsborough stand as one of the great miscarriage of justice this country have ever see . this Bill be about a simple , powerful idea : truth and justice . those two word should underpin our system of power , but from Hillsborough to Orgreave , the Manchester Arena tragedy , the Shrewsbury 24 , Grenfell and Windrush , we know that too often that simply be not the case . for decade , working - class community and the family who have lose love one have have to fight tooth and nail against institution that be mean to protect they , only to find those same institution closing rank and themselves face delay , denial and deceit . this Bill , and the Hillsborough law it seek to deliver , be about end the cycle once and for all . let we be honest , though : that progress do not happen by chance . it be down to the tireless effort of family and campaigner who refuse to give up . I pay tribute to those family and campaigner who be in the Gallery , and to those who fight very hard , but be no long with we . they keep this issue alive when other try to move on and bury it . I also want to say thank and pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , Steve Rotheram and Andy Burnham for their work so far on bring this Bill forward . we know that this Bill , even with the good of intention , may face obstacle . we have already hear about the possibility of it be water down in the other place . we all know how thing work in Westminster , and while it be welcome that the Government have bring the Bill forward , we be also be warn that it might be water down , with its bite blunt and mean diluted . it be on this House and all of we here to ensure that we fight back against that . on that shocking day in 1989 , 97 innocent people be unlawfully kill , but we must recognise that the injustice do not end that day . the real scandal begin in the day , month and year that follow , when the machinery of the state turn on the victim and the family . police statement be alter . Blatant lie be print on the front page , particularly by " the Scum " newspaper . family be smear and force to relive the trauma for decade , just to prove what they already know : that their loved one be not to blame . that be why we need a Hillsborough law , with a statutory duty of candour on all public official so that truth be not optional and cover - up be impossible . if that duty have exist in 1989 , those family might not have have to wait 36 year for justice . if that duty have exist , perhaps we would not have see the same play use again at Grenfell , or Orgreave , or with the infected blood scandal , the Post Office , Windrush and so many more that we have hear about in the Chamber this afternoon . we owe it to those family and to every family who have suffer injustice at the hand of the state to make sure it never happen again . that be why I want to take this opportunity to recognise the Cammell Laird worker , who be unjustly imprison in 1984 for stand up for their right . their struggle remain a stain on our history , and they be yet to receive justice . my good friend the former Member for Birkenhead be a staunch leader in that campaign , and I thank he for his incredible work . their case , like Hillsborough , show exactly why accountability in public office matter . when the state close rank , ordinary people pay the price . this Bill must establish a legal duty of candour on public official — a duty to tell the truth , to co - operate fully with investigation and inquiry and to act in the public interest , not for self - interest . it must ensure parity of legal funding for bereaved family , because justice should never depend on someone ' s postcode or pay packet . the Bill must deliver real accountability with real consequence for those who lie , mislead or obstruct justice , because if we have learn anything from Hillsborough , it be that word without consequence be meaningless . I be forever honour to represent my home in this House . my city have live and breathe this fight for more than three decade . it know what institutional failure look like and what courage , solidarity and persistence can achieve in the face of that failure . for the people of Liverpool , the fight for justice have never be abstract ; it be deeply personal and bear out of tragedy , betrayal and an unbreakable demand for truth . we be a proud city — proud of our history , our culture and , above all , our sense of solidarity . the campaign for justice after Hillsborough help shape our modern identity , with a fierce refusal to be silence , a stubborn loyalty to the truth and an unshakeable belief in collective action . Liverpool have show this country what dignity look like in the pursuit of truth . now it be time for this country to show Liverpool that it have learn the lesson . I urge colleague from all part of the House to support this Bill with the strength and integrity that the people of Liverpool and people across the UK expect from we . we must fight for every detail until it be over the line and pass into legislation . let we make truth , justice and accountability not just pass word today , but enshrine in our Hillsborough law forever . it have be a massive privilege to have all the family appear with we today . without their presence , this law would not be be pass . let I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , and all the liverpudlian Members sit behind I who have work so hard over the year . the failure to hold public official accountable when they be at fault have be the foundation of innumerable scandal in our history . just a few of they be orgreave , Windrush , Grenfell , the nuclear test veteran , the infected blood victim and the post office worker . all those people have suffer at the hand of the state through no fault of their own , but , to our eternal shame , their suffering have be compound by indifference , inaction and , in some case , malice on the part of the very body that be mean to serve and protect they . the need for change be clear . it be vital that we have a Hillsborough law worthy of the name , and I be very pleased that the Bill will meet that standard : I be certain that my colleague on the Bill Committee and my colleague in the other place will ensure that that happen . the introduction of a Hillsborough law be one of the most important manifesto commitment for I , if not the most important , and I greatly appreciate the Government ' s affirmation that they will resist any attempt to water the Bill down . I believe that my colleague and friend will do the same , and , as the Member of Parliament for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough , I know that many of my constituent will strongly welcome that commitment . on 15 April 1989 , we be home to the country ' s big sporting disaster . at the time , I live just around the corner from the football ground , and I have never forget that day . I go out to buy a card for my good friend ' s birthday , and I be walk down my street just after it have happen , when people be leave the ground . at my local shop there be one telephone box , and there must have be 80 to 100 people queue up beside it , in complete silence . not a word be be speak . as I carry on towards home , it become apparent that the people walk around in our community be completely daze and traumatise by what they have see happen on that day . may I place on record my thank to the people of Sheffield ? on that day , they be magnificent in look after the Liverpool fan who , as my hon . friend have say , have no way to phone home . they show unbelievable human kindness to those fan . my neighbour and member of my community be open their door to people and give they cup of tea , because they be clearly in shock , and also let they use their telephone to tell their love one that they have survive . at that time , I be about nine and a half month pregnant . my daughter be bear on 1 May , and every year when that date come around I think of those who do not have a daughter at home , whereas I be lucky enough to have my baby . today be a very emotional day for Sheffield , or at least for I , as I remember how it be — as I remember that that happen in the city where I be bear and the city that I love . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby for remind I that the few little bit that we could do mean something to those people , and I will be ever proud of my constituent for what they do . the Bill be long overdue , and I apologise to the people sit in the Gallery for that , because we should have do well in the past . for a long time , public body have not consider themselves to be accountable , which be why the word " accountability " be in the Bill ' s title . I think we be now bring home to people out there — people who work in other area — the fact that they have always be accountable . we be just remind they , and ensure that there will be consequence for those who think that it do not apply to they , include prison sentence . that be only right . I feel today that we be put right the wrong that have be long with we in our society . I agree with those who have say , " this be have a go at the work class , because they do not know any well , they have no money , and they can not easily get hold of legal aid " — which , indeed , do not even exist now . I should like to think that today be a celebration of the people who have campaign tirelessly over the last 36 year , because without they , we would not be here . I say to they , " you guy be really tenacious as friend of the victim , and you have keep go and tell everyone what be wrong . " I absolutely concur with what member have say about the Sun . I would never buy a copy of that paper , and I never have after that day , because the part that it play in this tragedy should be subject to an open inquiry so that we can see who collaborate in ensure that it look as though people be drunk , people be out of their head on stuff and people have cause the tragedy , when they already know that it be their fault . let we never , ever see another such episode . I believe that the Bill be the way we will get through this , and that today will go down in history as the moment when the truth become know . I welcome the Bill , and thank the Government for introduce it . it be the result of year of committed campaigning lead by the family of the victim and the survivor of Hillsborough . many of the bad corporate miscarriage of justice , from infected blood to Grenfell , would have be expose year or even decade ago have it become law soon . the Bill require the state and its agent to tell the truth about their misconduct , and give right to the victim , not least the right of representation on fair and equal term in inquest and inquiry . let we therefore celebrate a landmark piece of legislation which , like the Human Rights Act and the Freedom of Information Act under the last Labour Government , give power to the citizen and make the state accountable ; but let we also look for way to improve it by strengthen what be in it and add what have be leave out . I welcome the duty of candour in clause 2 , which require public authority and official to act with " candour , transparency and frankness " . clause 4 extend the duty of candour to body or individual who be not public authority or official , but who have a " relevant public responsibility " . however , it require " a direct contractual relationship with the public authority " , which mean that subcontractor or subsidiary company would not be catch by the duty of candour , and I think that be wrong . clause 11 introduce a new offence of mislead the public . it be a strong test , but the Bill also contain exemption and caveat that may make it less comprehensive or effective . first , the " harm " test in the clause be unnecessary . the object of the clause be to prevent the public from be mislead . that may cause harm to an individual , but it should not be a requirement . prevent reliance on wrong information be an end in itself . secondly , the carve - out for the security service be too broad . schedule 1 not only exempt legitimate safeguard such as national security , but give a general exemption to intelligence officer at all level up to and include director . thirdly , clause 11 provide an exemption from the offence of mislead the public for act do " for the purpose of journalism . " however , the scope of this exemption be unclear . for example , do it extend to individual be interview as well as those conduct the interview , or to public official who also , for instance , publish news column or host news programme ? we know all too well from Hillsborough that the action of the medium can lead to injustice for victim . however , aside from that exemption , the role of the medium have be overlook by the Bill . South Yorkshire police defame the Hillsborough family and survivor , but they do not do so alone . their lie and smear be promote by several newspaper , most notably the Sun . it be the culture , and the connection between the newspaper and the police , that enable this to happen , and there be no evidence that that have change . just as South Yorkshire police be protect by the Sun after Hillsborough , the Metropolitan police be responsible for astonishing oversight in the investigation into phone hacking at News of the World . the culture of complicity be due to be investigate by part 2 of the Leveson inquiry . Margaret Aspinall , who be here today , be among those due to give evidence to Leveson . her son die at Hillsborough ; he be only 18 . Margaret have write powerfully in the Liverpool Echo today about the need for this Bill and for the press to be hold to account . I would like to voice my support for the expansion in legal aid for inquest that will be bring in by the Bill . the Bill provide that family will be eligible for non - means - test legal aid if a public authority be an interested person at the inquest . I would appreciate clarity from the Minister on how that expansion in legal aid will be fund . what be the estimate cost of provide representation at inquest and inquiry , and how will it be fund ? will it be , for example , from exist budget ? finally , I will mention a couple of provision that I think should be add to the Bill . there be no mention of the Independent Public Advocate . it would be good to hear from the Government on how they think that office — for which the Lord Chancellor have just make an excellent appointment in the person of Cindy Butts — can work to support victim through the Bill . there be also no national oversight mechanism provide for in the Bill , despite widespread support for one as a necessary guarantee of the successful implementation of public inquiry and prevention of future death report . a national oversight mechanism , which have be propose by the charity Inquest — which I know have be work closely with the Hillsborough family — would ensure that recommendation from inquest and inquiry be effectively publicise and that their implementation be monitor . too often , the recommendation of inquiry sit on shelf and be not implement , and no one go back to see that they be . a national oversight mechanism be a major omission from the Bill , and I hope the Minister will address that point when she wind up . I invite the Minister to respond to the point I have raise this evening . the Bill be an overdue , but no less welcome , piece of legislation that the whole House should wish to improve and enact . follow the next contribution , I will reduce the time limit to five minute — so , on a six - minute time limit , I call Abtisam Mohamed . as the Member for Sheffield Central , I approach this second Reading debate with pride that we have finally get here , but with the deep frustration and sadness at the time that that have take . many of my constituent , like those of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) , will be pleased that we be finally here , and I be sure that they will stand in complete solidarity with the family affect . for over three decade , our city be part of a tragedy that repeatedly scarred family and community who live far beyond South Yorkshire . not only be 97 life lose at Hillsborough ; those people be unlawfully kill — and instead of those life be honour and mourn , the family of the 97 have to swallow their grief and fight decade of institutional injustice , indifference and denial . the failure be not limit to what happen on that day in April 1989 . they continue for month , year and decade after : wave after wave of betrayal for family already live with the unimaginable pain of lose their love one ; wave after wave of betrayal by those in leadership position who just close rank ; wave after wave of betrayal by the medium , lead to cover - up , delay and dishonesty . with this Bill , we can say that this will never happen again — to anyone ; because , while the bereaved family have seek justice for their love one , the cover - up have continue . they include Grenfell , Horizon and the infected blood scandal , to name just a few . time and again , family have watch as the same playbook be use to smear working - class community and protect those at the very top . it be right that the Hillsborough family have push hard for non - means - test legal aid , because while those who cover up benefit from the public purse to fund their legal fee , family have to scrimp , save and borrow just to enter the legal system on the same footing . I be pleased that this Bill will ensure that there be change , and that that change will start now . fair access to justice mean that no victim will be leave to fight the state alone . with the duty of candour , public body must act truthfully , they must support investigation and they must behave in line with the nolan principle of integrity . now when thing go wrong — when tragedy strike — lesson must be learn , not bury . this be the Hillsborough law , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) for their tireless effort to ensure that those lesson be protect through the Bill . their legacy , and that of the bereaved family , be the one that will be remember . their tireless campaigning have result in change at the very top , and their relentless fight have force the Government and public institution to abandon a culture of cover - up . there must be accountability , and there must be no dilution . at the bottom and at the heart of this , there must always be justice for the 97 . on a five - minute time limit , I call Dame Nia Griffith . let I pay a huge tribute to all those who have fight so hard for this day : the Hillsborough family , who fight and fight and fight for 36 year . I pay particular tribute to Margaret Aspinall for her feisty and determined campaigning . it be hard to believe it have take this long ; in fact , it be scandalous . I also pay tribute to all those who fight against cover - up and lie to get to the truth : those hound and even criminalise by the Post Office Horizon scandal , and those infected and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . I wholeheartedly welcome this Bill , within just over a year of Labour take office . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be absolutely committed to see it on the statute book and will not allow it to be water down in any way . I remember finally get the Conservative Government ' s response to Bishop James Jones ' s report back in December 2023 — six year after its publication . I go to the briefing meeting , fully expect the then Justice Secretary to say that the Government would be introduce a Hillsborough law , but I be bitterly disappointed to find Conservative Ministers talk about a voluntary charter . but my disappointment be nothing compare with the grief , anguish , frustration , anger , disbelief and despair that the Hillsborough family have be leave feeling , time and again , at the cover - up , the obfuscation and the procrastination . in the case of the contaminated blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon scandal , the cover - up and the failure to listen to those experience the issue mean that there be new victim . in the Post Office Horizon scandal , people who need never have become victim — hard - work postmaster and postmistress — be subject to the appalling mental anguish of feeling that their beloved community , and indeed member of their own family , do not believe they . we know how tragically that end for some . with the infected blood scandal , there be people who need never , ever have be infect . in brief , tragedy happen and mistake be make , but a different culture , with a willingness to admit mistake — a workplace environment that treat whistleblower and those who speak up as constructive , critical friend , not troublemaker — and drive by an expectation of a duty of candour , could so often prevent further victim and suffering . today we be finally welcome a Bill that introduce a new duty of candour — a full Hillsborough law to force those in public office to co - operate fully with investigation , with tough penalty , include prison , for those who fail — and guarantee legal aid funding to enable those affect to challenge public institution . I be pleased that back in July , in keep with another of our manifesto promise , the then Home Secretary announce the Orgreave inquiry . can the Minister advise we whether this Hillsborough Bill will become law in time to be applicable to that inquiry ? far to that , amidst rumour of box of relevant police paper be destroy , be there anything that she or her Cabinet colleague can do , even before the Bill become law , to prevent potential evidence from be destroy ? colleague have reference that appalling front page of the Sun , headline " the Truth " , which allege that fan have steal from the deceased and abuse police officer , and put the blame for the disaster on the fan . the Sun know perfectly well that what it say be anything but the truth ; it be an outrageous attack on Liverpool fan and nothing short of a cover - up for the police . although this Bill will introduce a duty of candour for our public sector worker — and I do not want to do anything to delay or confuse that in any way — we should nevertheless , soon rather than later , address the fact that there be no duty of candour for the medium . for 36 year , the Sun have escape all accountability for its contribution to the cover - up . even today , there be no independently enforce standard for the press that would end the ability of part of the medium to conspire with the authority to mislead the public . the fact be that the Independent Press Standards Organisation fall well short of Leveson part 1 ' s requirement for independent and robust press regulation . as a result , there be nothing to prevent a cover - up perpetrate by the press from happen again . I congratulate the Prime Minister and my colleague in Government on the Bill , but I urge they to heed the call make by Margaret Aspinall today : introduce further legislation to make good on Leveson 2 , bring in tough regulation of the press and stop certain element of the press destroy innocent people ' s life . as we say in Welsh , " Nid da lle gellir gwell " : don ' t be satisfied with the good if we can do well . this legislation be long overdue . look back at the scandal where the state have deceive the people , some of which go back to the aftermath of the second world war , we see a long list of how the great british state have let down the people it be there to serve . in all these scandal involve the state versus the people , it be ordinary people who have to fight long and hard to get justice . in the contaminated blood scandal , it have take over 50 year . for nuclear test veteran , it go back to the 1950 . in the case of Hillsborough , it take 36 year . the list go on . all these scandal demonstrate that there be something wrong at the heart of our state — that the state place itself above the people , will not allow itself to be see to be wrong and , bad , refuse to offer redress for its wrongdoing . I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood — address one of the bad example the state deceive people over many decade . at the start of his May 2024 report , Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood inquiry , set out the depth of the state ' s deception — how the state know as early as the mid - 1940s the danger pose by transfusion of plasma , and the consequence . the risk of spread infection through transfusion be know in the early day of the NHS , yet this do not result in research or any attempt to ensure that blood be be source from safe provider . the state double down on its denial while continue to use product that put people at great risk . Sir Brian go on to accuse the state of a catalogue of failing , deliberate lie and obfuscation . he expose the scale of the deception and how the state fail to carry out research to make product safe , which could have save life and reduce infection . this in turn lead to product not be HIV - free . at Treloar ' s school , pupil with haemophilia be give contaminate blood product as part of an experiment . that be probably the most chilling part of the whole scandal . the former pupil of Treloar ' s have call themselves " human guinea pig " ; those be their own word . what be bad be that the pupil be tell that they have glandular fever . their family be tell not to tell anyone that it be HIV . the lack of a duty to tell the truth allow the state to ignore the need of the victim and their family . they be offer no help , support or counselling . the silence allow the state to avoid be hold to account — something that we have see again and again in the Hillsborough story , the Post Office Horizon story and all the rest . this have to stop , and the Bill will at last give a voice to victim . although candour in public official be welcome , the Bill fail to impose a similar duty on our medium . time and again , we have see a significant section of our national medium collaborate with official , which have obstruct justice , mislead the public and lead to harassment of survivor and their family . perhaps the most devastating example be the role of the Sun in respect of the Hillsborough tragedy ; the paper directly conspire with South Yorkshire police to accuse fan of cause the disaster . I hope that as the Bill pass through all its stage , we can address this omission . I welcome the Bill . we mps come here to speak truth to power on behalf of our constituent . now our constituent will have the right to force power to speak truth to they . I pay tribute to all the campaigner , but I want to pay special tribute to the Scouse MPs , who in the last few month put their foot down and say that they be have nothing but the Hillsborough Bill . I thank they on all our behalf . I want to raise a point about the duty of candour , transparency and frankness , and the duty to operate in the public interest . I would like someone to make it clear from the Dispatch Box that there be a duty to co - operate with the complainant or the victim in the pursuit of truth . I say that not about a historical event , but about an event that be happen today : the mitte inquiry into the undercover operation carry out on a number of our campaign . in that inquiry , the authority , the police and the intelligence service be belligerently fight not to tell the truth . I will explain briefly . twenty - eight year ago almost to the day , my constituent , a young asian lad name Ricky Reel , go on a night out with his mate in Kingston upon Thames . he go missing and never come home . we now know that he be racially abuse . a week later , we find his body in the river . the police inquiry be appal , and we beg for police resource to be apply . they be apply , but we discover later that they be apply to surveil our campaign . we have undercover police officer surveille our campaign , not investigate the case . we be tell , " Don ' t worry , we weren ' t really surveille you . you be collateral damage . " it be a collateral invasion of privacy , we be tell . then we meet worker who be be blacklist , so we set up the Blacklist Support Group . we discover that the police and the intelligence service be surveille those worker and provide information to employer . some of those worker never work again in their life . then , of course , we work with the Stephen Lawrence inquiry . we discover a hero : a police officer call Peter Francis , who be part of the unit that undertake the surveillance . he say what actually go on , and he blow the whistle . he be now give evidence to the mitte inquiry . my constituent Mrs Reel be also give evidence , as be the Lawrences and other campaigner , but the police be refuse to attend . they claim to be suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . they claim that they be so unwell that they can not provide the evidence . as a result , we will not get to the truth unless there be an overpowering duty in this legislation that force they to co - operate . People have say that this be about class , but it be also about race . the Lawrence family be surveille . why ? so that information could be provide to the medium to discredit they . in the Ricky Reel campaign , it become farcical . we go to visit the Metropolitan police and say , " you ' ve now admit that you be surveille we . we would like to see the document about that surveillance . " we be each give our own copy , but it be redact to such an extent that there be maybe only a sentence or a word visible . to be frank , we fall about laugh . we get up to take the copy out , but we be tell that we could not , and the reason why be that we might have put they all together and make sentence . that be how bad the situation be . we have still not get to the truth — to the full file — and we be still call for another investigation , so this Bill be highly relevant . we want a duty that be not just about tell the truth , but about co - operate with those who be complain and the victim . until we get that spirit of co - operation , I do not think that we will ever get to the point at which we can hold official and other to account . I be worried about the different way that the intelligence service will be treat . surveille the blacklist worker involve a rare mixture of police , special branch and other . I would like to see the intelligence service hold to account under this legislation . it almost give they a private guarantee that even whistleblower will never be hear in public in a way that allow we to expose what go on . there will be a lot more to say about this legislation , and we will need to amend it . my final point have already be make by my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) . I remain angry about the Sun . I remain bitterly angry about its role and what it do . we be promise Leveson part 2 , but we have drop it , and I do not think there be any justification for that . if anything good come out of today ' s debate , maybe it will be the Government reconsider introduce Leveson part 2 and legislation that prevent newspaper act as the Sun do . I have to say , if social medium have exist back then , can you imagine how horrendous it would have be ? rise — order . with an immediate four - minute time limit , I call Gordon McKee . on a sunny spring afternoon , Linda Howard watch her husband and son walk down the path from her house . even now , decade later , she can recall the detail of that morning with perfect clarity . Young Tommy pester his dad to let he join he at the football match . his mum do not want he to make the trip to Sheffield , but she see the anticipation in his eye , and be unable to say no and break his heart . as she say goodbye and watch they walk down the path , Tommy turn to wave one more time . she do not know it in that moment , but it would be for the last time , because her husband and son be head to a disaster . their life would be cruelly take in a tragedy cause by a failure of care , control and courage , and an instinct not to act , but to look away , as the crisis deepen . ninety - seven people lose their life in the Hillsborough disaster , and thousand more lost trust because of the event that happen afterwards . the same instinct that lead to inaction on that day lead to deceit in the day that follow . the fan of Liverpool football club be smear as a gang of drunk . the grotesque implication be that the dead be somehow responsible for their own demise , and grieve mother , brother , father and sister be treat by the police not as bereaved family , but as accomplice to some indescribable crime . they be take to a gym hall and force to look through photograph of the dead to find out the fate of their family . Hillsborough be not just a collapse of a crush barrier ; it be the collapse of trust . it be a moment when public official see their fellow citizen not as people to be protect , but as problem to be manage . I be ashamed to say that this be not unique in our history . just ask the grandmother who come to this country on a boat , and contribute for decade , only for the state to turn around and tell she she be no long welcome in her own country ; or the tenant who warn that their building be unsafe , but find their home engulf in flame before anyone would listen ; or the local businessman who hold together a community , but who find that the output of a faulty computer system be treat with more deference by the authority than his own word and honest reputation . these be not isolate story ; they be the same story . this be describe by the Right Rev . James Jones in his report as the " patronising disposition of unaccountable power " . that posture have no place in a just Britain , because power without accountability be not strength , but corruption . in a true democracy , the state exist to serve the working - class widow on the Wirral just as much as the chief constable of a police force . the bind promise of justice in a democracy be that , together , we belong to a country to which we each contribute , and by which we be treat equally . it be the promise also of the movement to which I belong , which 100 year ago say that work man and woman no long require a patronising disposition ; instead , they require representative of themselves to bestow power on the powerless , and to impose on all of those who hold state authority a duty of candour . that be what the Bill do . it instil in the public contract an immovable commitment that the truth shall sit above all else , regardless of consequence . the people of this country do not demand perfection . they understand the inevitability of mistake , but what they can not accept be a state that obscure the truth from its own people . we can not bring back the victim of Hillsborough , and we can not erase the year of pain or decade of denial , but we can make sure that no grieve family ever again have to fight their own Government for the truth , so that when the next mother watch her son walk down the path , she know that if tragedy do rear its ugly head , her country will stand with she , not against she , in the fight for justice . it be an honour to speak in support of the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill , which so many of we know as the Hillsborough law . this Bill be bear out of a state - sponsor injustice against working - class people . it be forge from the courage and persistence of those family — ordinary working - class people — who refuse to be break by the weight of injustice . they do not have privilege or power on their side . what they have be solidarity and an unshakeable belief that the truth matter . for too long , people in this country have feel that , when the system fail they and when those in power get thing wrong , sometimes with devastating consequence , no one be ever truly hold to account , and family be leave to fight for decade just to be hear . this Bill begin to change that . the new duty of candour say to every public official , " you work for the people of this country , and when something go wrong , you tell they the truth — no more cover - up , and no more protect institution over people ' s life . " it will make honesty a legal duty and create criminal offence for those who mislead the public or obstruct investigation . that matter , because we have all see the cost of denial — from Hillsborough to Grenfell , from the Post Office scandal to infected blood — and this Bill will help to end that culture once and for all . the extension of legal aid at inquest and inquiry finally level the play field , with no more family have to crowdfund or face state - fund lawyer alone in the fight of their life . that give ordinary people a fair chance , a voice and the power to hold the state to account . this be real accountability . this be democracy in action . however , if we truly want a culture of honesty , we must protect those inside the system who dare to speak up when something be wrong . whistleblower be often the first to see the crack , and too many have pay for their integrity with their career . Honesty should never cost someone their job , their home or their peace of mind . if we want this law to work , we must make sure that whistleblower be protect , their concern be investigate and their courage be value . when I think about what this Bill mean , I of course think about the Hillsborough family stand year after year inside and outside Anfield , say simply , " justice for the 97 " . this Bill honour their fight . it say that never again will ordinary people be treat as a problem when all they do be tell the truth . for working - class family across Britain , this Bill be a promise that truth will no long depend on wealth , that justice will no long depend on power , and that the voice of ordinary working - class people will never again be drown out by the machinery of the state . this be a Bill that finally say : no more cover - up , no more lie , no more hiding — just truth , fairness and accountability . that be what the Hillsborough family fight for and it be what the victim of so many injustice have fight for . on behalf of those family , on behalf of every whistleblower who have speak up , and on behalf of every work - class person everywhere who just want a fair hearing and an honest government , let I say that I be so very proud to support this Bill . I thank the government so much for bring this much - need , vital Bill to the House . it show what a Labour Government can actually do , and how a Labour Government can effect change . it be really positive to hear the Prime Minister say this afternoon that there would be an absolute guarantee that the Bill would not in any way , shape or form be dilute . that be really important to everybody . it be not a day for celebration ; it be a day far too long in come . it be not just about history ; it be about justice , it be about class , it be about the truth . the tragedy we have all live through — the Hillsborough disaster , orgreave , Windrush , Grenfell , the Post Office Horizon scandal , the contaminate blood scandal , plus many , many more — be not isolate event . they be symptom of a deep sickness : a system that protect power over people , reputation over responsibility , and privilege over truth . in each case , working - class life be treat as expendable . innocent people be pit against institution that close rank , deny wrongdoing and delay justice , sometimes for decade . at Hillsborough , 97 Liverpool fan lose their life , not by accident but because of institutional indifference . they be brand hooligan , not victim , by officer who hold deep - seat prejudice against work class community . it be about legacy , truth and accountability . it be not just about the Bill today . it have be say today in this Chamber that this be like people turn a blind eye to what happen . it be not turn a blind eye , for heaven ' s sake ! it be about huge , detailed , organise and orchestrate deliberate cover - up use billion of taxpayer pound against ordinary work people . it have be mention today that the chief constable get a knighthood . he have not receive any form of discipline whatever . ninety - seven people kill and not one person have be take through the court and prosecute , but he be give a knighthood . what an absolute disgrace . it show a huge disregard and indifference to work people . they be allow to trample on the grave of the victim in the belief that they could do whatever they want , because they be the one with the power and the influence . that can not be allow to continue . we have to remember that justice mean justice . who indeed make these decision ? what police officer shut the blind , put the coffee on the table and say , " right , look , we ' ve have 97 people sadly pass on , but we ' re go to make out like it really wasn ' t our fault " ? who then sign it off , because , by the way , I think every one of these injustice gan a lot far than just police officer and people in the public sector at the very top ? it have get to have have ministerial sign - off , I be afraid , because it would not have happen . I support the Bill in its entirety . no more delay . justice for all . this be a long overdue Bill , which I fully support . I be proud to support this important Bill and to pay tribute to the Hillsborough family , whose courage and determination have bring we to this moment . their decade of struggle have change our country and create a chance to ensure that no family ever again have to fight for truth alone . the Bill be about truth , fairness and accountability . it be about end the culture of cover - up that have mark too many national scandal , from Hillsborough to contaminated blood , and from Post Office Horizon to Primodos , whose family I have be honour to represent and campaign for in this House for the past 13 year . I have stand here many time to raise that issue and to lead debate , because it be not a new story . the Primodos scandal have be know about for decade . what have be miss be not information , but honesty . primodo be a hormone pregnancy test give to 1 . 5 million woman in Britain until the late 1970 . it be link to miscarriage , stillbirth and baby bear with life - change disability , yet the family be meet not with transparency , but with denial . in 1967 , Dr Isabel Gal publish research in Nature show a possible link between hormone pregnancy test and birth defect . rather than be support , she be dismiss and discredit . both the manufacturer , Schering , and the Committee on Safety of Medicines know of the risk . the committee issue a notice in 1975 warning of a possible link , and another in 1977 confirm that the link have be establish , yet primodo be not withdraw until 1978 and the woman who have already take it be never tell the truth . that be not candour . it be concealment . decade later , the pattern repeat . in 2017 the Government ' s own Commission on Human Medicines establish an expert working group , which conclude that there be " no causal association " between primodo and harm — wording that be add later after pressure from senior official . family be shut out , evidence be exclude and regulator defend themselves instead of admit failure . then , in 2023 , the same family be force into court against Bayer and the Government . despite the independent Cumberlege review , which occur after the 2017 expert working group , confirm that avoidable harm have occur , their case still collapse before trial when the family be threaten with £ 11 million in legal cost if they refuse to withdraw . it be a David versus Goliath battle , with ordinary family face the full legal force of the state and a global corporation . this Bill could hope to change that . it establish a duty of candour , a duty to assist investigation and the principle of parity of arm , which seek to ensure that family be not deny justice because they lack resource . however , the duty of candour must apply fully to all investigation , include independent panel , and not just statutory inquiry . command responsibility must rest personally with those in charge and not with the institution . the offence of mislead the public must not be weaken by the need to prove individual harm . the Bill be really important . I hope it be not dilute . I hope that people like those who suffer because of Primodos will get due justice . I start by say that it be fantastic to have Hillsborough law campaigner in the Gallery today . I work for they for several year before I be elect to this place on behalf of victim of the Ballymurphy massacre — one of the bad atrocity of the trouble . I be a relative of one of the victim of that massacre , Father Hugh Mullan , a catholic priest who be unlawfully kill by member of the Parachute Regiment . it take my dad ' s family 50 year to have the word " entirely innocent " put on the public record ; in the intervene year , people try to smear Hugh as a gunrunner , obfuscate justice . it be a pattern that we see repeat across so many of the story we have hear today . we should not forget why this legislation matter . all the campaigner and campaign support the Hillsborough law be distinct : victim of Hillsborough , the infected blood scandal , Grenfell and Horizon , the covid - 19 bereaved family , victim of the Windrush scandal , the trouble and many more . these be event that span decade and involve different arm of the state in different part of the UK ; the circumstance and consequence of each differ greatly . however , after each event , when family begin to seek justice , they often face similar challenge and circumstance : first , the smearing of innocent victim as guilty ; secondly , the closing of rank among authority , shut off route to justice ; and thirdly , a legal system where the scale of justice be stack in favour of the state . the human consequence be severe . Mr Kalia , a victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal from Bromley , which I represent , find his own child mistrust he after he be unable to clear his name . his marriage almost break down and he contemplate suicide . this Government have the potential to put an end to these obstacle and create a turning point in transparency , accountability and justice in public life to ensure that Mr Kalia ' s experience , and those of so many other , be never repeat again . that mean full parity of arm at inquest , put an end to David versus Goliath battle in court , where the state , flank by an army of lawyer , take on family who have scrape together for a single barrister . it mean a full duty of candour , with proper consequence for those who fall foul of it . it mean create an obligation for full disclosure , ensure that public body be wire to help family to achieve justice , not to close rank and protect their own . I thank the Prime Minister today for his reassurance that this Bill will not be water down and for his work and that of the Justice Secretary and the Attorney General in the other place in drive the Bill forward . I be also grateful for the work of my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) in tirelessly campaign on this issue . pass this Bill will lead to a rebalancing in the relationship between state and citizen . we will also have fulfil the purpose of power — to give it away — and will have empower family to pursue the settlement that they want . I again thank every campaigner and every family for their work on this Bill . I will finish with an irish proverb : " Ar sc á th a ch é ile a mhaireann na daoine " — it be in the shelter of each other that the people live . I know that what the Hillsborough family and many other family have do today be to provide shelter for other for many year to come . the Bill before we stand as a testament to the decade of campaigning by the Hillsborough family . I want to pay special tribute to they and to other family I have be humble to work with , include Grenfell family and the family of Zane Gbangbola , who be still fight for justice . they have back this Bill because they do not want to see other endure what they have to . I want to commend the tireless work of Greater Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham , who as Member of Parliament for Leigh help drive a Hillsborough law from inside this House . I also commend my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) — my close friend — for all he have do over the year , before become an MP and now , to fight to get we to where we be today . thank be also due to my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) and Steve Rotheram , Liverpool metro mayor . as shadow Justice Secretary in 2017 , I be proud to commit that a future Labour Government would deliver a Hillsborough law . in fact , it be almost eight year ago to the day since around 90 Labour mp sign a letter co - ordinated by myself and the then shadow Home Secretary , Diane Abbott — Order . the hon . Member mean to say the then shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Hackney somewhere or other — apology for not know . she have be forget too many time in this place , but I will put that to one side . the letter from the then shadow Home Secretary and I call on Theresa May to introduce a Hillsborough law in the aftermath of Grenfell . I commend this Labour Government for bring forward this legislation . a duty of candour , new criminal offence for fail to uphold that duty , expand legal aid and a parity of representation to end the David versus Goliath nature of inquiry — these be all big step forward . there will be area where the Bill can be strengthen , and I hope to play my part in ensure that it be improve as it go through this House , but fundamentally it be a good Bill and must remain so as it pass through the House . on that point , I want to send a very clear message today to anyone hope to water the Bill down as it pass through Parliament : do not try it . far too often in this country politic have act as a dam , hold justice back rather than help it to flow . class and power imbalance and , yes , racism have repeatedly deny people justice in the face of state abuse . we have see the truth sacrifice to protect the powerful . hillsborough , Stephen Lawrence , Grenfell , the Post Office scandal , Bloody Sunday , Orgreave — these be all example of time when the state use its immense power not to deliver truth and justice but to block it year after year . in all those case , the state be accuse of a cover - up by those affect . distrust be sow , and justice delay and deny . we know that there be force who do not want this Bill to get this far and who do not want it to go forward in this form — force who do not want the scale of justice tilt in favour of working - class people . I welcome the Prime Minister say that there will be no watering - down of this Bill , but if any civil servant , member of this House , those in opposition and in the House of Lords , those in the medium or other within the machinery of the state attempt to dilute or derail this Bill , they will have the fight of their life on their hand . we will use every power at our disposal , include name and shame under parliamentary privilege , if we hear of any attempt to water down this fundamentally important Bill . let this be a rare moment when the House deliver legislation that we can all be proud of . Martin Luther King once speak of how " the arc of the moral universe be long , but it bend towards justice " . it have not feel like that for so many family . let we make sure it do by support this Bill and make it law . it have be too long , and today be an important day . the Hillsborough law we debate today be not an historical problem ; it be something that my constituent need right now . I have already speak in this place about baby Ida Lock , who die after failing in her care , and the incompetent investigation and lack of transparency that follow . today I want to talk about another constituent of mine . Vicki have autoimmune disease , and she have regular treatment for they , often need steroid . in 2021 , Vicki fall pregnant and have a flare - up , which be treat with steroid . not long after she tragically suffer a miscarriage . day later she be admit to hospital with severe abdominal pain and an increase heart rate , and she begin to deteriorate . the differential diagnosis be either an infection or a flare - up of her autoimmune disease . Vicki keep get more poorly . she be treat with antibiotic but not give any steroid . her care be fraught with error : her lipid be score incorrectly ; the right test be eventually request but not carry out in a timely way ; and a pharmacist spot that she have miss crucial medication , but nothing be do . accord to her family , the doctor get catch in a loop of circular thinking — they focus on sepsis and covid — even when there be another possibility , particularly with her history of autoimmune problem . there be a rare but know complication of autoimmune disease call hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis , which be a massive overreaction of the immune system that cause hyperinflammation , damage vital organ . if the hospital have listen to Vicki and do a bone marrow test early , that HLH could have be identify , and it be possible that it could have be treat successfully . but once the decision to do the test — it give result in only 10 minute — be finally make , it take 18 hour for it to be do . the bone marrow test confirm that Vicki have HLH . twenty - four hour later , she die . Vicki know that she be have a flare - up , and she say so , but she be not listen to . from her hospital bed , she have write a letter of complaint to the patient advice and liaison service ; then , just a week later , she be dead . her family just want the truth to be recognise , because , in their experience , it have not be . their experience echo that of Ida ' s parent . the pain be compound because the family have feel that she be in the right place to be care for . they trust the hospital to get it right . we know that no one go to work in healthcare to do harm , but doctor and nurse be human ; they will make mistake , and it be difficult for they to admit that they have harm someone , so we need to create institutional culture in which people feel able to speak up and raise concern . mistake be often one - off , but what be not be the institutional response to these tragedy . the institutional response of cover - up be part of a wide , long - stand pattern of poor culture and weak accountability . what harm family tell I in the wake of these tragedy be that it be not necessarily the mistake itself that cause so much harm to they but the cover - up and the denial . family , instead of grieve their loss , be force to fight for the truth . my hope be that the Bill will protect victim and their family — like Vicki ' s , like Ryan and Sarah Lock and those who lose love one at Hillsborough — from this prolonged trauma . they deserve honesty , accountability and humanity from the very start , because that be how we rebuild trust . I will focus on chapter 2 of part 2 of the Bill , which provide that public body must operate in accordance with the high ethical conduct . that be very important to my constituent in Glasgow . shortly after I be elect , I meet a mum and dad at one of my surgery . they want to know how their beloved child die while be treat as an in - patient in NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde . they know that they can not get their beloved child back ; they just want to know that lesson have be learn so that other family do not suffer the same anguish every day . this family write to NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde two month after the death of their child ; the first response be less than candid . they ask for proper investigation ; one partial report be issue 10 month after their child ' s death . the second report be complete over two year after their child ' s death , and that report itself be concern as the NHS could not identify one of the doctor involve in the child ' s treatment and could not source two nurse involve , so they be not interview . how can it be that the NHS can not identify three people who work in a hospital on the day in question ? the family do not have answer even now , two and a half year after the death of their beloved child . I have try my good to help they , and I have press the NHS to complete the long - delay report and meet they . despite that , I be afraid that this grieve family have be treat appallingly . I therefore welcome the provision of chapter 2 . they be seriously need . I be not the first to raise concern about the transparency and openness of NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde : my friend Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie have repeatedly raise serious concern about institutional cover - up . I agree with they , and join they in their call for a radical change of culture and their support for Milly ' s law , with a public advocate system . I would like to ask a couple of question about the Bill ' s application in Scotland . it contain three criminal offence that be not replicate in Scotland . that be quite proper because , as we hear early , criminal law be a matter for the Scottish Parliament , not this place , but it would be interesting to know what the Scottish Government ' s position be on this . clause 18 and schedule 6 concern public inquiry , and the provision be design to ensure that the conduct of public authority and their legal team be fair and reasonable , in particular to ensure the equality of arm that we have hear describe so eloquently today . the law relate to public inquiry in Scotland and England be broadly the same , so I would be grateful if the Minister could explain why the schedule 6 provision do not extend to Scotland . schedule 6 also make provision for the expansion of legal aid and again , quite properly , this do not apply to Scotland , but I would be grateful if the Minister could explain the Scottish Government ' s position on this . my concern be simple : a family in Glasgow should have the same broad right as a family in Newcastle upon Tyne when try to get the truth from public authority . I shall close by pay tribute to the Hillsborough family . they be the embodiment of the great of human quality : immense courage in the face of the most terrible grief ; determination to get to the truth ; determination that every possible lesson be learn from Hillsborough ; and determination that the law be change to protect people they will never meet and never know . I admire they greatly . each of we owe those family the great of debt . I be nearly five year old when the Hillsborough disaster happen , less than half a mile away from my Penistone and Stocksbridge constituency . my mum have just have my baby brother and be on maternity leave , and I vividly remember watch the coverage of the horrendous tragedy , transfix by the screen . Meynell , the school where my mum work at the edge of the Parson Cross estate , be near the ground . see the horror of her realisation that some of her family might have be at the match be deeply upsetting . the image of the treatment of the fan by the police be etch on my memory forever . my baby brother be now a grow 36 - year - old man : the measure of the lifetime it have take to get the justice for the 97 fan who lose their life at the Hillsborough disaster . today really be a historic day . I be proud to be stand here in this moment as a Sheffield Labour MP and as part of the Labour Government who be introduce the Hillsborough law to this House . I be proud , too , that we have a Prime Minister who have make make this law his personal mission . this landmark legislation will help to close this chapter of some of our nation ' s darkest day . the Bill before we will be transformative . as someone who follow closely the evisceration of legal aid — and , with it , access to justice — under the Conservative Government in coalition , I be immensely proud that the Bill include the large expansion of legal aid in a decade for bereaved family , provide non - means - test help and support for inquest . the Bill contain criminal sanction for the most significant breach , include for mislead the public in a way that be seriously improper , under the new offence it create . do my hon . friend agree that this will be particularly important for people who have be disable by public gross negligence ? I do agree . alongside the public sector equality duty in the Equality Act 2010 pass by the last Labour Government , we will have create a shield and a sword for those disabled people . trust in public life be a delicate and precious thing , and the duty of candour on all public service within this Bill provide the scaffolding for this to be hold up . public servant must always tell the truth about anything to do with their job or face the consequence . in require that they do so , the Bill will lay strong foundation to build cultural change throughout the public sector , place public body under a new duty to promote the ethical conduct of their staff . this law be for the 97 who lose their life , but it be also for all those who fight for justice when they have be betray by the authority that be mean to protect they . the change that the Bill make will ensure that truth and justice be never conceal again and that brave family will never again be leave fight endlessly for the truth . anyone catch try to hide the truth will face the full force of the law . to Margaret Aspinall , the brave bereaved family and the hundred of campaigner who bring we to this moment , thank you for the decade of work you have do . we all owe you a debt of gratitude . with my whole heart , I commend this Bill to the House . I welcome the Bill and commend Ministers for the work that have be do on it . in particular , I pay tribute to Merseyside colleague , who have do so much to get we to where we be today . this Bill be about restore people ' s trust in the people who serve they , whether that be in Westminster , Liverpool or Bolton — trust that the truth will be tell when thing go wrong ; trust that when thing do go wrong , those responsible will be hold to account ; and trust that Government at every level will work for they , not against they . when I speak to people in Bolton West , the impression be often the same : they be tired of people in public office cover up their failure instead of be hold accountable for they . do my hon . friend agree that one of the central reason for public disillusionment and outrage be that there be no successful prosecution , or very few , in case of egregious state failure ? do he agree that unless wrongdoer pay a price and be see to pay a price , this impunity may persist , and that the duty of candour and the two new statutory offence will help overcome this malaise ? my hon . friend speak to the two new offence — clause 5 and 11 . it be vital not only that the Bill be pass , but that the authority have the power they need to ensure that the content of the Bill be enforce . when I speak to people , they want honesty and fairness , and for those in power to live by the same rule as everyone else . that be why this Bill matter . behind it lie some of the dark chapter in our recent history , which we have already hear about in the Chamber today : Grenfell , Hillsborough , the Horizon scandal , infected blood — the list be far too long . each one of those case represent life ruin by not just a single mistake , but a culture of denial by institution that close rank instead of come clean . give the time constraint , let I turn to the content of the Bill . it will create a landmark duty of candour on public official , alongside a new and important offence of statutory misconduct in public office . both will be vital measure in ensure that the scandal of year past can never be repeat . fundamental to the Bill be the new requirement for public authority to have a code of ethic , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) mention before I , which will start to rebuild the moral foundation of public service that too many people believe have be lose . I put on the record my thank to the Minister , who have generously engage with I on a number of point relate to the Bill . I hope the Government will consider three small , novel but important change I wish to propose as the Bill go to Committee . first , the Bill use two different definition of what count as a public authority . there may be a good reason for that , which the Minister can speak to in her wind - up , but for the duty of candour and misconduct in public office offence , elect representative , such as local councillor , mayor and Ministers , be include as per part 2 of schedule 2 , but when it come to the requirement to have a code of ethic , it exclude they as per part 3 of schedule 2 . that feel inconsistent , and I worry that it risk dilute the message that we be try to send , which be that everyone , no matter their position , be hold to the same standard . my constituent expect everyone in public life , from the Cabinet table to the council chamber , to live by the same principle of honesty and decency . secondly , may I gently suggest that we look again at put the ministerial code and the Prime Minister ' s independent adviser on ministerial standard on a statutory footing ? this simple measure be recommend by the Committee on Standards in Public Life in its 2021 report , " Upholding Standards in Public Life " . that be a simple way of ensure that the rule that govern Ministers today can not be sweep away by less scrupulous government tomorrow . thirdly , on the offence of misconduct in public office , will the Minister clarify why the Government have elect to set the bar so high ? part 3 be word to allude to " the nature and degree of any benefit obtain by the person ( whether for themselves or another person ) as a result of the act " . seek to be corrupt be not well than successfully be corrupt , so I hope that the Minister will look afresh at the relevant clause . indeed , the Law Commission have call for a definition along the line of the intention to benefit . as I recall from more than a decade tackle corruption , section 6 of the Bribery Act 2010 use the phrasing " intend to obtain or retain … business , or … an advantage in the conduct of business . " align those definition would make it easy for prosecutor to hold bad actor to account . none the less , the Bill be a huge step forward in the Government ' s mission to return politic to service . I be proud to support it this evening , and I look forward to work with colleague from across the House to make it as strong , fair and future - proof as it can be . it be a privilege to witness proceeding and to speak as this landmark Bill be give its Second Reading . as other have remark , this day be a testament to the courage , resilience and awe - inspire fortitude of the bereaved family of the 97 Liverpool fan who be unlawfully kill at Hillsborough , who shall never be forget . I pay tribute to the many member of this House who have be involve — those who sit here today and other whose time here end before they be able to see this crucial legislation . I acknowledge in particular the campaign that my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) have see through with such courage , and the powerful speech that we have hear , include from my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) and my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . it have be say that grief be just love persevere . the family ' pursuit for justice and truth , because of that love , have persevere through decade . the Bill will ensure a lasting legacy — on top of that which have already be build — for those who tragically do not return after simply attend a football game . it will also benefit we all , and we owe the family a deep debt of gratitude . in straightforward term , I see the Bill as provide in statute that truth can never be discretionary — it be an intrinsic and legal duty of be in public office and public service . it have not be an easy road to get to this point . I commend the Prime Minister for deliver on a promise that he make personally , regardless of any institutional resistance . we can not let truth be conceal ever again . no future family should have to fight a system for answer or be retraumatise by a process that be fuel by , as Bishop James Jones eloquently put it , " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power . " I welcome in particular the measure that go beyond the fundamental new duty of candour and offer assistance to family face an inquest . that will ensure a parity of representation between they and the state , in case in which a public body be to be legally represent . let we not forget that , at the first Hillsborough inquest , family receive no public funding for legal representation , while senior police officer be represent by five separate legal team . bring an end to that imbalance of power will support the inquisitorial nature of any legal proceeding , and , I hope , offer protection against the effort of a public body to obfuscate , intimidate or even withhold information . I would like we to consider how we can well ensure that any learning and recommendation from inquest or inquiry be implement . the honesty and integrity that the Bill mandate will far help coroner to establish the fact and come to conclusion about what event or action could or should have be prevent . family want their painful story to lead to change , but learning lead to change only if public body be make to act . I will finish on a wide cultural point . I do not think anyone would deny that public trust in our politic and public institution be at a very low level . scandal have erode trust , as body and public official have mislead people — and , frankly , hide the truth — to protect themselves rather than the public . the Bill provide an opportunity to restate that public service be here to be on people ' s side . my constituent , and all the community we serve , deserve to feel safe and support . to regain legitimacy , the public need to know that word and evidence from our public official and body can be trust . I hope that the Bill will lead to great integrity and further person - centre reform to public service , which I know this Government be commit to building . it give I great pride as a Labour MP to speak in this debate on an incredibly important Bill that will further right historic wrong — stain on our nation ' s history . although my constituent hold a range of view on many issue , they be unite in expect public servant and institution to act with honesty and transparency . the Bill draw a line in the sand , signal a landmark shift in the responsibility place on those who serve our community . with the Bill we can finally say that when the state fail and public servant do not live up to their duty , the man and woman of this country will not be leave fight for the truth . the duty of candour be about truth tell when the truth be inconvenient — even incriminate — and it be about ensure that the power of the state can never again be use to conceal wrongdoing , distort justice or silence ordinary people . as an MP represent a former mining community , the memory of the battle of Orgreave still loom large . on 18 June 1984 , hundred of strike miner gather to picket peacefully . what follow be a ruthlessly plan violent confrontation between police and miner ; 95 be arrest and charge with offence include riot and violent disorder . many of the prosecution collapse when it become clear that the officer ' statement be almost identical and not credible , but still those man be vilify and for 40 year have live with the scar — physical and mental — and feel the crush weight , as the family of the 97 have feel , of justice deny . in July the Government announce a statutory inquiry into Orgreave , to be chair by the Bishop of Sheffield . that announcement be so welcome , but three month on many in our community be desperate for news . last week I and fellow coalfield mp meet the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , which remind we that with many miner have short life expectancy due to the gruelling and dangerous work that they do underground , every day that go by could mean lose testimony that would be crucial to the inquiry . as with Hillsborough , when it come to Orgreave , a duty of candour could have prevent a generation of injustice , and could even have disincentivise a culture of cover - up . the same principle of truth , transparency and accountability apply just as powerfully to the press . this morning in the Liverpool Echo , Margaret Aspinall , who have be such a powerful figurehead for the Hillsborough family ' campaign for justice , say unequivocally that justice for the 97 will not be fully do until we have proper press regulation and accountability for the lie that be tell by the Sun . she be right , and we owe it to everyone who have have their life tear apart by press intrusion or misinformation to take action . I think of Paul Dadge from my constituency who become a symbol of humanity in the 7 / 7 attack . hon . member may remember the harrowing image of a woman clutch a burn mask to her face , be guide towards an ambulance by a man . that man be Paul and , although he hate the word , Paul be a hero that day . but in the month that follow , Paul find that his phone have be hack by News of the World journalist . we all remember the denial and warm word that be utter throughout the public furore over the phone - hack scandal . it have now be more than a decade since the Leveson inquiry expose the corrosive culture of impunity in part of the british press . the second phase of that inquiry would have investigate the relationship between the press and police , but it be shamefully abandon by the previous Government . instead , the big paper create their own regulator , the Independent Press Standards Organisation , which have never fine a newspaper and have find in favour complainant in only 0 . 3 % of case . now that we be 12 year on from Leveson and in an age of social medium , action against press intrusion need to look different , but the principle of an impartial , independent watchdog be perhaps even more relevant now than it be in 2013 . I hope that be something under active consideration by the Government . whether it be the family of Hillsborough , the miner of Orgreave , or my constituent Paul , we owe they meaningful , permanent change . the Bill offer we a chance to do that , and I hope and believe that it will be the start of much more to come . I would like to start by pay tribute to the many hon . member and campaigner who have never stop fight for truth and accountability . we have hear many powerful contribution today , outline a painful litany of cover - up and scandal , where individual and family have be betray by the very institution that be mean to protect they . this Bill be also for those who be suffer , but who only now we be begin to see and to recognise . my constituent , Jan Hall , be a diethylstilbestrol — DES — daughter . DES be an anti - miscarriage drug invest here in Britain and prescribe between 1939 and the late 1970 . it be market as a wonder drug , but even as evidence that the drug cause harm emerge in the 1950 and after it be link to cancer in the 1970 , it continue to be prescribe to woman . this be potentially one of the big pharmaceutical scandal in british history , and something upon which this Bill will , no doubt , shine a light . Jan ' s mum , Rita , be prescribe DES . she die of breast cancer at the age of 32 , when Jan be still a toddler . Jan have suffer from health problem for her whole life , include cervical cancer , and now her daughter , Beth and Hannah , have have a series of gynaecological problem . we know that woman who take DES face around 30 % high risk of breast of cancer . their daughter who be expose to the drug have 40 time the risk of rare vaginal and cervical cancer , and also face infertility issue . on top of that , their son show increase risk of genital abnormality and infertility . this be an intergenerational issue and we be now see grandchild , like Beth and Hannah , suffer from complication , with research only begin to uncover the scale of the inherit harm . these woman have fight for decade for the recognition and justice that they deserve , but for too long they have be ignore . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have admit that it mislead the public for more than a decade . imagine if a duty of candour have exist for DES victim . imagine if the MHRA , the Department of Health and pharmaceutical company have be compel to disclose what they know and when they know it : generation of woman might have be spare devastating illness , family would have be spare grief , and trust in our institution might have be preserve . the Hillsborough law be not only a matter of legal reform , but a matter of trust . if the public can not trust the state to tell the truth when thing go wrong , then the social contract be break . the Hillsborough law give we a way to rebuild it . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s personal commitment to the issue and the reaffirmation that he will not water down the principle that give the Bill life . to all the family still wait for justice — this Bill be for you . let the Hillsborough law mark the moment when we say , finally and decisively , that justice delay must never be justice deny . first , I would like to record the respect I have for my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) for all he have do on the Hillsborough law . his relentless campaigning on it be equal by his dedication in fight another political injustice — that of food insecurity . it be fair to say that his community , the Labour party and this place be strong for he be in they . what a catalogue of injustice , cover - up and scandal our nation have see . there be too many for I to mention in the short time that I have available , but the common theme be that working - class community always seem to be the victim . forty - one year on , people be still wait for justice from the premeditate beating hand out at Orgreave . thirty - six year on , family and survivor who we have hear from today , include my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby , be still wait for justice and accountability for what happen that day at Hillsborough . eight year on from Grenfell , the memory of the 72 victim , and their family and friend , still wait for justice . incredibly , approximately a quarter of a million people will go to bed tonight in building with the same flammable cladding surround they . how on earth can we sit in this place and allow that to be the case ? because I ' ll tell you : if it be not work - class people who die in those building , then a lot more than what have be do so far would have be do by now . furthermore , the firefighter who attend the scene at Grenfell be now suffer from serious health consequence because of their incredible recovery effort . they too deserve answer and justice , and — crucially — the protective equipment that will keep they safe from the carcinogenic material that they be expose to in the line of duty . it be only right that my final comment be address to the Hillsborough family , both those here in Parliament today and those watch at home . you have wait so long for what be just ; I be truly sorry that it have take this length of time . you have show that change be possible and that , more often than not , it come from pressure apply by the general public , not this place . I pay tribute to the family of victim , and to the campaigner who have fight for decade , follow the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 , for this legislation . they have fight to prevent state cover - up such as the one that they experience . in the year since Hillsborough , far too many other family have not only endure the grief of lose people they love , but have their grief compound by injustice . instead of answer , they get obstruction and obfuscation . my hon . friend make a very powerful point about the obstruction that family and individual still face . a family in my constituency have for the last 18 month methodically uncover failing in the care of their father in hospital . he sadly die , yet the failing that they uncover be ignore by the medical examiner and in the pathology report , and they be not adequately address by the hospital trust . as a result , the family have be unable to secure the accountability that they seek for their father ' s death . do my hon . friend agree that the duty of candour that this Bill compel will begin to rebalance the relationship between individual such as my constituent and public body ? my hon . friend make a powerful point . there be still so many family fight for justice , and the persistence of family who have be fight for justice have bring we to this moment . we all owe they our thank and our action . I feel privileged to have so many colleague who fight alongside they for so long . I welcome the expansion of legal aid in the Bill ; after year of cut to legal aid , it be hearten to see the extension of legal aid to all family at inquest in which public authority be involve . as a barrister , I have represent party in inquest , include family , and I know how difficult inquest can be for family , even when they have legal representation and get answer that help they to come to term with what happen . for too long , family have face an inequality of arm when they have seek to understand and navigate the coroner court , and to secure the information and document need , and have seek the confidence to ask question without legal representation . meanwhile , they see the public authority from which they be try to get answer be support by their legal team . this be not just about funding ; it be about fairness . this Bill help to correct the balance , so that family at least have representation . it give they an advocate , a guide and a voice . that be not just compassionate , but essential to justice . I fully accept that injustice can still happen even when there be lawyer , but not have representation in those circumstance be an injustice in itself , and this Bill change that . I also welcome the fact that the Bill introduce new statutory criminal offence . that send such a powerful message that cover - up will no long be meet with dismissal ; they will be meet with criminal sanction . that be a vital deterrent and a long - overdue shift in accountability . mistake be make , and human err in the moment , but later on , there be choice . be the error acknowledge , or do people attempt to double down and persist in a false narrative ? if somebody acknowledge the error , they may be sack , but if they cover it up , they will not just be sack ; they will face go to prison . this Bill empower the frontline of our public service to say no , and to report it if they be pressure to participate in a cover - up . this Bill reflect the hard - win lesson of decade of campaigning . it will not undo the pain of the past , but it will help prevent future injustice by strengthen legal aid , empower grieve family , and introduce meaningful criminal sanction for cover - up . this legislation begin to rebalance the scale . it send a clear message that truth must come before reputation , and accountability must come before self - preservation , and it ensure that family will not be leave to fight alone . this legislation be all about a fundamental rebalancing of power between the state and the citizen it be mean to protect and serve . we have hear powerfully today from many member about the Hillsborough family and their enduring quest for the truth . briefly , I would like to add the nuclear test veteran to that list of campaigner for justice , include my constituent , 88 - year - old John Morris . when John be station on Christmas Island in 1956 , he be tell that british troop be build a new runway . in reality , they be test nuclear weapon , but the weapon that be intend to keep Britain safe from the soviet threat be far from safe for the man who be out in the south Pacific — they be effectively treat like lab rat , with little or no protection from harm . John be one of 22 , 000 british troop who be expose to radiation while on service in the 1950 , and who have campaign for year about the cancer and other side effect they endure . John ' s son Steven die at just four month old from birth defect . for 50 year , John and his wife face repeat indignity . they be wrongfully question on suspicion of have murder their son , deny information about how and why their son die , and deny John ' s own medical record . finally , a coroner ' s report suggest that Steven ' s lung might not have form properly be reveal . John himself have have cancer , and have have a blood disorder since he be 26 year old . he send I a message today : " great news about the Hillsborough law … for we vet , it ' s very positive " , because it will " make our life much easy " in get the answer they demand . he be pleased that in September , the Prime Minister agree to meet he to discuss the issue far , and he be look forward to that meeting . there be another rochdale resident whose campaign will , I hope , also benefit from this new legislation : 83 - year - old Sylvia Mountain , who use the pregnancy test drug Primodos , which have already be mention by some of my hon . friend . she give birth to her son Philip in 1963 , but Philip die of birth defect just 22 day after he be bear . today be the anniversary of the day her baby die , 62 year ago . Sylvia be tell by doctor at the time to stop be " hysterical " , and have be tell that no medical record exist to explain her son ' s death , but many other woman who be prescribe primodo suffer similar birth defect in their child , as well as stillbirth and miscarriage . victim of the Primodos test be still wait for answer . for more than half a century , these family have face a culture of concealment — of suppress evidence , mislead official conclusion , and denial of responsibility . John and Sylvia — two rochdale pensioner in their 80 , whose life have be overshadow by tragedy and loss in way that be very different , but also very similar — personify the decade of injustice that this legislation be intend to prevent from ever happen again . I pay tribute to both of they for their resilience in the face of unspeakable tragedy and suffering , and be proud to have they as my constituent . John and Sylvia want the state to recognise its responsibility before it be too late for they and other like they . it be in their name , and that of all the other victim of state power and cover - up , that I welcome this landmark Hillsborough Bill today , a Bill that it have take this Labour Government to make a reality . that bring we to the wind - up . I call Mike Wood . the Bill be the result of decade of campaigning and struggle by family fight for answer . the thought and heart of all of we in this House , regardless of party affiliation , be with the 97 victim of the Hillsborough disaster and their family . the tireless work of those family be ultimately responsible for uncover the truth about Hillsborough and deliver an element of justice for the victim , whose memory be tarnish by the unwillingness of some individual in authority to tell the truth . the Bill be also testament to the valuable work do by Bishop James Jones and his independent panel , for which we be truly thankful . the Bill be in no small part down to the effective campaigning of the hon . member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) ; he have fight for those who join he in go to hillsborough on that terrible day in April 1989 , but who lose their life , due to the terrible decision make by the stadium operator and South Yorkshire police . Hillsborough stand as one of the most obvious and harrowing example of the british state ' s failure to remain accountable , truthful and candid . unfortunately , it be not the only such example in recent year . we have have the Post Office Horizon scandal , the infected blood scandal , the family of pub bombing victim in Birmingham and Guildford deny justice follow police misconduct , and the failure of the british state to properly acknowledge and tackle the rape and groom gang that have terrorise community across the country . each and every one of these failure undermine the british public ' s faith in their government , and each be a scandal make bad by institution ' attempt to hide from responsibility , and to put their reputation and interest ahead of transparency and justice in the clear possible example of abuse of power . call for great candour and accountability be legitimate and welcome ; those of we in this place must always remember that our sole duty be to serve the interest of the british people and to do right by they . I thank all those hon . and right hon . member who have contribute to this Second Reading . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s confirmation that the Government will table an amendment to extend the duty of candour to cover local inquiry , which be a clear gap in the Bill as introduce . the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) speak about the often hear cry of " never again " . we must make sure that when this Bill enter the statute book , it turn that cry into a reality . my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) express legitimate concern about the effectiveness and administration of some public inquiry , and I know those concern be share by some Ministers in the Government . the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) speak about the need for a change in culture that go beyond legislation , so that take responsibility , rather than cover up failing , become the norm , and not just a legal requirement . the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) remind we of the outrageous experimentation on disabled pupil at Treloar school and the length that authority go to hide responsibility . hopefully some of the Bill ' s measure will be of some help to those pupil . the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) and for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) speak movingly about how failing in the NHS be make bad by a lack of openness , and about family simply not feel hear . the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) remind we of the long battle fight by nuclear test veteran . as noble as this Bill ' s intention may be , we must be ever vigilant for the unintended consequence of well - intend law . as this Bill proceed through the House , we will scrutinise it closely to minimise the harm that may arise . in particular , we must make sure that the Bill do not inadvertently create a situation in which Government and public service can no long function effectively , not because they be fall foul of the Bill , but because they fear that they may fall foul of it if its provision be apply in way that the Government do not intend . we must clarify how this Bill will interface with legal and disciplinary framework , include the civil service code . we must clarify how new standard of ethical conduct will interface with those and other framework , and we must have a clear definition of what it mean to mislead the public . under the Bill , that charge of mislead the public carry a criminal sanction . we obviously recognise some of the safeguard that have be include , but they be not as tightly define as they might be . if politician be to be able to represent the public effectively , we must be absolutely certain that this definition be watertight , because otherwise the Bill may give rise to a situation whereby legitimate decision make by minister be subject to politically motivated lawfare . we rightly expect our parliamentarian , official and Ministers to speak honestly , truthfully and with integrity , whether in the Chamber or outside , but clause 11 ( 3 ) ( a ) , by define dishonesty in term of " falsehood , concealment , obfuscation or otherwise " , risk leave Prime Ministers , other Ministers and even constituency mp at constant risk of vexatious complaint . we may differ about the adequacy , and even the accuracy , of some of the response that the Prime Minister give we at Prime Minister ' s question , but those disagreement must be a matter for the ballot box rather than the courtroom . we must also have a clear definition of the public interest , which be the idea on which so much of the Bill rest . in our political system , the public interest be not for bureaucrat or judge to decide . the public express their will through the democratic process , and elect member of Parliament to implement that will on their behalf . can the Government be sure that the definition of the public interest in the Bill will not conflict with effort make by future government to implement those democratic wish ? it would be profoundly dangerous for any single government to attempt to define the public interest in a way that would bind future government without give sufficient weight to the role that the public themselves play in determine and articulate that interest . at their good , public inquiry offer opportunity to genuinely learn rather than to seek retribution ; to establish what happen and how , so that action can be take to stop such event be repeat , more harm be do to more people , more life be lose unnecessarily , and more future be steal away , so that the oft - repeat word " never again " , of which the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough speak so well , can actually have some meaning . however , that can only happen with honesty , openness and a degree of trust — in short , with candour from all those involve . if this Bill can help to achieve that , it be well worth support . that be why , although we will work to tighten some part at late stage to ensure that it operate properly , we will support it tonight . it be a genuine , true privilege to close this second read debate on the Public Office ( accountability ) bill — the Hillsborough law . the introduction of the Bill be a huge achievement , but I echo the Prime Minister when I say that it be not bear here in Westminster ; it be bear out of heartbreak , out of unimaginable loss , out of the tireless courage of those who refuse to be silence . some of those extraordinary people have be with we today in the Gallery , and to they I simply say , " thank you . the whole country owe you a debt of gratitude . " I want to pay particular tribute to Hillsborough Law now . I pay tribute to Nathan , Pete , Elkan , Deb , Clare and Debbie , whom have all give their time , expertise and passion to this government to ensure that we deliver the good possible Bill . I pay tribute to the family member who lose love one at Hillsborough and meet we over the summer , who share their pain and who have rightly hold we to account every single step of the way : Margaret Aspinall , Charlotte Hennessy , Sue Roberts , Steve Kelly , Jenni Hicks and Hilda Hammond . I also pay tribute to the member who have stand shoulder to shoulder with the family member : specifically , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) and my hon . friend the Members for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) , for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) — my very good friend — who chair the all - party parliamentary group on the Hillsborough disaster for nine year , and be now the Minister for Local Government and Homelessness . I know that it have be significantly painful for she not to be able to speak in this debate , but she be with we tonight , sit on the Front Bench . the genesis of this Bill be the fight of the Hillsborough family , but it go much far . this Bill be for anyone who have experience an injustice , anyone who have have to fight against the state to be hear , and anyone who have have to demand the truth when it should have be give freely . at its heart , this Bill be shape by live experience . I also want to thank Inquest for its tireless work , and for hold that vital family listen day back in February with family from a range of campaign . we hear from so many of they personally about why the change in this Bill be so essential and the real difference that this will make in people ' s life , and why access to legal aid for inquest where the state be an interested person be so vitally important . I thank the family of Ruth Perry , Matthew Copestick and Connor Sparrowhawk for share their experience with we and highlight the importance of this . I can not thank enough Hillsborough Law now , Grenfell United , the sub - postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal , those affect by the infected blood scandal , truth about Zane , and , sadly , so many other , for their time , or inquest for the report that it produce . that have shape not only this Bill but wide area of policy , and that be why it be so important that the voice of victim and those with live experience be at the heart of what we do in government . but this Bill be not only for the major scandal that have scar our nation and make the news ; it be also for individual family — we have hear many of their story here tonight — and for the ordinary people who find themselves face the full force of the state alone . the Prime Minister have already set out why the expansion of legal aid be so important , but I also want to share a story that show why this Bill be need so urgently . in September , I have the pleasure of meeting will Powell , a father who have be fight for answer for over 30 year , and I be proud that he be with we today . he have be fight since the death of his son Robbie in 1990 . Robbie be just 10 year old when he die of Addison ' s disease . after Robbie ' s death , it become apparent that doctor have suspect that he have the disease and , without Will ' s knowledge , a test to confirm the diagnosis have be request but not complete . that mean that Robbie do not receive the treatment that could have save his life . will and his family have be fight for the truth ever since . they have be fight for the truth about what go wrong and why this happen . nothing can bring back Robbie , or those we lose as a result of Hillsborough , Grenfell , Horizon or infect blood , but what we can bring be truth . at the heart of every campaign and every struggle be love — love for those who family have lose , love that have become action and love that be determined to make sure that no one else suffer as they have and that there be last change . I commend the Minister for pay tribute to William Powell , who have campaign for justice for 35 year for his son , Robbie Powell , who die as a result of medical negligence . William Powell have do so much to secure this legal duty of candour , so it be right that he be acknowledge here in this debate , but he be still wait for a public inquiry into his son ' s death . can the Minister say whether she believe that this case , which have be describe as the bad cover - up in NHS history , meet the condition for a public inquiry — something that have be call for by the former Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention , and for introduce I to will Powell early this year . I know that the Secretary of State for Wales have also meet Will Powell . however , the hon . Member will know that grant an inquiry be a decision for the Welsh Government , and I know that he be have conversation with the Ministers there . every single life lose be someone ' s whole world . I be so honoured to bring forward this Bill and to represent the family who have so tirelessly campaign for it , but as we have hear , this be just the beginning . will the Minister give way ? I will not , as I have quite a lot to get through . as a victim Minister , I want to put on record my commitment to continue to listen to and provide a voice for victim . I will do everything in my power to make sure that when this Bill leave Parliament , it do so as the strong Bill possible . the Government will bring forward an amendment to make it clear on the face of the Bill that the duty will extend to local authority investigation that be intend to capture the like of the local groom gang inquiry , and the Kerslake review into the Manchester Arena attack . we will utilise power in the Bill to extend the duty to a range of ombudsman investigation , such as those by the Prison and Probation Ombudsman , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , the Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman , and the Housing Ombudsman . I will turn now to the point raise in today ' s debate . first of all , I thank all hon . and right hon . member from across the House for their support for this Bill . it be welcome and , as many have say , this Bill be long overdue . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , raise a number of potential issue with the Bill . she mention legal aid and say that the liberal Democrats would like it to be expand to those who be survivor , as well as the bereaved . I want to put on record that this be the big expansion of legal aid for a generation . the Bill provide for parity of representation , and will expand non - means - test legal aid so that bereaved family member can secure advocacy at inquest where a public authority be an interested person , but it do so , as I understand it , only in England and Wales . of course , justice be a devolved issue , but can the Minister confirm that , despite month of engagement with the Scottish Government on this UK - wide legislation , the SNP Government have fail to confirm that non - means - test legal aid will be available in Scotland , result in Scots family still rely on charity to gain access to justice — order . intervention need to be short . I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention , which give I the opportunity to address some of the issue concern devolution that be bring up in the debate . a number of hon . and right hon . member talk about whether this Bill will apply UK - wide , and I can confirm that the duty of candour provision will apply UK - wide . however , as hon . and right hon . member will know , justice be devolve in Scotland and Northern Ireland , so the legal system do not apply there in the same way that it do in England and Wales , which be why some of the criminal offence do not apply . it be for Ministers in Scotland and Northern Ireland to request whether this legislation apply to those nation . conversation have be positive , and we have engage very closely with our counterpart in Scotland and Northern Ireland on this point . we hope that these measure will apply UK - wide , but we can not mandate for other nation that be not in our jurisdiction . my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) make an important point about legal aid . it be for the Scottish Government to determine whether they will apply the same provision that we be provide for England and Wales . we be provide non - means - test legal aid for any bereaved person at an inquest where the state be a represented party . it be for Scottish Ministers to determine whether they want to apply the same . we have have a lot of talk this evening about how long this Bill have be in the making . my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) mention that she be proud that it be a Labour Government , in just over our first year in office , who have bring this Bill to the House . the Conservatives have 14 year to do something about this issue , and they fail . the SNP Government in Scotland have have 20 year to do something , and they have fail . it be a Labour Government who have choose to bring forward this Bill and to do something about this , to ensure that family get parity on legal aid and that a duty of candour apply across all our public service . a number of speech this evening address protection for whistleblower . I reaffirm my commitment to hon . member that the Bill do require all authority to set out a process to raise concern , and to ensure that procedure be clear and accessible for whistleblower . the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , who be vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for whistleblowing , request a meeting with I . I will happily meet she to discuss this matter far , because it be important that we address it . a number of member raise the issue of the medium , but they will know that that be out of scope of this Bill . this Bill provide a duty of candour for public authority and public servant . we will ensure that public service broadcaster operate within what they be permit . however , it be important to note that since the call for Leveson and Leveson 2 be introduce , the medium landscape have drastically and dramatically move on . the public do not consume medium in the same way any more . the vast majority of the british public consume their medium via social medium . I be pleased that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be on the Front Bench when these issue be raise . she have make a commitment , and she have already meet some of the family of victim to discuss what more we can do to tackle disinformation and misinformation , particularly about disaster and issue that arise in public and be then put on social medium . I will continue my conversation with she as the Bill progress to ensure that we address that . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) give a fantastic speech about how we need to be reasonable , proportionate and fair . I want to assure he that , when it come to legal aid and the parity of arm that be so integral to the Bill , coroner do have the power to enforce what be consider reasonable and proportionate under the Bill to ensure that family be not face with an army of barrister when they have a publicly fund lawyer advocate for they . that be not the intention , and we have put that in the Bill . a number of hon . member mention the definition of harm , and I want to reassure member again that there be a very low bar for meet this test . we have ensure that it do cover mental distress , and that that be not the only measure for a criminal offence . the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) mention those who falsify statistic — crime statistic , for example — where harm would not necessarily come into play . if an officer falsify crime or other statistic to make himself or the police force look well , that would come under the offence of misconduct in public office , so they would be capture in another criminal offence in the Bill . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) talk about something that be very close to my heart . he make an excellent contribution on the need for inquest reform , and inquiry reform more broadly . I wholeheartedly agree with he , as do this Government , which be why the Cabinet Office be take its time to get this right . it be look at quite a substantial piece of work , and I will endeavour to keep he update on it as we be actively develop our proposal . I hate to have to admit it to my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) but I be also a red , so I think it be actually Liverpool 3 — Everton 1 . I want to reaffirm my commitment to work with he and all Merseyside mps — in fact , all member in this House — and the family , as the Bill progress , to ensure that it be the strong possible Bill . there be excellent speech from my hon . friend the Members for St Helens North ( David Baines ) , for Liverpool West Derby , for Knowsley and for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) , who have be excellent advocate for the family of the Hillsborough disaster during their tireless campaign . I be determined to work with all of they as the Bill progress to ensure that there be no carve - out for the security service . just to reassure the House , there be no carve - out : the duty of candour apply to everyone , include the security service and include individual . however , what be different for the security service be the way in which they report such a breach — they must report it to a senior individual within the service to ensure that national security be protect — and I think we have strike the right balance in the Bill . however , I hear the concern raise in this House , as there have be concern raise outside it , and I be keen to engage in such conversation to see if there be anything far we can do on this point . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) mention the Chinook disaster . a commitment have be make to meet member and family of the victim of the Chinook disaster , and I have make a commitment to be at that meeting to progress those issue . there be fantastic contribution from Sheffield Members who , as well as the Merseyside mps , have feel the urgency to bring forward this legislation and the pain of the Hillsborough disaster in their constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) say she give birth not long after the Hillsborough disaster , and talk about how it have always stick with she that her baby be at home while so many parent do not get to bring their child home . as a six - year - old , I remember the death of Joe McCarthy , who live on my road in west London , so it be not just about those who live in Sheffield or elsewhere . it affect everyone across the country , and this Bill be so important for that reason . indeed , and for I that be a fantastic point . this law may bear the name Hillsborough , but it be a Bill for the entire country , and this Government have make that a clear commitment . a number of hon . member , include my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , and my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston , talk about the Independent Public Advocate . as the House will be aware , Cindy Butts have be appoint as the Independent Public Advocate . she be a fantastic individual who have just be appoint to her first role as the IPA , follow the horrific attack at Heaton Park synagogue . I be due to meet she later this week to discuss how she have find be stand up for the first time follow the introduction of the role in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , and her resource requirement and power . I will , of course , update the House if we both feel , as the IPA and the Minister , that there be furth to go in that respect . I be also due to meet my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston and Lord will in the other place to discuss , as the Bill progress , how we can work together far to look at the role of the IPA . I also mention the national oversight mechanism . whether the Minister think it require legislation or can be do by Government action , do she support have something that be share , publicise and know about so that we be not constantly repeat thing and we know where inquiry have get to ? will she do that in tandem with the Bill , if it be not part of the Bill ? my hon . friend , the Chair of the Justice Committee , pre - empt my next point , which be on the national oversight mechanism . again , a number of right hon . and hon . member mention that . as the Prime Minister state in his opening remark , there be a need for accountability here . we be look at how we can do that . work be be lead by the Cabinet Office on inquest and inquiry reform , and the Ministry of Justice have already do work on ensure that prevention of future death report be publish . I echo the Prime Minister : we do not feel that the Bill be the necessary vehicle to put in a national oversight mechanism , but we be look proactively at what we can do to ensure that there be accountability and transparency so that these inquiry be never again leave sit on a shelf , with recommendation ignore or put to one side . my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli , and my hon . friend the Members for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) mention an issue very close to my heart : orgreave . hon . member may know , because I have talk about it with pride , that my father be there on that day . I be the very proud daughter of a miner and nothing have give I more pride than this Government announce a statutory inquiry into Orgreave , which will be come forward soon . when the Bill become an Act , it will apply to inquiry that be ongoing . if an inquiry have start or be ongoing , the legislation will come into immediate effect and apply to all inquiry that be under way . I be really look forward to the recommendation of that inquiry and to the truth we will get , because that , again , be long overdue . there be concern regard the security service and whistleblower . hopefully , I have put some of those fear to bed this evening , but I look forward to debate all these issue in detail in Committee . I again extend the offer to meet any hon . member to ensure that the Bill remain as strong as possible when it finally leave this place and become an Act . I look forward to positive engagement with colleague across the House . finally , the Bill will ensure that no other family will ever have to walk alone . I be immensely proud to commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Public Office ( accountability ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Public Office ( accountability ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 11 December 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . Public Office ( accountability ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , broadcast that the draft Broadcasting ( Independent Productions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 October , be approve . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Broadcasting ( Regional Programme - making and Original Productions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 October , be approve . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . Energy Security and Net Zero Committee Ordered , that Luke Murphy and Anneliese Midgley be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Graeme Downie and Lizzie Collinge be add . — ( Gen Kitchen , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) woman and Equalities Committee Ordered , that Samantha Niblett be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Dame Nia Griffith be add . — ( Gen Kitchen , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Regulation of house in multiple occupation I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent regard the uncontrolled growth and lack of monitoring of house in multiple occupation across South Shields . HMOs be have a detrimental impact on our community , increase antisocial behaviour and contribute to the erosion of family housing . everyone deserve to have a place to call home , and everyone deserve to feel safe in that home . HMOs should not be allow to be use as a substitute for good - quality , affordable housing . the petitioner therefore request that : " the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce new legislation to regulate and lessen the proliferation of house in multiple occupation ; and to ask that each local authority publish their strategy and policy on HMOs . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of South Shields Declares that the uncontrolled growth of house in multiple occupation ( HMOs ) within the constituency be have a detrimental impact on community , lead to overcrowding , crime , anti - social behaviour , parking pressure , and the erosion of family housing availability ; note that HMOs be subject to different licensing regime under housing law , include mandatory licensing , additional licensing , and selective licensing ; far declare that while these licensing scheme provide oversight of management and safety , the planning system remain the main safeguard against over - concentration ; and far declare that without strengthened legislation , HMOs can proliferate unchecked . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce new legislation to regulate and lessen the proliferation of house in multiple occupation ; and to ask that each local authority publish their strategy and policy on HMOs . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003124 ] care Leavers Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) today mark the first sit day of National Care Leavers Month , and what a way to begin . I be grateful for the opportunity to come to the Chamber and talk about the challenge face young people once they have leave child ' s social care , and I very much hope that this month member from across the House can join together in the spirit of raise awareness of these challenge and work together to bring forward solution . I welcome the fact that the Minister be the chair and author of the independent review into child ' s social care over three year ago . I know that he feel deeply about this area and I be sure he will bring a wealth of experience to his role on the Front Bench . the theme of National Care Leavers Month 2025 be " rise as I : overcome challenge , transform , and find your identity " . the age of 16 to 25 be a formative time in the life of many young people , and care leaver should have the same opportunity to enjoy and explore this period ; instead , many face a cliff edge of support and service . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . care leaver need support ; they need the state to deliver for they when family be sometimes not there in the way that it be for many young people . do she agree with I and my Select Committee that we need to iron out the difference in support for care leaver across the country and that we should have a national offer for care leaver so that they can rely on support wherever they be in the country ? I completely agree . as we move through this debate today , I think a theme that will shine through be the need to get rid of what be often a postcode lottery for care leaver . I want to recognise some of the good work that the Government have already do in this area . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill mark an important step forward in ensure that support for care leaver endure beyond the age of 18 . I welcome the requirement for local authority to publish a full care offer for care leaver , which will offer clarity and direction . I know that there be already some good practice from my own council in Doncaster , with comprehensive offer of support , include the Staying Put and stay close initiative . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward ; I speak to she beforehand . do she agree that those leave care may not have have the financial advice and instruction that they should have have and that many of we take for grant ? it be imperative that they be teach how to be self - reliant and be able to manage their finance by themselves . do she far agree that such class should also teach these vulnerable young people , who do not have a family to help and protect they , how to protect themselves financially and physically from those who would seek to target they ? I agree . I think it come back to the fact that the offer be very different in different area , and that be something we all want to address . rise — I be happy to take an intervention from my hon . friend — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this debate . we know that care - experienced people face distinct discrimination and challenge throughout their life . as of September , 125 local authority have pass motion to recognise care experience as a protect characteristic , which be an important step towards tackle inequality . do my hon . friend think that this might be an appropriate time for the Government to follow suit and recognise care experience as a protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 ? I do agree , and I be proud that my own council in Doncaster be one of those that have recognise care experience as a protect characteristic . the council also have a support accommodation service , which include a rent guarantee scheme and council tax reduction , and a care leaver guarantee interview scheme . I also welcome the in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill the extension of the corporate parenting responsibility to all Government Departments to ensure a wide net of support and awareness when it come to care leaver and the unique challenge they face . early this year I attend the all - party parliamentary group for care - experience child and young people — along with Minister before he be in his current role — where I meet Fay , Caelan and Caitlin from Doncaster ' s child in care council . the recognising of care experience as a protect characteristic be due in no small part to the campaigning that young people like Fay , Caelan and Caitlin have lead . it just go to show that if these young people be give the opportunity to speak out , they will lead the way and show we what they need in order to thrive . it be pivotal that they be part of push the change we desperately need . while we have see some major stride forward , we must recognise the journey still ahead . the state have some responsibility for care - experienced child until they be 25 , but for many , when they turn 18 , the support and relationship that have be available to they up to that point be hugely reduce . leave care can be extremely challenging . in Watford , Hertfordshire ' s local authority provide support with housing , finance , education and training , health and relationship , and wellbee , but do my hon . friend agree that all these service have to work really well not just independently but harmoniously together to ensure that care leaver can take step into adulthood in a properly support way ? I do agree . have a holistic approach that be the same across all local authority be really important , especially because child in care often move around a lot and have to get use to new social worker , team and support system . we definitely need to move towards have one support package in place . accord to the charity become , nearly 4 , 000 child nationally either move home or leave care during their a - level exam in the academic year 2023 - 24 , and 60 of those child be in my home city of Doncaster . account that have be send to I from care leaver in Doncaster show the stark reality of life after care . young people report lose weight , become ill , feel self - conscious when go to a food bank , and be unable to access regular or healthy meal because they can not afford they . I thank my hon . friend for secure this really important debate . one issue that come up in my life previous to become an MP , and that have come up since , be access to period product for care - experienced young people , particularly as they transition out of care . my hon . friend have speak about the postcode lottery , and not all local authority necessarily provide that support . although some can access period product through education , care leaver may leave education and not be able to access they . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we move away from this postcode lottery and ensure that there be wraparound care , include for care leaver who be not in the education system ? I completely agree . period poverty can often be overlook when think about the whole system , but for young woman in care and leave care who can not access those product , it can be debilitate to their ability to access all the other service that we be talk about . one care leaver in Doncaster say : " even though I ' m not homeless now and I ' m safe and secure , it worry I that that will be the next step . it have happen before and it could happen again " . another say : " I don ' t think anyone who hasn ' t experience homelessness could understand how scared I be . " many in temporary hotel accommodation and still under corporate parentship have to face the choice between afford food or wash their clothe . one say : " the government be my corporate parent , and they don ' t act like it . would a parent allow a child to go a week without wash their clothe ? would a reasonable parent allow their child to be homeless or not eat ? " the answer to that be no . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful point in this debate , which she have thankfully secure . last week , a group of Southampton care leaver come to Parliament , and raise housing and accommodation as one of the most urgent issue they want we to tackle . I have hear she welcome , as I do , innovation like stay Put and stay Close , but support lodging be another family - base option for care leaver where the young person get not only a place to live but the practical help and relational support that she be use those young people ' s voice to talk about so powerfully . the early evidence be positive , but do she agree that with too many care leaver live in substandard accommodation and without that support , initiative such as Home for Good ' s support lodging be also worth government attention , particularly in National Care leaver Month ? I agree ; I will come later in my speech to a couple of local example of support lodging , which , if apply nationwide , would have a transformative effect on the support that care leaver receive . these young people often do not have the benefit of family support to help they find accommodation , or with rent and security deposit . because of that , they be incredibly vulnerable not just to homelessness but to a whole raft of predator who see an opportunity to exploit they . will the Minister work across Government Departments to increase the setting up home allowance , give priority to care leaver on housing list in authority where they have reside for over six month , reform universal credit so that care leaver be entitle to the over - 25 weighting , and commit to work with the Department for Transport and regional mayor who have power in the area to give free bus travel to care leaver up to the age of 25 ? while I be at it with the ask , can we also include free prescription for care leaver ? in the context of wide Government spending on the population , the number be small , but I think everyone in the Chamber — that include the Minister — know that do those thing would make a huge difference to the most vulnerable group in our society , include the young people I have quote and those on the mind of hon . member in the Chamber . there be other area in which care leaver be often disadvantaged ; I have see they myself . when I work as a prison officer , I be a single point of contact for care leaver in my jail . I learn that , shockingly , it be estimate that 29 % of the prison population be care leaver , and they also make up over 50 % of the youth estate . young care leaver be also 10 time more likely to receive an immediate custodial sentence than young people who have not be in care . as a Government , and indeed as a Parliament , we can not rest while that remain a reality for such a vulnerable group . will the Minister work with the Prisons Minister in the other place to develop a national care leaver in custody policy , ensure that support for young people — wherever they move to — be partnership base ? I will take a little time to pay tribute to an organisation in my constituency that have be mention previously . Doncaster Housing for Young People , which I be a patron of , provide tailor housing support in the form of support lodging with host family as well as float support to help sustain tenancy . the organisation have share story of those who have have to leave foster place when they turn 18 . one young woman in that position share how she be not ready emotionally or financially to live independently , but , thank to Doncaster housing for Young People , she move into support lodging where she could build life skill , continue her study and focus on her wellbeing . I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for give way . next week mark the first National Supported Lodgings Week . it will celebrate what those lodging do in offer the wonderful opportunity of a safe , stable home to people who can then grow and have their independence . she and I be both patron of Doncaster Housing for Young People , and we know that it have lot of experience support care leaver . it be go to go big on National Supported Lodgings Week . do she agree that the Government should treat support lodging as part of the core offer for care leaver , and that we should always strive to make sure that that support be a lot more personal and be less institutional ? I agree completely . the young person that I be speak about just before my hon . friend ' s intervention say that they be not ready for their own place but that the support lodging make they feel less stressed so that they could relax and get on with what they need to do . it be quite hard for people who have not be in that situation to imagine what it must be like to be on their own with no support network , no family and often no friend in an area where they do not grow up . when they be out there on their own , those support lodging be a lifeline for a lot of young people . I be sure that , when the Minister reply , he will discuss whether we can spread that provision more widely . other care leaver have share how Doncaster Housing for Young People have help they through link they up with other agency , and have offer support and help manage debt and finance . it be that holistic support that be so important to help young people leave care maintain their confidence and transition into adult life . Doncaster Housing for Young People be one of many charity across the country that offer that tailor support ; I thank they all for the work they do for young people . I of course invite the Minister to come to Doncaster to learn from Doncaster Housing for Young People , and to see for himself its incredible work . before I finish , I would like to reflect again on this year ' s theme for National Care Leavers Month : " rise as I : overcome challenge , transform , and find your identity " . we should all remember that , at the heart of this month , there be a group of young people who innately have the same hope , aspiration and potential as any of their non - care - experienced peer . they deserve to be ambitious about their future , to realise their potential and to become the adult they want to be . I join my hon . friend in welcome the Minister to his place . just this morning on my way down here , I visit the Newcastle - under - Lyme jobcentre , where I meet the brilliant staff who be support care leaver to find fulfil work and the dignity that come with it . will my hon . friend add to her list of ask for the Minister the request that we do more not just through financial support but through direct care leaver towards work that suit their need and their skillset , because that be important to give they the dignity to which she have refer ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I have not touch on this in my speech , but the number of people not in education , employment or training in the care leaver population be high than the average . that be a fact that we need to take incredibly seriously , because those people deserve to have the same ambition for their future as everyone else and to be able to realise their full potential . I be sorry to say that just be not happen at the minute , and it be the job of the Government to make sure it do . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech . tomorrow I will be host York ' s director of child ' s service here in Parliament to talk about York ' s care journey , which have be phenomenal . it have enable care leaver to co - produce service and to chair many committee . do she agree that that be an exemplar that can enable young people not only to gain confidence and experience but to direct their future ? I agree . my hon . friend ' s anecdote and those from colleague across the House show that there be many example of good practice across council and authority around the country , but it be important to weave it all together to ensure that we have a national strategy and support package so that every care leaver know what to expect and can access it . because so many of they have experience hardship and trauma in their young life , they probably have — more than most — the drive , resilience and determination to overcome the obstacle ahead , but we need to recognise that the system be stack against they . support and policy in this area be often not what grab the headline . they be not on all the election leaflet and do not feature in the poll , but if we in Parliament , regardless of politic , can not protect and improve the outcome for this most vulnerable group of young adult in our country , we have fail . the Government have the opportunity to let these young people rise as themselves and fulfil their ambition , so let ' s take it . I congratulate the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) and everyone who have intervene . I will keep my remark even brief than I say I would . we have already hear a huge amount about support lodging , and that be what I want to speak about briefly , as much as anything to highlight the cross - party support for what they represent , and the role that they can play for our care - experienced young people . supported lodging — a family - base form of support accommodation for young people age 16 or over — play a vital role . they accommodate predominately care leaver , but also young people at risk of homelessness . in support lodging , a young person live in the home of a host who offer not only a room but guidance , encouragement and belong . accord to research from Home for Good , which run the support lodgings national network , 84 % of young people say that support lodging feel like home , 89 % have a positive relationship with their host , and 90 % feel more confident about live independently as a result . as one young person put it , " be in support lodging allow I to take the college course I want to take and ultimately the career path I want to follow . " supported lodging can make a transformative difference . further research from Home for Good find that when young people live in support lodging for six month or more , we see an average 44 % decrease in the number of those not in education , employment or training . supported lodging also cost only a tenth of what residential provision cost , while deliver far strong long - term outcome for young people . however , despite what we have hear this evening , awareness remain low . only 30 % of the public have even hear of support lodging , and most local authority report difficulty in recruit new host . that be why I be proud to support the launch of the first National Supported Lodgings Week , which take place next week , during Care Leavers Month ; over 60 local authority and independent scheme be take part . my ask of the Minister be simple : I ask he to allocate dedicated funding to expand support lodging ; to reduce reliance on high - cost residential placement ; and to improve national data collection , so that we can properly evidence the scale and impact of this vital provision . we be all agree this evening that every young person , whether in care , leave care or face homelessness , deserve not just a place to stay , but a home where they belong . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) for secure this debate at the start of Care leaver Month . she bring to this place her insight from the prison system , in which she see the tragic and avoidable over - representation of the care - experienced community . there have be many excellent intervention and contribution by member from across the House . I particularly want to mention the repeat mention of the important role that support lodging can play in our care system . I agree that they be underuse — I thank the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) and other for flag that . I will gladly work with all member to improve outcome for this group throughout my time in this role . on call for a national approach to care leaver in custody , I can share that my colleague in the Ministry of Justice be look at this , and will give member an update by the end of 2025 . let I start by make a point that may seem obvious : the disadvantage face by the care - experienced community be one of the great social justice issue of our time . ensure that those who grow up in the care of the state have a shot at a good life be a collective obligation , and for too long , we have be find want when it come to ensure that the obligation be meet . that be in part because meet it be about provide asset that any Government or service would struggle to provide . these asset be so fundamental . they be the need for belong — a tribe — and the need for something intrinsic to the human condition : lifelong , love relationship . that be why , at the start of this first ever care Leavers Month , I say plainly , as the Minister for Children and Families , that the creation and sustenance of those relationship must become the obsession of the care and leave care system in England . when we fail care - experienced people in that endeavour , we leave they with life that be more isolated , a weak sense of belong , and question about their self - worth . the tragic consequence for some be a life cut short . Suicide and early death be , tragically , a part of the care experience for too many . to start to solve a problem , we must first confront it . that be why I have commission the Department for Education to review the shockingly high number of early death in the care - experienced community . however , we do not need to wait to act , and this Government certainly have not wait . we have a comprehensive plan to fix the child ' s social care system at every single level . that be core to the relentless focus of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on break down barrier to opportunity at every stage . let I give the House a sense of the recent action that we have take to improve support for care leaver . we have remove the local area connection test in social housing allocation for care leaver . that be crucial for those who have grow up in care and move around between different local authority . we have expand corporate parenting duty to public body , especially the NHS . we have commit to expand stay close and local authority offer of support for housing . we have disapplie the intentionally homeless test for eligible care leaver , mean that they should no long have to declare themselves homeless to their corporate parent in order to receive housing support . very recently , the Secretary of State for Education automatically make care leaver able to get the high level of maintenance support at university . overall , we have double down on the Families First programme , which will see many more family stay together successfully , avoid the need for the care system , include through much great support for kinship care . my hon . friend have outline the vast range of step that the Government have take in short order to fix a very broken care system , but these thing take time , and local authority be under unimaginable pressure — they be at break point in many case . what can he do in the short term to ensure that local authority can continue to provide care for look - after child and do not reach breaking point ? I thank my hon . friend for that important intervention . as a country , we must reset the child ' s social care system . we must move away from the crisis - lead approach that the system have be stick in for far too long , and towards early effective intervention for family . local authority need help and support to do that . they will have my full backing in make that transition . we be roll out a national programme that will leave no local authority behind in the pursuit of that goal . I will speak to local authority at the end of this month to set out more detail of how they will get the Government ' s full backing to make those change . far to that point , we must do much more to support the recruitment and retention of foster carer across our country . much of what we see in the care system be a symptom of a foster system that have be in decline for too long . next year be the centenary of the foster system in England , and I can not think of a well time than now to reset how we do foster . stoke - on - Trent have the second high number of child in care per capita — second only to Blackpool . the item that the Minister have outline be welcome for child in my city , but because we have that high per - capita number , the cost be such that more money be spend on child in care than can be find for those who be transition out of care . what be available to local authority with acute demand that be in distress , so that as a vast number of young people leave care and go forward in life , we be able to put social support around they ? I be in the unusual position of have be commission to do a review for a Government , and of then be in a position to start implement its finding . one of the thing I call for be additional spending to help local authority that be in exactly the situation that my hon . friend describe get out of that vortex with additional spending , and that be what this Government be do . one of my constituent come to my surgery to talk about her experience of be a care leaver . we discuss make care - experience child a protect characteristic , and the discrimination that she feel in the education system . on local authority , should we not do more to ensure that school and college have the tool need to educate our young people about the difficulty that people go through in the care system , so that discrimination be eradicate ? I completely agree . I first come across these issue as a secondary school teacher , and I see fully the impact that teacher , school , college , and university can have when these issue be spot in the classroom and act on . we absolutely should do more on that . I conclude by celebrate the extraordinary people who make up the care - experience community in England . when I meet people who have grow up in care , I always sense a remarkable determination , and the special perspective that they have on humanity and relationship . it be often call a superpower by other , and we should do as much as we can as a country to tap into the incredible talent of that community — talent such as those of Tony Simpson , partner at Oliver Wyman ; Meera Mistry , director of strategy at an NHS trust ; Allan Jenkins , the award - win former editor of the Observer " Food Monthly " ; Ivor Frank , a barrister at Church Court Chambers ; Jack Holton , a baritone opera singer ; Lemn Sissay , author , poet , and former chancellor of Manchester University ; Samantha Morton , Oscar - nominate BAFTA - win actress ; Kriss Akabusi ; Fatima Whitbread ; the noble Baroness Lola Young ; the noble Baroness Floella Benjamin ; and AJ , a young care - experience person from Coventry whom I have the pleasure of meet a few week ago . he be embark on his first few month of adulthood with the support of his grandfather , who the care system manage to find and reconnect he with . he have a bright future ahead of he . I will close with the word of Richard Henry Tawney : " what a wise parent would wish for their child , so the state must wish for all its child . " that be the spirit in which we should change the care system . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central for secure this important debate . we must all get to work for those in and leave care . question put and agree to . House adjourn .