Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — technology - enable VAWG what step he be take to help tackle technology - enable violence against woman and girl . I praise my hon . friend ' s work as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . she know full well the importance of this area . she will also know that the Government have pledge to halve violence against woman and girl over the course of a decade . that be one of our mission in government . Ofcom have now publish its draft guidance and I expect it , after that good work and good start , to implement that in full in the month and year ahead . like many , I have see advert for artificial intelligence app , which be some of the most download app across the world , target directly at teenager . these advert boast about the app ' ability to create AI video of non - consensual intimate act between real people without their knowledge . we know that these tool disproportionately hurt woman and young people . what step be the Secretary of State take to protect woman , girl and young boy from this deeply malicious use of artificial intelligence , and will he take action against AI company that promote these feature ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for her question , because she raise an incredibly important point . it be one that be tackle in our manifesto — our promise of change for the country — and it be one that we be now deliver in government . we will bring forward amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , and we be work closely with Baroness Owen in the House of Lords to make sure that they be effective . we expect these issue to be deal with . the creation of non - consensual deepfake will become illegal , and they will be tackle into the future . technology be a significant enabler of trafficking , which have affect many woman in my constituency . the incredible social enterprise Bramber Bakehouse support woman victim and survivor of traffic through the art of bake . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Bramber Bakehouse and its founder , Lucy Butt , on their work and on she be the inaugural co - chair of the new domestic abuse network in Eastbourne , which be try to reduce violence against woman and girl ? I praise the work of the charity that the hon . member mention in his constituency . may I also praise he for the interview he give at the weekend on this subject , which be very touching indeed ? I assure he that the experience be tackle by the charity he mention and the one he raise in his interview be be tackle by this Government . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I applaud the Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl over a decade , even as the vector for that violence evolve . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee inquiry into harmful social medium algorithm have hear how they can drive the adoption of misogynist and extremist view among young man and boy , as powerfully illustrate in the series " Adolescence " . do the Online Safety Act 2023 give Ofcom the power to address these harm before they reach the threshold of illegality , and if so , how ? I thank my hon . friend in particular for the work she be do on behalf of her Select Committee . I be also grateful for the national debate that have be spark by the programme " Adolescence " . it be incredibly important that we act in these area . the power that come in last week to take down illegal content , but also the power that be come in later this year in June , will mean that all those publishing content must make sure it be age - appropriate . that will be a step forward . I be watch the impact of these new power closely , and I will act accordingly if they be not strong enough . significant concern be raise in the recent Westminster Hall debate on the implementation of the Online Safety Act 2023 . will the Minister take urgent step to well categorise online platform , to well protect woman and girl online ? I can assure the hon . member that , whatever the size of the organisation and whatever category that organisation or platform be in , the onus be on they . the legal duty to remove illegal content and to act with the new power that will be come in later this year remain intact , and they must act . I expect Ofcom to use those power as assertively as necessary to make sure that people be protect in our country . I call the shadow Minister . tragically , flaw in datum and its processing be pose grave risk to woman and girl . the Sullivan report expose serious failing in the collection and use of biological sex datum , which be often be replace with gender identity . the report highlight the risk that pose to the safe delivery of health service , policing and security . the Health Secretary have already show leadership on this issue , but to date the Secretary of State have remain silent . when do he first have sight of the Sullivan report , and when do he intend to act on it ? the hon . Gentleman be right to ask that question . the Government be act on it , and the Health Secretary have be act on it . I myself have contact all Government Departments on the back of that important review to ensure that every Department be aware of it , of some of its content , and of its relevance to different Departments , and I will be meet the author in the come day and week to ensure that she be satisfied with the action that the Government be take . Motor Neurone Disease if he will have discussion with Cabinet colleague on provide additional support for research into motor neurone disease . we work closely with the Department of Health and Social Care to support research into this terrible disease . UK Research and Innovation invest £ 10 million in MND research in 2023 - 24 , and it also play a key role in fund the underpinning research that benefit medical research more generally . since 2022 , the Medical Research Council and the National Institute for Health and Care Research have award £ 2 . 8 million to MND project lead by scottish research organisation . my hon . friend will know of the important work of MND campaigner , include my constituent Mark Sommerville , who be seek more Government investment in MND research . I recognise that any further plan for research and development investment would be outline after the spending review in June , but can my hon . friend give some reassurance to those with MND and their family , for whom time matter so much , that the Department be give consideration to boost investment in MND research , work with key partner to accelerate the development of new treatment ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for draw attention to the work of the Mark Sommerville Foundation in this important area . government funder be invest in MND research to accelerate progress . let I give just one example . through UK Research and Innovation and the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Government be invest £ 6 million in the MND translational accelerator , lead by Dementias Platform UK . the aim of the fund project be to accelerate the development of treatment for MND . it be good to hear that there be continue investment in the search for therapy and indeed cure to deal with this horrific disease , but even if therapy do emerge , one of the frustration in get they to patient may be the inability of scientist to obtain access to clinical trial . in " Life Sciences Vision " , publish in 2021 , a number of group combine to look into access to clinical trial in the UK and the possibility of increase the number of such trial , but acceleration have not be good . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for life science , and one of the comment I hear most frequently in the industry be about the need for a more focused effort in this regard . would the Minister consider establish a clinical trial taskforce in her Department to drive this important work forward ? the Government be do and have do a great deal . we have continue to support this work through both UKRI and the NIHR , and a large amount of funding have go into clinical research . however , I should be happy to discuss the issue far with the right hon . Gentleman , and to let he know what more work could be do on clinical trial . UK Space Launch what plan his Department have to support a UK space launch . be a leader in the new space race be vital to protect the UK ' s security and deliver on our mission for growth . the Government have invest in a range of launch capability , include spaceport in Cornwall and Scotland and also launch vehicle . most recently , we invest £ 20 million to enable the UK rocket manufacturer Orbex to complete the construction of its launch vehicle . what work be the Department do to ensure that the UK space sector be a launch pad for innovation and investment , and create skilled job — both commercial and in the defence sector — across Scotland and the United Kingdom as a whole ? we have space skill across the UK , but we have particular expertise in Scotland . I enjoy visit Glasgow recently to see how every part of its economy support the space sector , especially the small satellite manufacturing sector . several launch operation , include Orbex , be target orbital launch from SaxaVord spaceport in Shetland this year . that be a testament to the innovation take place throughout the UK and specifically in Scotland . if that first space launch happen , and I believe it will , it will happen at SaxaVord in Unst , and the Secretary of State will be very welcome to join we when it do . for the UK space sector as a whole to recognise the full opportunity we have , we need to get serious about the delivery of the Government ' s space strategy . last year , the National Audit Office identify a number of challenge that the strategy face . when will we hear the Government ' s response ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that , when we come into office , we do not inherit a clear strategy for deliver on our priority for space . that strategy be now be develop . the investment we be make as a Department and a government into space , and the way we be make sure that our relationship with the European Space Agency be deliver for the british sector — we have more grant be deliver in the UK in the late round of funding than any other country — show that we be deliver . I share his enthusiasm and certainty that a launch will happen this year , and I very much look forward to be there alongside he to witness it . Mobile Coverage : Ofcom report what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of Ofcom ' s reporting of mobile coverage . I be sure that every Member of the House would agree that Ofcom ' s reporting of mobile coverage be rather over - optimistic and do not reflect people ' s live experience . I be absolutely determined to change that , and Ofcom be help I to do so . my constituent Lesley suffer from multiple health condition , include epilepsy , and live with the constant risk of seizure . her family rely on broadband to use the landline , but recently the broadband go down for several day , which mean she be completely unable to make call because of the ongoing problem with mobile coverage in Llandudno . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss how we can safeguard vulnerable customer such as Lesley and address the issue in Llandudno ? I think my hon . Friend also have a problem at one of her university , which we be go to try to deal with as well . she have write to I , and I will write back as soon as possible , but perhaps we could short - cut that with a meeting . I be conscious that , for medical condition , the resilience of someone ' s connectivity be just as important as the day - to - day coverage . I thank the Minister for his candour and honesty . he be one of the most effective , experienced and able Ministers in the Government . have pay those compliment , can I encourage he to visit Shropshire , where there be still too many notspot ? perhaps one of the reason be that this country have only four mobile network operator . be it not time that we have more competition ? finally , be the share rural network agreement likely to hit its target by the end of this year ? the shared rural network will reach its target . the right hon . Member make a very good point , which be that , frankly , the connectivity that people think they be get from Ofcom be simply not what they be actually get . their phone look as though it have lot of bar and be say 4 g , but they can not even download an app to park their car . we have to transform that across the whole of the UK . in the end , most of that be down to the industry , and I want to make sure that we remove some of the barrier to further investment in the industry to improve mobile connectivity for every single Member of the House . small Platforms : regulation what step his Department be take to ensure that small platform be adequately regulate to protect child from online harm . I welcome the national conversation take place about how we protect child online . the Online Safety Act 2023 require all regulate user - to - user and search service to comply with the illegal content and child safety rule . the illegal content duty come into effect last week , and I be closely monitor the impact of these duty on online safety . many school in my constituency of Mid Dunbartonshire use mobile phone as an educational tool , yet along with this learning opportunity come easy access to site post horrendous content . I would like to know how the Government plan to tackle small , foreign - base website expose people to graphic content . what step be the Department take to ensure that small platform be adequately regulate to protect child from online harm ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her question and the manner in which she express it , which recognise the complexity of smartphone use — the benefit as well as the potential harmful aspect . I can assure she that , as of last week , the power to demand that illegal content be take down have come into force . I accept that there be still illegal content online , but I be closely watch the way that Ofcom respond . I think that , in the come day and week , she will see action show how assertive it intend to be , and I expect it to be , in do so . it also have a taskforce look at the small but risky site she mention . I will be look at this very closely and support Ofcom in relation to its requirement to act in those circumstance . the domestic abuse charity oasis in my constituency have alert I to the appalling situation whereby young woman be be coerce into set up OnlyFans account to generate income . will the Secretary of State outline what step he be take to ensure that the sector can root out coercion and exploitation ? my hon . friend be a champion on these issue . oasis , a great charity , be lucky to have she here in the House of Commons as a voice for its work and for the need to make radical change to keep people safe online . I can assure she that the situation she describe breach several aspect of law , include the need to take down illegal content . I will be watch closely , as she will , and work with she to ensure that the new power and those that be come online be effective and that we adapt to these challenge in future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on my safe screen tour , to discuss online safety for child , student themselves be call for action . they talk about brain rot and the subtle but dangerous impact on their mental health , their self - esteem , their world outlook and their time . do the Secretary of State agree with the Liberal Democrats that , give this public health crisis and the massive profit make by social medium giant such as Musk , we should look to seek revenue from a digital service tax , rather than cut benefit from disabled people and struggle family ? I can assure the hon . Lady — she will have hear this from my previous answer — that we be determined to keep young people safe online . online activity and the service offer to people in this country and around the world be adapt and evolve fast because of the speed of innovation . we need a regulatory and legislative landscape that can keep up with that innovation , and we need a government who will ensure they be on the side of young people and vulnerable people of any age . I can assure she that , in this government and this Secretary of State , they have that . Digital Inclusion what recent progress his Department have make on improve digital inclusion in Sherwood Forest constituency . if we be to be a successful digital nation , we have to take the whole nation with we . we be proud recently to publish our first digital inclusion action plan , the first for 10 year , because of precisely that : we want to take everybody with we . too often , in ex - mining community such as Ollerton and Edwinstowe , in rural community such as Farnsfield and even in Hucknall West , people struggle to get a phone signal and access to the internet . constituent feel that they be leave behind and miss out on the new and upcoming technology that we know improve access to online job , education and business opportunity . do the Minister agree that we need to ensure such community be at the heart of the Government ' s digital inclusion ambition , so no one be leave behind , especially those in deprive community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and her constituency exemplify one of the issue we face , which be that we might have relatively affluent area cheek by jowl with much poor area . that be why , in our digital inclusion action plan , we have try to ensure that we address all the different form of digital exclusion , whether it be by virtue of age , ethnicity , educational background or physical geography . lack of access to digital service prevent people from apply for job , study and access healthcare , but community interest company such as Donate it , base in Wincanton , be help to bridge the gap by divert it equipment that be otherwise head to landfill . by refurbish that tech and distribute it to the people , school and group who need it , donate it be help to address digital poverty . how do the Minister plan to support such organisation to prevent electrical waste from go to landfill and to tackle digital exclusion ? I be really pleased that that be happen in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . we be pleased as a Government to be able to say not only that many Government Departments will make sure that we do precisely the same thing , but that many major employer will also do the same . it be crazy to chuck old kit into landfill when , frankly , it could be use much well to provide people with digital opportunity for the future . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I start by thank Professor Sullivan for her independent review into sex and gender datum . this be an important area , and we have share the report with Departments as part of our ongoing policy work . after landmark online safety regulation come into force last week , platform will now have to act to take down illegal content . I have just get back from the United States , where , from Nvidia ' s conference stage to investor meeting , my message be clear : the UK be hungry for the new era of growth that be promise by AI and emerge technology . as the Chancellor share her spring statement , that be an era I will keep work with she to deliver . the Secretary of State have today refer to space and AI as key driver of growth . close to home , in my constituency and across the country , our creative industry be huge driver of growth , but there be a battle with AI . if our creator ' content be take and they be not recompensed , that will damage the economy , too . be he talk to those industry and to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure that our creative content creator be protect ? I can assure my hon . friend that I be speak to both sector , and I be determined that both sector will get fit for the future as we face the opportunity and challenge . we be lucky as a country to have the second large creative art sector and the third large AI market in the world . this be both a benefit and an opportunity for our country , and this Government will navigate any challenge it pose so that both sector be fit to exploit the opportunity they have and for commercial gain into the future . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Luke Shipley have grow his tech start - up from two employee to more than 100 in just five year . this year , Luke want to double his workforce in Britain , but labour ' s job tax be force he to look abroad . while our competitor benefit , our community at home be miss out . why have the Secretary of State fail to protect they from Labour ' s job tax ? I can assure the business the shadow Secretary of State be refer to that the economic environment here will not only fix the foundation of our economy , but face the future . the very fact that so many people from organisation around the world be now build out in the UK show that Britain have the good regulatory , legislative and economic environment in which to invest and thrive as a tech sector into the future . thank goodness this Government be do that , instead of offer the decline of the previous Government . Luke say Labour ' s job tax be a huge blow to Britain ' s tech sector , and he be absolutely right . job be be destroy , investment be down and our wealth creator be leave the country . why be the Secretary of State not clear up the Chancellor ' s mess ? I be not sure that the hon . Gentleman have be read the news . we have have more than £ 30 billion of tech investment in this country from around the world . he should be celebrate that , not talk it down . it be inspiring to meet Safran Electrical & Power and tour its site in Pitstone in my constituency early this month . Safran be celebrate a world first : it have obtain certification from the European Union Aviation Safety Agency for the first electric motor to power new air mobility . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Safran and , give the crucial need to decarbonise aviation , will he assure I of our commitment to innovation in this sector ? I be so happy to learn about Safran ' s work . it be lead the world in electric motor for the aviation sector , as the first to receive certification from the European Union Aviation Safety Agency for power the future generation of air mobility . this be a Government who be support that kind of innovation and ensure that this country be lead the world in innovation , job creation , wealth creation and solve the big challenge the world face into the future . I recently speak at a United Nations event host by the French that look at how pornography and extreme content be contribute to misogynistic and toxic behaviour towards woman . will the Secretary of State tell we what proposal this Government have to implement the recent recommendation of the report commission by the previous Government ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . I have meet Baroness Bertin , the author of the report , and I be seek way to ensure that the issue raise in it be act upon . Beckenham and Penge be where local lad David Bowie launch his music career , and today it be home to a vibrant , talented community of creative whose work be increasingly seek after by AI company . our creative deserve a just deal to provide fair pay for my constituent and the legal certainty require to encourage Ai investment . what step be the Minister take to deliver that ? this country be a creative content superpower , and we will do absolutely nothing to undermine that . we want to make sure that people be properly remunerate for their work and that AI company have access to the high - quality datum that they need to be able to deploy effectively in this country . the Minister can see that the whole House have fill up out of concern at the atrocious mobile phone signal in Godalming and Cranleigh high street and in Bramley , Shamley Green and Peaslake . now that spring be in the air , will he visit Cranleigh to see for himself just what a problem this be ? well , I be in Pizza Express in Godalming only a couple of week ago , and the mobile signal be absolutely shocking . I could not find my way to Busbridge village hall . I be not sure whether it be the MP or the Telecoms Minister who be rubbish — [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] . in which case , we will move on to Prime Minister ' s question . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 26 March . today ' s spring statement will showcase a Government go far and fast on the economy . we be greenlighte the low Thames crossing , invest £ 2 billion in build 80 , 000 affordable home for working family , train 60 , 000 young people — the next generation of construction worker — and fix million of pothole . we be undo a decade of stagnation , bring job and opportunity for work people and secure Britain ' s future . tomorrow , I shall meet President Macron in Paris to discuss far our effort to secure a last peace in Ukraine . may I also welcome the delegation from the Bring Kids back initiative who be in the Public Gallery ? the abduction of ukrainian child be grotesque , and the UK will play our full part to bring they home . it be a stark reminder that any peace settlement must see Russia hold accountable for its deplorable action . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . under this Labour Government , NHS waiting list be down for five month in a row . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] the Hospital of St Cross in my constituency of Rugby be play its part , but many of my constituent remain concerned about long wait in A & E , which we inherit from the Conservatives — especially those constituent who have to travel to the general hospital in Coventry . will the Prime Minister set out how our plan for change to bring the NHS back into the heart of Government will help we to support the frontline and deliver well emergency care close to the community , which our constituent have long call for ? our plan for change have already cut NHS waiting list by almost 200 , 000 . that have happen for five month in a row during the winter month . the local trust ' s waiting list in my hon . friend ' s area be down 93 % , and he be do great job for his community . we have already deliver 2 million extra appointment that we promise because of the record investment in the Budget . the Conservatives can not have it both way : if they welcome NHS investment , they can not criticise raise the money to pay for it . I call the Leader of the Opposition . in 30 minute , we will hear the Chancellor ' s emergency Budget — even the Home Secretary ' s husband call it an emergency budget — as she scramble to fix the mess she make last October . but first , let we turn to another Government Minister who be make a mess of her brief : the Education Secretary — [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] why do Labour mps vote against ban phone in school last week ? because it be completely unnecessary . I have teenage child . almost every school ban phone in school ; they do it already . we need to concentrate on what be really important here , which be get to the content that child should not be access . I would genuinely like to work across the House on that , because there be a huge amount of work to do . but the battle be not with school already ban phone ; the battle — an important , emerge battle — be to work together to ensure that the content that child be access , wherever they be , be suitable for their age . we can look at the content , but if the ban be unnecessary , why have the Government start a review ? just last week , the Education Secretary describe a ban as " a gimmick " , yet teacher and headteacher say that the evidence already show that school that ban phone get well result . the Prime Minister be wrong : not all school do this . only one in 10 school be smartphone free . will he u - turn on this ? we need to ensure that all school do this , but the vast majority do . it be really important that we focus on the battle we need to have with mobile phone , which be the content that child be able to access . we need to ensure that that content be control wherever they be . it be a question of have the right battle on the right issue , not waste time on this when almost all school be already ban mobile phone . I be surprised that the Prime Minister would say that . his own Government ' s evidence say that phone disrupt nearly half of GCSE class every single day . Discipline be the no . 1 issue in many school . under the Conservatives , school become twice as likely to be good or outstanding after go through our behaviour programme , so why do the Education Secretary abolish that programme ? the right hon . Lady talk about the record of the last government . under their watch , a third of child start school without appropriate - level development , such as not be able to use a knife and fork . a quarter leave primary school without the require standard of reading , writing and math , and one in five child be regularly absent . that be why we be push up standard , with more information from Ofsted , transparency for parent and more intervention where school need it . the Prime Minister be not answer the question about discipline in school , because he do not care about discipline in school . everything he do be ideological , and his decision be cost school so much . the national insurance hike mean that every state school in the country have to pay more for teacher . the Education Secretary promise to compensate school in full for the job tax . why have it not happen ? it be Labour that introduce academy and push up standard . this be not ideological . I be a parent of two teenage child , both of whom go to a state school , so I be invest in this , and it matter hugely to I . there be nothing ideological about it . that be why we be drive up standard , as we always have do . the Prime Minister do not answer the question about compensate school for the job tax , which be cost school a lot of money . the ceo of the United Learning group say that the grant that they be give be 20 % short . some school will face shortfall of up to 35 % . can he guarantee that no teacher will lose their job as a result of his job tax ? it be this Government who put a record amount into our school at the Budget , just as we put a record amount into our NHS and public service , which be utterly fail under the last government . yet again , the right hon . Lady want all the benefit — the NHS — but she can not say how she be go to pay for it . that be what get we into the mess in the first place . the whole House will have hear that the Prime Minister could not guarantee that teacher ' job be safe . not only be he tax school , but he be lower standard . he talk about our record , so I will tell he what our record be : under the Conservatives , english school shoot up the international league table while standard fall at school in Labour - run Wales . academy freedom lead to the big improvement of standard in a generation , but the Education Secretary be attack they with her reform . can the Prime Minister point to any evidence at all that these discredit academy reform will improve school standard ? yes . take the example of school go into academy . the vast majority of school be already academy . therefore , we need to think again about what we do about fail school that be already academy . we need to go on to the next chapter . the Conservatives never take the big decision . that be why we end up with their record : open border , which the right hon . Lady be a cheerleader for , a crashed economy , mortgage through the roof , the NHS on its knee , and hollow - out armed force . what have we get already under this government ? two million extra NHS appointment , 750 breakfast club — include one in her constituency — record number of people who should not be here be return , and a fully fund increase in defence spending . that be the difference a Labour Government make . I recently visit Harlow college and see the work it be do train the bricklayer and electrician of the future . do the Prime Minister agree that the work of further education college like Harlow ' s be vital for the house building that we need for future generation ? what will his government do to support Harlow ' s next generation ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his constituent . we be invest £ 600 million in training up to 60 , 000 more skilled house builder to support the next generation and deliver 1 . 5 million new home . we be create technical excellence college and investing in stansted airport , create 5 , 000 job nearby , which will create more opportunity for young people in Harlow . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . the british drama " adolescence " have shine a much - need spotlight on the enormous damage be do by social medium to the mind of many of our young people , especially teenage boy . we have argue that social medium giant should be much more toughly regulated and pay more tax , so that we can defend our young people from this harm . we have have disturbing report that the Government be consider scrap the digital service tax and water down Britain ' s online safety legislation to appease President Trump and his co - president , Elon Musk . will the Prime Minister categorically rule out both those thing , and make it clear that he will guarantee that british law on tax and social medium will be write in this House , and not the White House ? yes of course , as the right hon . Gentleman well know . online safety be important , and important new measure be come in the next few month under the Act . we need to see whether we can go far on this issue , because there be concern about whether the measure go far enough . but will the law be make in this place ? of course they will . I be grateful for the Prime Minister ' s reply on the social media law , but he do not answer the point on the digital service tax . we will come back to that . move on , after President Trump ' s national security adviser accidentally add a journalist to a group chat that be discuss military action in Yemen , and give all the concern that we share about President Trump ' s relationship with Vladimir Putin and JD Vance ' s insult disdain for Britain and our armed force , will the Prime Minister order an urgent review into the security of the intelligence that we share with the United States ? we work with the United States on a daily basis . I think that the right hon . Gentleman would like to think of himself as reasonable and , when he be not jump in windermere , quite serious , but unpick our relation with the US on defence and security be neither responsible nor serious . Medina from Lyminge in my constituency be register blind . she recently tell I how she have be fail by the break social security system leave behind by the Conservatives . she face great difficulty get support from Access to Work , which be essential across my constituency , and be not help to find pay employment . it be so important that disabled people who want to work be support to do so . what be the Prime Minister ' s message to Medina and other like she , who have be abandon and shut out of employment for far too long ? every person should have the right to work , and we will always protect the most severely disabled and those with lifelong health condition . we need to support Medina and the 200 , 000 other like she who can and want to work . that be why we be invest £ 1 billion in personalised and tailor employment programme and introduce the right to try work guarantee . the conservative party preside over a fail system that do not help they and then blame they . we will never do that . those who know I well know that I do not talk of this often , but for half of my adult life I be physically disabled . when I first walk through the door of this Chamber , I do so with a crutch on my right arm to support my body weight . I know how it feel . right now in Scotland , some 55 % of child live in poverty have a disabled person in their household . can the Prime Minister explain to I — actually , no , can he explain to those child how the Labour party make mum and dad poorer will lift they out of poverty ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for share his personal experience of this ; he be right to do so . my family have live with disability for many year as well , so I understand the human element . we need to give support to those who need it , we need to help those who want to work into work , and we need to be clear that those who can work should work . in England , we inherit a fail system that could not be defend , but it be also fail in Scotland . the right hon . Member focus on young people , and 84 , 000 young scot — that be 15 % of they — be not in employment , education or training . that be terrible . almost 300 , 000 scot be economically inactive due to temporary or long - term illness . what we be do be take the step to help people into work with £ 1 billion of employment support . the Scottish Government have record funding under the Budget — what be they go to do to help the young scot who be be fail by their government ? the Wrexham and Flintshire investment zone be one of the flagship example of how , when the Government talk about kick - start economic growth , they mean it . this £ 160 million plan will breathe new life into the local economy and create 6 , 000 good local job , mean that young people in Wrexham will be able to find more opportunity on their doorstep . will the Prime Minister join I in welcome this important development for north Wales and the potential that it will unlock ? it be really important that we unleash the economic potential of north Wales , include by kick - start the investment zone , which be back by major business like Airbus and JCB , to leverage £ 1 billion of private investment ; invest £ 975 million to benefit aerospace worker at Broughton , where I meet the fantastic young worker ; and secure £ 1 billion of investment in Shotton Mill , secure 300 job on Deeside . we put a record amount of money into the Welsh Government at the Budget — a decision that be oppose by Plaid . Shale Gas Wells for what reason the Government have order that the UK ' s two shale gas well be permanently seal . the right hon . Member ask about shale gas . there be very real economic and environmental consequence to fracke , and community have clearly say no . I be sorry , but that answer have nothing to do with my question , which be to ask why the Government be order the permanent sealing of Britain ' s only two shale gas well . the Government be perfectly entitle on environmental ground not to exploit such well in normal condition , but do the Prime Minister not recognise that take a decision now to concrete these thing over so that a future Government can not use they in a desperate situation , such as an international conflict where other source of power be cut off from we , be an extremely irresponsible and reckless thing to do ? the right hon . Member know that there be real consequence of fracke , as I have set out . what we need to do to secure our independence and the next generation of job and to low bill be move at speed to renewable energy . that be why I be pleased that record investment be come into renewable energy so that a tyrant like Putin can not put his boot on our throat . if the conservative party do not want to support that investment , they should say so . engagement will the Prime Minister join I in thank colleague from across the House and the excellent Clerks and staff who have spend the last few month work on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Committee ? do he agree that if the law be to change on assist dying , it be extremely important to implement that change as soon as it be safe and practicable to do so ? I congratulate all colleague work on the Bill and take part in the debate . it be an important issue on which there be different view across the House and within party . the Bill be a matter for the House , but it be the Government ' s role to ensure that every piece of legislation that pass through Parliament be effective and workable , so we will continue to work with my hon . friend , as the Bill ' s promoter , to do that in the same way that we do for every private Member ' s Bill that pass Second Reading . if Parliament choose to pass the Bill , the Government will implement it in a way that be safe and practicable . Acorns child ' s hospice provide compassionate care to very young cancer patient and their family across Bromsgrove and the village , yet it face a staggering £ 416 , 000 increase in national insurance contribution as a result of choice make by this Government . with no exemption for hospice and no uplift in non - capital funding , this mean that the charity will have to draw on charitable donation make by the public , which will affect frontline service . this be not right , so will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to right that wrong and exempt hospice from this tax ? we be invest £ 100 million in adult and child ' s hospice to improve facility , equipment and accommodation , as well as £ 26 million in funding through the child ' s hospice grant . [ interruption . ] conservative Members ’ cry and moaning would have a lot more value if they start their question with an apology for crash the economy in the first place . road in Burton and Uttoxeter and across Staffordshire be litter with pothole . local people be fork out thousand because of the Conservatives ' neglect and incompetence , despite this Labour Government give Tory Staffordshire county council £ 39 million to get the job do . do the Prime Minister agree that the people of Staffordshire deserve well than road with more dimple than a Staffordshire oatcake ? my hon . friend be right . pothole be a real nuisance ; if somebody be use their car or van for work and they hit a pothole , they be look at a bill of several hundred pound , which for many work family be unbudgete for . that be why we be hand the West Midlands combine authority an additional £ 8 . 6 million to help repair its road , as part of a record £ 1 . 6 billion invest across the country . on top of that , every council must now publish how many pothole it have fill so that we can show that we be make progress and deliver — something that do not happen under the last government . when he be Director of Public Prosecutions , I do not think the right hon . and learn Gentleman would have sit comfortably in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Cameron , but incredibly in Scotland , we have a situation in which the head of prosecution — the Lord Advocate — do sit in Cabinet . this situation have be throw into sharp focus lately by a police probe into the finance of the SNP , and have be throw far into focus because , although not personally involved , the Lord Advocate ultimately sit at the head of the investigation into former First Minister Nicola Sturgeon , who face potential criminal charge . this situation have be create by the SNP , who will not fix it . do it sit with this House to amend the situation ? this be a really important issue , and Labour in Scotland have be clear that it would separate that role . that be the right thing to do , for the reason that have just be articulate ; it be the obvious thing to do , and obviously it be what we do in England and Wales . there have be call for a review of this issue since 2021 , but the SNP have not act fast on those call . it really do need to bring forward proposal now to deal with this problem , which have be sit there for a very long time . I join the Prime Minister in welcome the delegation from Bring Kids back , which be try to return the ten of thousand of child abduct by Vladimir Putin in an act of pure evil . the Prime Minister will be aware that that initiative have be work with Yale University ' s humanitarian lab , which be track thousand of those child inside Russia until recently — I say " until recently " because it have have its long - term funding remove . will he consider use our exist contribution to the partnership fund for a resilient Ukraine to resume that important work , and in do so , restore the hope that those child can be return to their anguished family ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for emphasise this issue again . Russia ' s abduction of ukrainian child be sicken — I think all of we across the House would agree on that . a peace settlement in Ukraine must see Russia hold to account and those child reunite with their family . in specific reference to my hon . friend ' s question , the UK be play our full part in international effort , include fund the Bring Kids back initiative through the partnership fund for a resilient Ukraine . I want to reassure the whole House that we will do everything we can to see those child return and reintegrate as safely and quickly as be possible . the seven - year - old adopt daughter of my constituent Sarah suffer immense trauma in her early year . thank to support from the adoption and special guardianship support fund , she have be able to access much - need therapy that have help she to progress . however , she and thousand of other do not know whether they will be able to get more help , because in just five day that fund end , and Ministers have repeatedly refuse to confirm whether it will continue . can the Prime Minister give a cast - iron guarantee to vulnerable child , adoptive parent and kinship carer that he will not cut that fund , so that Sarah — in her own word — can give her daughter " the absolute good second chance in life she deserve " ? we will set out the detail just as soon as we can , on the basis of the principle that I set out early . the welfare scheme overall be not defendable on term , but it must be one that support those who need it . the detail will be set out . while our nation be be engulf last year by racist riot , in Slough , Christians , Hindus , Jews , Sikhs and people of faith and of no faith openly declare that if anybody try to attack a mosque in our town , we would stand in solidarity with our local muslim community to protect it . since then , however , many have become more fearful , with a rise in Islamophobic attack , include at a mosque in Aberdeen this month . will my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister confirm for the country what step the Government be take to tackle such hate crime and promote community cohesion , so that those seek to divide our british society be not allow to succeed ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he do great work to bring our community together , especially in Slough . any form of racial or religious - base hatred be abhorrent and have no place in society . we have set aside over £ 50 million to protect faith community and freedom of worship . that be the right thing to do ; it be a shame that we have to do it . our £ 15 million community recovery fund have be support community affect by the disorder last summer — again , that be the right thing to do , but it be a shame that we have to do it . the problem face by Heathrow early in the week have highlight again that since the closure of Manston airport in Kent , the south - east lack a major diversion facility . although such a facility would not , of course , have compensate for the closure of Heathrow , which be a major hub airport , do the Prime Minister agree that the reopening of Manston , plan for October 2028 , will be a significant contribution to the resilience of aviation in the south - east ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the concern about the situation at Heathrow and I think everybody be very concerned by what happen last week . there be clearly question that need to be answer on a number of front in relation to what happen , and an investigation be ongoing . I will not announce particular part of our policy and strategy here , at this stage . in my constituency of North Ayrshire and Arran , the SNP ferry fiasco be have a devastating social and economic impact on Ardrossan and the Isle of Arran . as well as a calmac ferry be build that do not fit into the exist harbour , the Fraser of Allander Institute estimate that the disrupt ferry cost the Isle of Arran £ 170 , 000 of lose revenue per day . do the Prime Minister agree that the SNP Government need to find a rapid solution to swiftly address this serious situation ? I thank my hon . friend for fight SNP incompetence on behalf of her constituent . yet again , the SNP be fail island community . hospital appointment be be miss and livelihood destroy . Scotland have a proud history of shipbuilding and engineering . the SNP should be support scottish worker and focus on deliver for our community . Canford Magna in my constituency be propose as a site for a new energy - from - waste incinerator , which will burn 260 , 000 tonne of waste a year — more than the whole of Dorset ' s use . I be concerned that as we reduce our level of waste with the brilliant new plan to recycle more , we will end up have to feed the monster . the area already have 95 % of the capacity , so do the Prime Minister agree that we should not allow new plant where we already have sufficient capacity or where carbon capture will not be include ? I hope the hon . Lady will forgive I , but I do not know the detail of the particular incinerator she speak of and I be not across that . I will make sure , however , that she get an answer to her question in write form as soon as possible . may I commend my right hon . and learn Friend for his leadership on Ukraine , show that the UK be once again at the forefront of protect democratic freedom ? do he agree that as our defence spending increase , we need to support our supply chain company to increase their capability , create good job and apprenticeship in place such as Stockton North and across the country ? will he meet I and the Teesside defence and innovation cluster that I have establish , which be help to create that new defence capability for the UK ? this be a once - in - a - generation moment for the security of our country and our continent . we have set out the fully fund increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % in 2027 , the big sustained boost since the cold war , but that must benefit british job and british business . that be why I will make sure that my hon . friend get the meeting that he want with the relevant Minister . in October last year the Chancellor deliver a massive tax , borrow and spend Budget . now her plan have collapse around her ear , with an emergency Budget to cut that spending , so have the time now come for the Prime Minister to state in public that he have full confidence in the Chancellor ? I have full confidence in the Chancellor — thank you . Albion Rovers have be a football institution in Coatbridge since 1882 . however , follow relegation and the lack of financial support for team leave professional league , it now face a deeply perilous situation , and the very future of one of Scotland ' s old football club be at risk . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that club such as Albion Rovers be integral to the fabric of our community ? will he join I in encourage all party to be solution - focus on this matter , and in encourage football authority to strengthen our club in the low league to help protect their future ? my hon . friend be a superb local champion . regardless of which club any of we support , we share a love of the game and they be at the heart of our community . Albion Rovers be exactly that — a huge point of local pride . I would encourage all effort to secure the future of the club . we be join in Parliament today by Katie Brett , whose 16 - year - old sister Sasha be rape and stab to death ; by Ayse Hussain , whose cousin Jan be kill by a sex offender who store her body in a freezer ; by Paula Hudgell , whose adopt son Tony lose his low leg as a result of childhood cruelty ; and by Becky and Glenn Youens , whose daughter Violet - Grace be kill by a hit - and - run driver who spend barely more time in prison than she be alive . support they be Jeremy and Susan Everard , who receive justice for the murder of their daughter Sarah , but who know that too many other do not . they have come together to say with one voice that it be time for we to start ensure that sentence truly deliver justice for victim and their family . would the Prime Minister agree to meet they to hear their story at first hand ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . the courage of these campaigner , after simply appalling case , be astounding and I find it humble . I be pleased that the Minister for Victims my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) will be meet the group — today , I think — and I look forward to meet they in future , because we must prioritise victim and make sure that sentence punish offender and protect the public . I thank he for raise that really important set of case . Spring Statement this Labour Government be elect to bring change to our country , to provide security for work people and to deliver a decade of national renewal . that work begin in July , and I be proud of what we have deliver in just nine month : restore stability to our public finance , give the Bank of England the foundation to cut interest rate three time since the general election , rebuild our public service , with record investment in our NHS bringing waiting list down for five month in a row , and increase the national living wage to give 3 million people a pay rise from next week . now our task be to secure Britain ' s future in a world that be change before our eye . the threat face our continent be transform when Putin invade Ukraine . it have since escalate far and continue to evolve rapidly . at the same time , the global economy have become more uncertain , bring insecurity at home as trading pattern become more unstable and borrowing cost rise for many major economy . the job of a responsible Government be not simply to watch this change . this moment demand an active government — a Government not step back but step up , a Government on the side of work people help Britain reach its potential . we have the strength to do just that as one of the world ' s large economy , an ally to trading partner across the globe , and a hub for global innovation . these strength and the progress we have make so far mean that we can act quickly and decisively in a more uncertain world to secure Britain ' s future and to deliver prosperity for work people . as I set out at the Budget last year , I be today return to the House to provide an update on our public finance , support by a new forecast from the independent Office for Budget Responsibility , ahead of a full spending review in June . I will then return to the House in the autumn to deliver a Budget in line with our commitment to deliver just one major fiscal event a year . let I now turn to the OBR ' s forecast ; I want to thank Richard Hughes and his team for their dedicated work . the increase global uncertainty have have two consequence : first on our public finance and secondly on our economy . I will take each in turn . in the autumn , I set out our new fiscal rule that would guide this government . these fiscal rule be non - negotiable . they be the embodiment of this Government ' s unwavere commitment to bring stability to our economy and to ensure security for work people , because the british people have see what happen when a Government borrow beyond their mean . the mini - Budget deliver by the Conservatives result in high bill , high rent and high mortgage , and it be not the wealthy who suffer most when they crash the economy ; it be ordinary work people . they continue to feel the effect two and a half year later of the damage that the Conservatives do . let I be clear : there be nothing progressive , there be nothing Labour , about work people pay the price for economic irresponsibility . the british people put their trust in this Labour Government because they know that we — they know that I — would never take risk with the public finance and would never do anything to put household finance in danger . we must earn that trust every single day . I set out two rule at the Budget . the first be our stability rule , which ensure that public spending be under control , balance the current budget by 2029 - 30 so that day - to - day spending be meet by tax receipt . the second be our investment rule to drive growth in the economy , ensure that net financial debt fall by the end of the forecast period , while enable we to invest alongside business . turn first to the stability rule , the OBR ' s forecast show that before the step that I will take in this statement , the current budget would have be in deficit by £ 4 . 1 billion in 2029 - 30 , have be project to be in surplus by £ 9 . 9 billion in the autumn , as the UK , alongside our international peer like France and Germany , have see the cost of borrow rise during this period of heighten uncertainty in global market . as a result of the step that I be take today , I can confirm that I have restore in full our headroom against the stability rule , move from a deficit of £ 36 . 1 billion in 2025 - 26 and £ 13 . 4 billion in 2026 - 27 to a surplus of £ 6 billion in 2027 - 28 , £ 7 . 1 billion in 2028 - 29 and £ 9 . 9 billion in 2029 - 30 . that compare with the headroom leave by the previous Government of just £ 6 . 5 billion . that mean that we be continue to meet the stability rule two year early , build resilience to shock in this , a more uncertain world . the OBR forecast that the investment rule would also be meet two year early , with net financial debt of 82 . 9 % of gdp in ' 25 - 26 and 83 . 5 % in ' 26 - 27 , before fall to 83 . 4 % in ' 27 - 28 , to 83 . 2 % in 2028 - 29 and then to 82 . 7 % in 2029 - 30 , provide headroom of £ 15 . 1 billion in the final year of the forecast , broadly unchanged from the autumn forecast . after the last Government double the national debt — [ interruption . ] after they double the national debt , debt interest payment now stand at £ 105 . 2 billion this year . that be more than we allocate to defence , the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice combine . that be the legacy of the conservative party . the responsible choice be to reduce our level of debt and borrowing in the year ahead , so that we can spend more on the priority of work people , and that be exactly what this Government will do . I say that our fiscal rule be non - negotiable and I mean it . I will always deliver economic stability and I will always put work people first . I say it at the election ; I say it at the Budget ; and I say it again today . let I now set out the step that the Government have take . at the Budget we protect work people by keep our promise not to raise their rate of national insurance , income tax or vat . at the same time , we begin to rebuild our public service after the Conservatives leave a £ 22 billion black hole in our public finance . our be the right choice : the right choice for stability and the right choice for renewal , fund by the decision that we take on tax . as I promise in the autumn , this statement do not contain any further tax increase , but when work people be pay their taxis while still struggle with the cost of living , it can not be right that other be still evade what they rightly owe in tax . in the Budget , I deliver the most ambitious package of measure we have ever see to cut down on tax evasion , raise £ 6 . 5 billion per year by the end of the forecast . today I go far , continue our investment in cut - edge technology , invest in HMRC ' s capacity to crack down on tax avoidance , and set out plan to increase the number of tax fraudster charge every year by 20 % . these change raise a furth £ 1 billion , take the total revenue raise from reduce tax evasion , under this Labour Government , to £ 7 . 5 billion . these figure be verify by the Office for Budget Responsibility and I to thank my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary for his continued work in this area . last week , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions set out this Government ' s plan to reform the welfare system . the Labour party be the party of work : we believe that if you can work , you should work , but if you can not work , you should be properly support . this Government inherit a broken system : more than 1 , 000 people every day be qualify for personal independence payment ; one in eight young people be not in employment , education or training . if we do nothing , we be write off an entire generation . that can not be right and we will not stand for it . it be a waste of their potential and it be a waste of their future , and we will change it . as my right hon . Friend say in her statement last week , the final costing will be subject to the OBR ' s assessment . today , the OBR have say that it estimate that the package will save £ 4 . 8 billion in the welfare budget , reflect its judgment on behavioural effect and wide factor . this also reflect final adjustment to the overall package , consistent with the Secretary of State ' s statement last week and the Government ' s " pathway to work " Green Paper . the universal credit standard allowance will increase from £ 92 per week in 2025 - 26 to £ 106 per week by 2029 - 30 , while the universal credit health element will be cut for new claimant by around 50 % and then freeze . on top of that , we be invest £ 1 billion to provide guarantee , personalised employment support to help people back into work , and £ 400 million to support the Department for Work and Pensions and our jobcentre to deliver these change effectively and fairly , take total saving from the package to £ 3 . 4 billion . while spend on disability and sickness benefit will continue to rise , these plan mean that welfare spending as a share of GDP will fall between 2026 and the end of the forecast period , which be very different from what we inherit from the conservative party . we be reform our welfare system , make it more sustainable , protect the most vulnerable and , most importantly , support more people back into secure work and lift they out of poverty . at the Budget , I fix the foundation of our economy to deliver on the promise of change . that work have already begin . there be some 2 million extra appointment in our NHS ; waiting list be down ; new breakfast club be open across England ; there have be the large settlement in real term for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland in the history of devolution ; and asylum cost be fall — promise make , and promise keep , and every single one of they be oppose by opposition party . at the Budget , alongside provide an increase in funding for this year and next , I set the envelope for the spending review , which we will deliver in June , lead by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . that will set departmental budget until 2028 - 29 for day - to - day spending , and until 2029 - 30 for capital spending . today ' s statement reflect two step that we have take on our spending plan . first , because we be live in an uncertain world , as the Prime Minister have set out , we will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp and reduce overseas aid to 0 . 3 % of gross national income . that mean that we save £ 2 . 6 billion in day - to - day spending in 2029 - 30 to fund our more capital - intensive defence commitment . secondly , in recent month , we have begin to fundamentally reform the british state , drive efficiency and productivity across Government to deliver tangible saving and improve service across our country . early this month , the Prime Minister set out our plan to abolish the arm ' s length body NHS England , and to ensure that money go directly to improve the service for patient . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be drive forward vital reform to increase NHS productivity , and be bear down on costly agency spend to save money so that we can improve patient care . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be take forward work to reduce the cost of run Government significantly — by 15 % . that will be worth £ 2 billion by the end of the decade . this work show that we can make our state lean and more agile , and deliver more resource to the frontline , while ensure that we control day - to - day spending to meet our fiscal rule . today , I build on that work by bring forward £ 3 . 25 billion of investment to deliver the reform that our public service need through a new transformation fund . that be money bring forward now to bring down the cost of run Government by the end of the forecast period by make public service more efficient , more productive and more focused on the user . I can confirm today the first allocation from this fund , include funding for voluntary exit scheme to reduce the size of the civil service , and for pioneer artificial intelligence tool to modernise the state ; investment in technology for the Ministry of Justice to deliver probation service more effectively ; and up - front investment so that we can support more child in foster care , to give they the good possible start in life and reduce cost pressure in the future . our work to make government lean , more productive and more efficient will help deliver a furth £ 3 . 5 billion of day - to - day saving by 2029 - 30 . overall , day - to - day spending will be reduce by £ 6 . 1 billion by 2029 - 30 , and it will now grow by an average of 1 . 2 % a year above inflation ; for comparison , in the autumn , that figure be 1 . 3 % . I can confirm to the House that day - to - day spending will increase in real term above inflation in every single year of the forecast . in the spending review , apart from the reduction in overseas aid , day - to - day spending across Government have be fully protect . I can also confirm our approach to capital investment . in the autumn Budget , I announce £ 100 billion of additional capital spending to crowd in investment from the private sector , in order to fix our crumble infrastructure and create job in every corner of our country . today , I be not cut capital spending , as the Conservative party do time and again , because that choke off growth and leave our school roof literally crumble . that be the wrong choice . it be the irresponsible choice . it be the Tory choice . today , I be instead increase capital spending by an average of £ 2 billion per year , compare with in the autumn , to drive growth in our economy and to deliver in full our vital commitment on defence . this government will ensure that every pound we spend will deliver for the british people by increase productivity , drive growth in our economy and improve our frontline public service . let I turn to the impact of increase uncertainty on our economy . to deliver economic stability , we must work closely with the Bank of England , support the independent Monetary Policy Committee to meet the 2 % inflation target . there have be three interest rate cut since the general election , and today ' s data show that inflation fall in February , have peak at 11 % under the previous Government . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that consumer price index inflation will average 3 . 2 % this year , before fall rapidly to 2 . 1 % in 2026 and meet the 2 % target from 2027 onwards , give family and business the security that they need , and provide our economy with the stable platform that it need to grow . early this month , the OECD downgrade this year ' s growth forecast for every G7 economy , include the UK , and the OBR have today revise down our growth forecast for 2025 from 2 % in the autumn to 1 % today . I be not satisfied with these number . we Labour member be serious about take the action need to grow our economy ; we be back the builder , not the blocker , with a third runway at Heathrow airport and through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . we be increase investment with reform to our pension system and a new national wealth fund , and tear down regulatory barrier in every sector of our economy . that be a serious plan for growth . that be a serious plan to improve living standard . that be a serious plan to renew our country . a change world present challenge , but also opportunity for new job and new contract in our world - class defence industrial centre from Belfast to Deeside , and from Plymouth to Rosyth . in February , the Prime Minister set out our government ' s commitment to increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % of gdp from April 2027 — the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war — and an ambition to spend 3 % of gdp on defence in the next Parliament . that be the right decision in a more insecure world — we be put an extra £ 6 . 4 billion into defence spending by 2027 — but we have to move quickly in this change world , and that start with investment . today , I can confirm that I will provide an additional £ 2 . 2 billion for the Ministry of Defence in the next financial year — a further down payment on our plan to deliver 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 . this additional investment be about increase not just our national security , but our economic security . as defence spending rise , I want the whole country to feel its benefit , so I will now set out the immediate step that we be take to boost Britain ' s defence industry , and to make the UK a defence industrial superpower . we will spend a minimum of 10 % of the Ministry of Defence ' s equipment budget on new , novel technology , include drone and artificial intelligence - enable technology , drive forward advanced manufacturing production in place like Glasgow , Derby and Newport , create demand for highly skilled engineer and scientist , and deliver new business opportunity for UK tech firm and start - up . we will establish a protect budget of £ 400 million in the Ministry of Defence — a budget that will rise over time — for UK defence innovation , and a clear mandate to bring innovative technology to the frontline at speed . we will reform our break defence procurement system , make it quick , more agile and more streamlined , and give small business across the UK well access to Ministry of Defence contract — something welcome by the Federation of Small Businesses . we will take forward our plan for Barrow , a town at the heart of our nuclear security , work with my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) . we be provide £ 200 million to support the creation of thousand of job there . we will regenerate Portsmouth naval base , secure its future , as call for by my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) . we will secure well home for thousand of military family — the home that they deserve , which be deny to they by the previous Government — in the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) and for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) and in Aldershot . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . finally , we will provide £ 2 billion of increase capacity for UK Export Finance to provide loan for overseas buyer of UK defence good and service . I want to do more with our defence budget , so that we can buy , make and sell thing here in Britain . I want to give our world - lead defence company and those who work in they further opportunity to grow , and to create job in Britain , as military spending rightly increase all across Europe . to oversee all this vital work , my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary and I will establish a new defence growth board to maximise the benefit from every pound of taxpayer ' money that we spend , and we will put defence at the heart of our modern industrial strategy to drive innovation , which can deliver huge benefit for the british economy . that be how we make our country a defence industrial superpower , so that the skill , job and opportunity of the future can be find right here in the United Kingdom . as the previous Government learn to their detriment , there be no shortcuts to economic growth . it will take long - term decision . it will take our putting in the hard yard . it will take time for the effect of the reform that we be introduce to be feel in the everyday economy . it be right that the Office for Budget Responsibility should consider the evidence and look carefully at measure before recognise a growth impact in its forecast , but I can announce to the House that the OBR have consider and have score one of the central plank of our plan for growth . in my first week as Chancellor , I announce that we be pursue the most ambitious set of plan reform in decade to get Britain build again , and in December we publish change to the national planning policy framework , drive forward tirelessly by my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister . we be reintroduce mandatory housing target , and bring grey - belt land into scope . the OBR have today conclude that these reform will permanently increase the level of real gdp by 0 . 2 % in ' 29 - 30 — an additional £ 6 . 8 billion for our economy — and by 0 . 4 % of gdp within 10 year , which be an additional £ 15 . 1 billion in the british economy . that be the big positive growth impact that the OBR have ever reflect in its forecast , for a policy with no fiscal cost . take together with our plan to increase capital spending , which we set out in the Budget last year , this Government ' s policy will increase the level of real gdp by 0 . 6 % in the next 10 year . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . those be policy to grow our economy promise by a Labour Government , deliver by a Labour Government and oppose by the party opposite . the planning system that we inherit be far too slow . the OBR have conclude that our reform will lead to house building reach a 40 - year high , with 305 , 000 home a year by the end of the forecast period . change to the national planning policy framework alone will help build over 1 . 3 million home in the UK over the next five year , take we within touching distance of deliver our manifesto promise to build 1 . 5 million home in England in this Parliament . those be home promise by this Labour Government , home build by this Labour Government and home oppose by the party opposite . the impact on our economy go far still . I say at the election that we could not simply tax and spend our way to prosperity . we need economic growth , so I can today confirm that the effect of our growth policy , include our planning reform , mean an additional £ 3 . 4 billion to support our public finance and our public service by 2029 - 30 . those be the proceed of growth , promise by this Labour Government , deliver by this Labour Government and oppose by the party opposite . early this week , we provide an additional £ 2 billion of investment in social and affordable home next year , deliver up to 18 , 000 new home , and allow local area to bid for new development across our country , include site in Thanet , Sunderland and Swindon . that be more security for family across the country , promise by this Labour Government , deliver by this Labour Government and oppose by the party opposite . to build these new home , we need people with the right skill . early this week , my right hon . friend the Education Secretary announce more than £ 600 million to train up 60 , 000 more construction worker , include through 10 new technical excellence college across every region of the country , give work people the chance to fulfil their potential . those be new opportunity for our young people , promise by this Labour Government , deliver by this Labour Government and oppose by the party opposite . all this be just the start . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill pass its second Reading on Monday . that be no thank to the party opposite . once that Bill complete its passage , it will help deliver the home and infrastructure our country badly need . I say to the party opposite : the british people will be watch . if the party opposite do not support these reform , let we be clear about what that would mean : they be oppose economic growth , they be oppose more home for family and they be oppose good job across our country . we on the Government Benches be clear about whose side we be on ; the party opposite must decide , too . this Labour Government be take the right decision now to secure Britain ' s future . today , I can confirm to the House that the OBR have upgrade its growth forecast next year and every single year thereafter , with gdp growth of 1 . 9 % in 2026 , 1 . 8 % in 2027 , 1 . 7 % in 2028 , and 1 . 8 % in 2029 . by the end of the forecast , our economy will be large compare with the OBR ' s forecast at the time of the Budget . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . this be not just about line on a graph ; it be about improve people ' s life . work people be still feel the pinch after a cost of living crisis cause by the Conservatives that cause interest rate and inflation to go through the roof , so I be pleased that the OBR confirm today that real household disposable income will now grow this year at almost twice the rate expect in the autumn . compare with the forecast in the final Budget deliver by the Conservatives , and after take inflation into account , the OBR say today that household will be on average more than £ 500 a year well off under this Labour Government . that will mean more money in the pocket of work people and high living standard — promise by this Labour Government , deliver by this Labour Government and oppose by the party opposite . the world be change . we can see that , and we can feel it . a change world demand a Government who be on the side of work people , act in their interest , act in the national interest , not retreat from challenge , and not step back . it demand a Government with the courage to step up to secure Britain ' s future and to seize the opportunity that be out there and before we . I be impatient for change . the british people be impatient for change after 14 year of failure , and we be begin to see change happen . our plan for change be work . defence spending be rise . waiting list be fall . wage be up and interest rate be cut . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . today , the OBR confirm that our plan to get Britain building will drive growth in our economy and put more money in people ' s pocket . there be no quick fix , but we have take the right choice : return stability to our economy after year of mismanagement by the party opposite , and deliver security for our country and security for work people . that be what drive this government ; that be what drive I as Chancellor ; and , that be what drive the choice I have set out today . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor . at the last Budget , the right hon . Lady say that she would bring stability to the public finance , but this statement , more appropriately refer to as an emergency Budget , have bring she to a cold — [ interruption . ] order . rightly , I want to hear the Chancellor , and I now want to hear the shadow Chancellor . [ interruption . ] I do not need any help . this emergency Budget have bring the right hon . Lady to a cold hard reckoning . she have become fond recently of talk about the world have change , and indeed it have . this country be grow at the fast rate in the G7 only about a year ago . just as the OECD , the Bank of England and other forecaster — include , we learn today , the OBR — have state , growth have be halve for this year . it have be cut in two as a consequence of the decision and the choice that the right hon . Lady have make on her watch . inflation be down to 2 % — bang on target — under a Conservative Government on the very day of the last general election . we be now tell that this year we will be run at twice the level as be forecast under we in 2024 . that will mean price bear down on household and on business right across the country , because of her choice . the OBR also say that unemployment will be rise this year , next year and the year after . in fact , across the forecast period it will not decline at all . so much for the right hon . Lady ' s back to work plan . we have already see what it mean when it come to control borrowing under this Chancellor . she have come forward now with a plan to squeeze spending later on in the forecast period , and she have of course tell the OBR that these be the element of spending restraint to which she will stick , but what do the market think ? give her track record , and the fact that she have fail to control spending and borrowing to date , what do the right hon . Lady think the market will make of her late promise ? of course , the right hon . Lady say that none of this be her fault . it be the war in Ukraine , it be President Trump ; it be tariff ; it be President Putin ; it be the Conservatives ; it be her legacy ; it be anyone but she . what the british people know , however , be that this be a consequence of her choice . she be the architect of her own misfortune . it be the right hon . Lady who talk down the economy so that business survey and confidence crash through the floor . it be the right hon . Lady who confect the £ 22 billion black hole , a smokescreen that be only ever there to cover up for the fact that she and the Prime Minister renege on their promise to the british people during the last general election , and a black hole that the Office for Budget Responsibility itself — ironically , at the Government ' s behest — have say it will not legitimise . she choose to be reckless with a sliver of headroom against her fiddled target . she borrow and spend and tax as if it be the 1970 . little wonder that the Chancellor have tank the economy , little wonder that we have an emergency Budget , all because of her choice . the Chancellor like to tour the television studio and tell everyone that they should be thankful that she will not be ramp up taxis in this emergency Budget as she do before , but that will be cold comfort to the million up and down the country who be wait in fear and trepidation for the start of the new tax year , buckle under the burden of tax that will rise to the high tax burden — on her watch — in the history of our country . may I ask the right hon . Lady whether , when she reply , she will give that much - need reassurance , particularly to business , that she will not be ramp up taxis still far in the autumn ? even a basic economist know that if you tax something , you get less of it . you do not need to have work at the Bank of England for 10 year to know that . so what do the Chancellor tax ? she tax job and wealth creation . she have destroy livelihood . business have be clobber , big and small — small company , the backbone of our economy — and enterprise have be crush on the altar of her ineptitude . the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development have tell we that a third of the business affect will shed labour , with morrison lose 200 job , Tesco 400 , and Sainsbury ' s 3 , 000 . no wonder the Federation of Small Businesses have say that outside the pandemic , business confidence have be leave at its low level on record . however , it be not just business . it be charity , it be GPs , it be pharmacy , it be those who transport child with special educational need , and it be hospice care for the sick and the dying . in this House , the Labour party have the opportunity , yesterday and last week , to stop that , but they vote our amendment down , and we will never let their constituent forget it . if you ramp up taxis , Mr Speaker , and if you ramp up borrowing and spending without any commensurate improvement in productivity , it lead to grow inflation , and inflation have be increase on this Government ' s watch . it mean that interest rate stay high for long . the Chancellor have just trumpet the fact that there have be three interest rate cut since the Labour party come to office . she know full well that there would have be more than that have she manage — [ interruption . ] she know full well that interest rate be high for long because of the choice that she make . this have lead to servicing cost for our national debt run at twice the defence budget , and today we have learn from the OBR that debt interest be to increase still far — and none of this money will be spend on public service . it will be go down the drain . the real black hole be not the one that the Chancellor invent ; it be the one that the Chancellor create . be not the central problem that this Chancellor be a gambler ? even with her fiddled fiscal target , she leave way too little headroom . be not the truth that while the right hon . Lady say of the last Budget that it be a " once - in - a - parliament reset " , she roll the dice on a wafer - thin margin , and she lose ? reckless , with her finger cross , she fiddle the target and she miss they . [ interruption . ] order . I be not sure about the language be use . I think there be well and more constructive word that the shadow Chancellor would prefer to use in future . may I just point out that all the Chancellor ' s fiscal headroom disappear , not just some of it ? in fact , she go underwater to the tune of £ 4 . 1 billion . reel from one fiscal event to the next be not a way to run the public finance , and break your fiscal rule to the extent that the right hon . Lady have in just six month be a public humiliation . may I now focus briefly on defence spending ? we on this side of the House welcome the fact that the Government will reach 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 , as we press they to do , and we note the step stone along the way that the right hon . Lady have just announce , but we should go far than that . the 3 % target should be bring forward to this Parliament . so may I ask the right hon . Lady : give the geopolitical tension that she have raise , what provision she have make in her headroom , in her fiscal plan , for increase defence spending more quickly in this Parliament , if that prove necessary ? may I also ask she this : would she scrap the absurd Chagos deal , and put that money behind our armed force ? the economy be in a perilous state , but there be a different way . there be different choice on tax and spending and borrowing , and on productivity , and on welfare . let I just say a few word about welfare . it be the privilege of my life to serve as the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , and when it come to welfare reform , with that privilege come a deep responsibility : the responsibility for welfare reform to be properly think through , with a very clear plan — [ interruption ] — I know that Labour member do not like it , because it be an alien idea to their party — so that we could be fair to the taxpayer , but equally fair to the many people up and down the country , some of whom be highly vulnerable . that be an approach , on our watch , that lead to £ 5 million of saving across the forecast period , and 450 , 000 few people go on to long - term sickness and disability benefit as a direct consequence . we would have go far — much far — and we set out a clear plan in our manifesto to do exactly that , but those in the party opposite rush their change . they have no plan . there be not a single mention of the personal independence payment in the Labour party manifesto , and when they get into office , the Labour Government pussyfoot around and dither . why ? because it be deeply divisive within their rank and file . then suddenly , when the Chancellor decide that she have run out of money , out go the word to find some saving in welfare , to scrabble around , to yank every lever possible . then there be the spectacle , frankly , of what the OBR have say about the simply shambolic change that be announce only last week by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . we have go from incompetence to chaos . there have be more change to this policy than there be at the last minute to the right hon . Lady ' s LinkedIn profile . the result be the bad of all world : a wholly inadequate level of saving on welfare , with welfare cost spiral ever higher , and change that be likely to harm many vulnerable people . may I ask the right hon . Lady : when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions come to the House last week with these change , she do not provide an impact assessment , but be this because the OBR have not sign off the number , be it because the Department do not have enough time to produce one , or be it only provide today , as many of we suspect , because this be think to be a good time to bury bad news ? the forecast for growth be down , the forecast for borrowing cost and inflation be up , and business confidence have be smash into a million piece . this Chancellor be constantly try to blame force beyond her control . the right response be not to duck responsibility , but to build a resilient economy . the right hon . Lady would have we believe that that be what she be do , but how can we believe this Chancellor ? how can we trust this Chancellor ? she be the Chancellor who say she would not increase borrowing , but she do . she say she would not change her fiscal rule , but she do . she say she would not put up national insurance , but she do . she say she would not cut the winter fuel payment , but she do . she say she would not tax farmer , but she do , and she say she would not move to more than one fiscal event a year , and she just have . now we be all pay the price of her broken promise . today ' s number confirm it . we be poor and we be weak . to govern be to choose , and this Chancellor have make all the wrong choice . I know that the shadow Chancellor have not be in his role for very long , but at least he be not misquote Shakespeare today . if this be a Budget , it would be the Leader of the Opposition respond . I be glad that she be still in her place , but I know she will want to get back to her office for a lunchtime steak soon . the right hon . Gentleman talk about Budgets . let I remind the conservative party that the only emergency Budget we have see in recent year be in response to their party ' s disastrous mini - Budget — a mini - Budget that crash the economy , send mortgage bill spiral and leave a £ 22 billion black hole in our nation ' s finance . conservative Members may have forget about the damage that they do to our country , but the british people never will . as always , the shadow Chancellor talk a lot , but he do not offer a single alternative . he say he oppose our tax rise , but he can not tell we whether he would cut the NHS to reverse they . he say he want economic growth , but Conservative Members abstain on the very planning reform that the OBR have say will kick - start growth . Mr Speaker , you do not change the country by abstain or by sit on the fence ; you change the country by lead and by take action , and that be what this Government be do . the shadow Chancellor say he want business to trade , but he do not want we to talk to the second large economy in the world or , indeed , our big trading partner in the European Union . he simply be not serious . four month into the job , and he have get no clue . the right hon . Gentleman want to talk about growth , but he do not say anything about the fact that the OBR have upgrade growth next year and every single year after . he talk about pensioner , but he forget that it be his party ' s policy to scrap the triple lock , which we be protect and which will mean the state pension rise next month by over £ 400 . he talk about wage , but he forget the fact that we be boost wage by boost the national living wage from next month . the shadow Chancellor say nothing about living standard or this morning ' s fall in inflation , because the last Parliament be the bad on record , and the OBR have today revise up its forecast for family finance . work people be always well off with Labour . the right hon . Gentleman be learn something , because at least this time he have ask a couple of question , so let I respond to they . he ask what the market should make of this . what the market should see be that , when I have be test with a deterioration in the headroom , we have restore that headroom in full . that be one of the choice that I make . he say that it be a sliver of a headroom . well , it be 50 % more headroom than I inherit from the conservative party . when I be leave with a sliver of headroom , I rebuilt it after the last Government erode it . that be the difference that we have make . while they leave the public finance and the public service in a mess , we wipe the slate clean , which mean that we have the flexibility now to increase defence spending , as the leader of the Labour party have do . the Conservatives have 14 year to increase defence spending , and now they lately come to the party . the shadow Chancellor mention welfare reform and his time at the Department for Work and Pensions . what a legacy : one in eight young people not in education , employment or training , and 1 , 000 people a day go on to personal independence payment . the OBR say today that welfare spending as a share of GDP will now start fall — a far cry from what we have under the conservative party . the shadow Chancellor speak about employment . the OBR say that employment will increase , that wage will increase and that living standard will increase . what a change , after 14 year of the conservative party . the world be change , and no one can be in any doubt about it , but the conservative party be stick in the past — divide , out of touch and carping from the sideline . conservative Members have no plan : no plan to kick - start growth , no plan to fix our public service and no plan to keep our country safe . the only plan for change they be work on be a plan to change their party leader , and we can not blame they for that . if the opposition have no plan , let I remind they about ours . the minimum wage up , real wage up , house building up , NHS investment up , investment in our school up , investment in our road up , defence spending up — and every single one of those policy be oppose by the party opposite . they be oppose by the Conservatives , oppose by Reform , oppose by the SNP , oppose by the Liberal Democrats and oppose by the Greens . it be the anti - growth coalition in action . they be the blocker . we be the builder — secure Britain ' s future , protect work people and deliver change . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . my right hon . Friend inherit a very difficult challenge when she become Chancellor of the Exchequer last July , and she be absolutely right that the book need to balance . this be not other people ' s money we be spend , but taxpayer ' money — our constituent ' hard - earn money — and she be right to be tough as Chancellor . we look forward to quiz she at the Treasury Committee next week , and I be sure she be look forward to it just as much . the Chancellor announce an extra £ 2 billion a year in capital spending , and she talk about extra defence spending . could she give some more detail about where she hope that extra £ 2 billion a year will go ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I do indeed look forward to attend the Treasury Committee next week . I be pleased to serve on the Treasury Committee in the past , and it be a pleasure to give evidence to it . we will set out in the spending review — my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary will set out in the spending review — the allocation of the additional capital money . however , I be able to announce today the £ 2 . 2 billion for defence from next year , as well as the £ 2 billion as a downpayment to build the affordable and social housing that we need . those be two example of the priority of this government to get Britain building and to secure our national security . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the people of this country be cry out for change , but they feel they be just get more of the same . of course , it be the conservative party that wreck the public finance , but we be eight month into the new Government and people be leave wonder , " where be the change that be promise ? " the Chancellor say that the world be change , so why will she not change course with it ? the Chancellor say she want a dash for growth , but with her national insurance job tax she shoot herself in the foot before she even cross the start line . after the Government ' s disastrous Budget , the Government have the chance today to change direction , fix our finance , kick - start growth and deliver a small business Budget . the Government could have scrap the job tax , which will hammer our high street , and instead ask the big bank , social medium giant and online gambling company to pay their fair share instead . the Government could have change their approach to trade , launch talk to boost growth through a new trading deal with our european neighbour . instead , the Government have make the wrong decision to cut public service , hit disabled people and inflict more pain on our small business and high street . in do so , they have deliver no change and almost no growth at all . after year of conservative mismanagement , people can see just how broken our public service be . they can not see a gp , they can not see a dentist , they be fight for an education plan and , they be pick up the piece of a broken social care system . everything be break . nothing work . that be why people be impatient for the change they be promise . we have to bring the welfare bill down and support more people into work . that be right for people and our economy , but cut support for someone who need help get dress and wash in the morning be not just wrong ; it do absolutely nothing to support that person into work . if anything , it do the exact opposite . it will also have knock - on impact for the entitlement of their family carer , too . will the Chancellor come clean about this ? if the Government be serious about cut welfare spending , they must get serious about fix health and social care . will the Chancellor speed up the social care review and ensure that it conclude no later than the end of this year ? in the Chancellor ' s quest to slim down the civil service , I wonder why she have not look at the mountain of red tape create by the previous Government ' s terrible trade deal with Europe . a whopping 2 billion extra piece of paper have have to be complete by business since Brexit , enough to wrap around the world 15 time . if we manage to cut the red tape , we can give british business a tailwind , deliver far more growth than be currently predict , increase the fiscal headroom to deal with global headwind , and free up precious time and money in our civil service . that would be real change . business be promise change too . today ' s statement should have be a small business Budget . we Liberal Democrats have repeatedly raise the alarm about the impending damage of the national insurance job tax , big business rate bill and change to relief for family farm and family business . those change will be a hammer blow to small and family business , leave community face the prospect of an epidemic of board - up shopfront . they will be a hammer blow to community health and care provider who stop our NHS from fall over . this be not the change that be promise . instead , I say again that the Chancellor should look again at much fairer way to raise the tax revenue our public service desperately need by reform capital gain tax more fairly and ask the big bank , the social medium giant and the online gambling company to pay their fair share . I know the Chancellor must contend with President Trump ' s trade war , which be cause global economic turmoil , but our response to Trump ' s bullying can not be to cower in the corner and just hope that he be nice to we . we can not sit on our hand while british steel be hit with Trump ' s tariff . we Liberal Democrats warmly welcome the Chancellor ' s move to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , but instead of cut the aid budget , which abandon the world ' s poor and damage our soft power , she should be cover the cost by raise the digital service tax , hand the tab to Elon Musk and Trump ' s other billionaire backer . at the very least , can the Chancellor categorically rule out any reduction in the tech tax in an attempt to appease the White House , especially when disabled people in Britain face eye - watering cut ? to conclude , I have a series of question . will the Chancellor recognise that cut public service that be already stretch be a false economy ? will she accept that try to bring down the welfare bill without fix health and social care be a road to nowhere ? will she listen to the warning of small and family business that her job tax will do more harm than good ? will she look at the fairer way of raise revenue that we Liberal Democrats have put forward ? and will she take the bold action we need to grow our economy by rebuild our broken trading relationship with Europe ? the public be promise change . where on earth be it ? the hon . Lady say , " where be the change ? " let I tell she : more money into our NHS , with 2 million additional appointment and waiting list fall five month in a row ; roll out breakfast club in primary school from April this year ; increase defence spending to protect we in a more uncertain world ; additional support for carer , the living wage up , the Employment Rights Bill and so much more . that be the difference we have make in nine month , and we have only just get start . the hon . Lady talk about trade . we believe in free trade . we be an open trading economy and we benefit from trade link around the world , include with our single big trading partner , the United States of America . it be right that we work with our ally in the United States to ensure that that free and open trade continue . that be in our national interest and this Government will always act in our national interest . at the same time , there will , as the hon . Lady know , be a summit between the UK and the EU in May , where we will look to re - set our relationship , so we can see more free trade and the well flow of trade , especially for our small business to be able to export around Europe . the hon . Lady talk about welfare . she have not admit that there be a single problem in the welfare system as it exist today . I be not willing , and this party be not willing , to write off one in eight young people who be not in education , employment or training . it be why , for example , we announce this week , with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education , an additional 60 , 000 training place to train people up in the construction industry of the future , and a £ 1 billion package of personalised target support because there be many disabled people — the hon . Lady know this — who be desperate to work but be not get the support and be deny support by the previous Government . that be why we have say there will be additional support for the most sick and disabled , and that personal support for get people back into work . that be the right approach , so that we have protection for those who need it , work for those who can , and a sustainable system that be here for generation into the future . I want to take on the hon . Lady ' s main point . she want all the money for public service , but she do not want to raise the taxis to pay for they . at the moment , we spend £ 105 billion a year in interest on Government debt . it seem that she would just like more of that debt . she say that people can not see a gp or a dentist . how do she and the Opposition party think that we pay for those thing ? they can not object to the tax increase and support the money we have invest in our public service . to say otherwise , I be afraid , be fairytale and the magic money tree — it just do not add up . the difference on the Labour Benches be that we will put money into our public service , explain where it come from , and ensure that the public finance be on a firm footing . that be the difference between our party and the opposition party . young people in my constituency , and indeed across the country , have have an incredibly difficult time grow up : austerity see their further education budget cut by 14 % , then there be a pandemic and now war in Europe . will the Chancellor please set out how her plan to get Britain building again will help my young constituent get the good , non - graduate job they need in Loughborough , Shepshed and the village ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of his constituent in Loughborough . the 1 . 5 million additional home the Government be build will ensure that family in Loughborough have a chance of get on the housing ladder and that young people in Loughborough will have the opportunity to help build those home . that be the difference we be make : more job , pay decent wage , and more home for our family . I hope the Chancellor , next Wednesday in front of the Treasury Committee , will reiterate her commitment not to come back with more tax increase . on page five of the OBR report , paragraph 1 . 2 state : " while the Government ' s planning reform deliver a modest boost to the level of potential output of 0 . 2 per cent in 2029 , its cumulative growth between 2023 and 2029 be still ½ a percentage point low than we project in October , and the level of productivity be over 1 per cent low . " I would like to know what the Chancellor think about that , and can she confirm that the Employment Rights Bill have not be evaluate by the OBR ? the key point in what the right hon . Gentleman say be that cumulative growth be low from 2023 to the end of the forecast . of course , this Government do not come into power in 2023 ; we come into power in July 2024 . the OBR number show that the economy be big because of the change we have make — it be just a difference in the date . I look forward to come to the Treasury Committee next week , and I be sure I will take more question from the right hon . Gentleman then . the Chancellor have rightly champion economic stability , in stark contrast to the previous Government — indeed , in stark contrast to the previous five chancellor . yet , as she have say , the world be become more unstable , and that global instability feed through to rapid change in official projection , which can constrain our room for action . can the Chancellor reaffirm to we that she will keep her focus on fiscal stability , despite these challenge , to meet the long - term mission of this government : to defend our country , improve living standard and protect the most vulnerable in our society ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that her constituent — all our constituent — depend on economic stability . it ensure that they know how much they will pay on their rent and mortgage ; it ensure that they be not catch out , when they go to the shop , by price constantly rise . that be why , as a Government , we have say that the no . 1 thing we need to achieve in order to grow our economy be economic stability , which be why I be so pleased that the Bank of England have be able to cut interest rate three time since the general election and the OBR have forecast that inflation will fall rapidly to 2 . 1 % next year , and then 2 % in the year after that . school face a huge rise in cost imminently due to the rise in national insurance contribution . headteacher have be reassure by the Government that school would be recompense with money to cover these cost , yet Sir Robert Pattinson academy in my constituency — a great school — find itself £ 33 , 000 short . will the Chancellor commit to ensure that Sir Robert Pattinson , and indeed all the school in my constituency , be give enough money to cover her job tax ? public service , include school , have be compensate for the increase in national insurance , but I be happy for the hon . Lady to get in touch with I or the Education Secretary to set out the case of that school . the only reason we have be able to put record investment into our school be because of the stability we have return to the economy , include the tax increase that we have to bring forward last year in order to provide that extra money for our public service , include the school in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . I recognise the difficulty that my right hon . friend be face , with the fiscal challenge and so on that she inherit . I also support the reform that my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary have set out . however , all the evidence point to the fact that the cut to health and disability benefit will lead to increase poverty , include severe poverty , and worsen health condition . how will make people sicker and poor help to drive our economy up and get people into job ? as my hon . friend know , we set out in the Green Paper that we be consult on a premium payment for the most severely sick and disabled , because , as a Government , we believe that those who need support should get it . like my hon . friend , I recognise that there be many people who be sick and disabled . however , there be also many young people who could be work , but be write off by the previous Government , and that be why we be put record investment into help those people to get back into work with guarantee personalised , target support . someone be half as likely to be in poverty if they move from welfare into work . we be determined to lift people out of poverty by ensure that there be good job that pay decent wage and with security guarantee through the Employment Rights Bill . the OBR say that the information it receive on the package of welfare cut be late , contain insufficient detail and that the estimate be highly uncertain , and it will now have to certify they in the next forecast . can the Chancellor confirm whether that mean the Government will have to go far , with even deep cut to welfare than they have so far announce ? the OBR have not take into account any of the package of measure to get people back into work or look at any behavioural effect of people make that switch into work . it say in that document that it will spend the summer look at the entirety of the package , include the effort we be make with a huge package to get people back into work . I be confident that that personalise , targeted support will get more people into work and lift they out of poverty , so that they can support their family and so that the economy can benefit from their contribution . fiscal responsibility under this Government , unlike the previous Administration , ensure that people be pay less and keep the cost of live down . however , as the Labour party , we have an additional social responsibility , so can we look at those DWP change again ? of course we have to protect the most vulnerable , but we be really worried about the people just above that band who be set to lose out . I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I share the deep concern feel by everyone on the Government Benches — in fact , everyone in this Chamber — about the most sick and disabled , who need support . that be why we have set out in the Green Paper that we be consult on an additional premium payment to the most severely disabled . it be also why , instead of write people off and not provide the support that they need to do a job that match their ability and need , we be provide that personalise , target support . I be at a jobcentre last week in Pudsey , in my constituency , where I hear amazing story of work coach help people into work who be far from the labour market . we want to see more of that . we want to lift people out of poverty and help they to achieve their potential . at the general election , the Chancellor promise growth and no increase in taxis , but as Chancellor , she have deliver no growth and a record increase in taxis . now , the Office for Budget Responsibility be halve her growth forecast this year , with cumulatively half a percent less over the forecast period . more worryingly , it be forecast a more than 1 % reduction in productivity growth . why do she think that be ? I have huge respect for the hon . Lady , but that question do not do her justice . as I say to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) early , with the starting point of 2023 , cumulative growth be low . however , the general election do not take place in 2023 — it take place in 2024 . the economy be big at the end of this Parliament than the OBR forecast previously . those be the number and the fact , and that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . I also congratulate the Chancellor on her excellent statement , which address the challenge the previous Government leave she with . in order to drive growth across the UK , new heavy and light rail infrastructure be badly need . what work be the Chancellor do to develop new model of funding to deliver those important project ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . one of the reason we have put an additional £ 13 billion into capital spending over the forecast period be to invest in the infrastructure that our country need , include transport infrastructure , which I know my hon . friend , as Chair of the Transport Committee , have a keen interest in . she be absolutely right : we do need to look more at how we can leverage in private sector funding for a whole range of project , include the low Thames crossing . I declare an interest as an alumnus of London Business School . the Chancellor will recall that in November , when she come to the Treasury Committee , I ask she to look at a London Business School paper on use specific public r & D on defence spending to boost economic growth . I be delighted to hear that the Treasury do evaluate that paper by Professor Paolo Surico as part of the spring statement , and have listen to I and the Liberal Democrats . do the Chancellor agree that use defence spending focus on public r & D be one way to not only keep we safe , but raise productivity and boost economic growth ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and look forward to take more question from he at the Treasury Committee next week . when I visit defence company or meet our armed force , they tell I about the amazing ability of new technology and innovation to help they to well do their job and keep our country safe . as we invest more in defence and get to 2 . 5 % of gdp , it be absolutely right , as I have set out today , that more of that money be use for innovation , R & D and new technology . I congratulate my right hon . friend on grasp the challenge and opportunity that this new world present we with . those opportunity will mean that , in my constituency of Glasgow South West , there will be more investment in the defence sector , which be timely , because after 18 year of SNP Government , one in six people in my constituency be economically inactive . do she agree that this investment will finally raise their ambition and their pay packet ? unlike the SNP , Labour support investment and job in the defence sector in Scotland , which , in turn , support people in Glasgow South West and across Scotland . there will be more good job for young people — more job pay decent wage — that will keep our country safe . that be what this party believe in . it be a shame that the SNP believe in something entirely different . a cloud hang over the economy in northern Lincolnshire at the moment with potentially significant job loss at the Scunthorpe steelwork . in view of that , can the Chancellor assure we that funding will be available not only to look after any redundant worker , but to attract new business and provide retrain for exist worker ? at the general election , we set out our plan for a steel fund as part of the National Wealth Fund . I understand the concern of hon . member across the House about the future of the steel industry in this country . we be able to improve the deal for Tata , to protect more job in south Wales . we want a thriving steel sector right across the UK , and we will continue to work with the company and the trade union to achieve just that . make cut instead of tax wealth be a political choice , and take away the personal independence payment from so many disabled people be an especially cruel choice . a disabled person who can not cut up their own food without assistance , can not go to the toilet without assistance and can not wash themselves without assistance will lose their personal independence payment . have not the Government take the easy option of cut support for disabled people rather than the braver option , which would be to tax the wealthy through a wealth tax ? there be nothing progressive , nothing Labour , about not support people who be disabled or sick or who be young to do job that be commensurate with what they be able to do . one in eight young people have be effectively write off by the Conservative party , and we be not willing to leave they in that position . we be consult in the Green Paper on an additional premium to pay to the most sick and disabled people , because we recognise that they need support from the state , but too many people be not give the opportunity to fulfil their potential , and we be not willing to carry on like that . in the Budget last year , we get rid of the non - dom tax status , increase capital gain tax , introduce vat on private school and change the rule on inheritance tax , so I do not recognise what my hon . Friend say . the Chancellor tell we that the world have change . if that be true and it allow she to stick the boot into disabled people , it must also be true to allow she to review her income tax rate , perhaps make they commensurate with those in Scotland , which see the scottish economy grow in January by 0 . 3 % , while the UK economy contract by 0 . 1 % . she could also choose to revise the Government ' s position on re - access the European Union single market , which would allow a £ 30 billion recur return with no compensation require . she could impose a 1 % tax on asset over £ 10 million — a wealth tax , as the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) have just highlight — which would allow a £ 40 billion recur return every year with no need for compensation . if she have the disabled , the WASPI woman , pensioner and hospice in her cross hair , why can she not tap up multi - millionaire for a few quid ? the world have change , and we can see that all around we , which be why our defence be more important than other thing . that be why it be so astonishing that the SNP continue to oppose the nuclear deterrent . I commend the Chancellor for her statement . do she agree that the conservative party do not understand the link between its total failure to build house and infrastructure , which our constituent desperately want , and the economic constraint that we face today ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of her constituent in Birmingham . we need to build the home that all our constituent be cry out for . the level of home ownership decline under the previous Government and we be determined to turn that around , as well as to build the affordable and social house that our country need . as we build those home , there will be more good job for young people who take pride in their work . those good job , which will pay decent wage , will be back by the increase in the national living wage and by our Employment Rights Bill . the Transport Secretary fail to stand up to the transport union , the Health and Social Care Secretary fail to stand up to the health union , and the Work and Pensions Secretary fail to stand up to the Back Benchers of her own party . the Chancellor ' s saving be predicate on get rid of a whole tranche of civil servant . how can we have any confidence that she or the Prime Minister will stand up to the civil service union ? today , as part of the transformation fund , we have set aside £ 150 million next year for redundancy cost for a voluntary exit settlement , which show how serious we be about reduce the size of the civil service , after it increase to record level under the conservative party . community such as mine in Barrow and Furness feel very acutely the failure of the previous Government , as they leave we in a dreadful state . do the Chancellor agree that it be through this Government ' s commitment to , and funding in , Barrow and Furness and our defence sector that we can transform thing on the ground , which will mean that Barrow can be a blueprint for how the defence pound can be well spend across our constituency ? I know that my hon . friend be incredibly proud to represent Barrow and Furness and that her constituent be incredibly proud to work on our nuclear deterrent . this government will always stand with they , put in place our new plan for Barrow for new job and new investment in the town , so that we get value for money for taxpayer and , critically , ensure our country ' s national security . the Chancellor be right to highlight productivity as an issue , and right , too , to focus on skill shortage , although she do not explicitly note the implicit link between they . she fail , however , to say that her productivity ambition have be scale back and that the number of young people not in education , employment or training be grow . will she set out — perhaps in a note in the Library of the House or in a statement — by how much she expect apprenticeship to grow year on year ? when I be a Minister , we reach the high level in modern time , and the number be much low now . we need to grow apprenticeship to build our skill and to grow productivity . if she do not do that , we will feel that hope exceed expectation . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . he speak powerfully about something that he know a huge amount about . let I answer three part of that question . first , the OBR have revise up our productivity in its forecast . secondly , we have a massive problem with young people not in education , employment or training — it involve one in eight young people . however , as I say in answer to a previous question , the OBR have not take into account the impact of our back to work programme . it will work on that over the summer with the DWP and the Treasury , because we want to make sure that we design that in a way that get as many young people back into work , contribute to the economy and contribute to our society . we be able to announce , just a couple of week ago in National Apprenticeship Week , an expansion of the apprenticeship programme , particularly through foundation apprenticeship and by relax some of the math and english requirement . if we want to build the home that our country need , we need to get people into construction job and not say , " I ' m sorry , you didn ' t get a grade c in math and English , so you ' re not welcome on the construction site . " that make no sense at all , which be why we be reform how apprenticeship work , to get more people with the skill they need so that they can contribute to their family and the economy . we want those number go up . our fiscal rule be design to ensure that we do not repeat the damaging austerity of the conservative party , which harm my constituent so much . do my right hon . friend agree that it be only because of those fiscal rule that the OBR have today confirm that people in Paisley and Renfrewshire South will be , on average , £ 500 a year well off with this Labour Government ? to ensure that people be well off , we need to control inflation , which be why stability be so important ; bring interest rate down , and the Bank of England have have the confidence to cut interest rate three time since the election ; and boost wage , which we be begin to see , with real wage grow at twice the rate of inflation . that benefit my hon . friend ' s constituent and people up and down the country . that be why we welcome the fact that , today , the OBR have revise up real household disposable income per person by £ 500 . today and last week the Chancellor rush through severe cut to the benefit system that will hit some of the most vulnerable in our society . although we should have consider benefit reform , this be ill conceive . can the Chancellor explain to the Chamber why she be choose to balance the book of the nation on the back of some of the most vulnerable in our society ? I have huge respect for the hon . Gentleman , but everybody in this House and across the country can see that the welfare system be just not work . one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training and 1 , 000 people be go on to personal independence payment every single day , and we can not carry on like that . the basic principle of this Government be that people who need support should be protect ; that those who can work should work and will be support with personalised , targeted support ; and that we need a system that be sustainable . that be what the reform set out by my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary last week deliver . alongside that , there will be further consultation on the Green Paper to make sure that those with the most severe need get the additional support that they be rightly entitle to . rise — order . we have another 45 minute on the statement . if question be short , more member will get in . it be absolutely right that the opposition devastate our community and leave we with billion of pound ' worth of debt , but it be not right that disabled people and the most vulnerable in our society should pay for it . thousand of my constituent continue to be fearful about the announce welfare cut , and disability organisation have warn that hundred of thousand of people will be push into poverty . so I say to the Chancellor : we must make the right political choice . we must protect the most vulnerable in society and introduce a wealth tax so that multimillionaire and billionaire can pay their fair share . my hon . friend represent the constituency that neighbour mine . he know as I do that there be far too many people in both our constituency in Leeds and Bradford who be write off . there be people who be not work who be quite capable of work if they be give support . People may be disabled , but it do not mean that they can not work and contribute if they be give the proper support . that be what the conservative party fail to do , and that be what our Government be determined to deliver . we will work with disabled group and jobcentre , include the one in Pudsey , where I be last week , to make sure that we support people to fulfil their potential and do not just write they off like the Conservatives do . I welcome the Chancellor ' s emphasis on defence expenditure and her support for the nuclear deterrent , but do she agree that , by his action in Ukraine , Putin have restart the cold war ? will she bear in mind that during the 1980 , up to the end of the cold war , we be regularly spend between 4 . 5 % and 5 % of gdp on defence ? that be the sort of scale that be require . the right hon . Gentleman have long be an advocate of spend properly on defence . we have set out a fully fund and cost plan to get to 2 . 5 % of gdp in the next two year and to 3 % in the next Parliament . the world have change . we can see that all around we . this government will always put our national security and defence first , and as the situation evolve , of course so will we . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . she be absolutely right to highlight the stimulus that the Employment Rights Bill will bring to our economy , but I respectfully say that the impact of the cut to welfare payment will be reduce income for some of my poor constituent . that contrast with the easy ride that the very wealthy get from low margin of tax on their asset and gain than my constituent face through income tax . the world indeed have change since the Chancellor set her fiscal rule , so will she consider put capital gain tax on an equal footing with income tax or implement a wealth tax of 2 % on asset worth over £ 10 million in order to improve the country ' s finance ? at the Budget last autumn , we increase taxis by £ 40 billion without ask work people to pay more . we do that by abolish the non - dom tax status , increase the rate of capital gain tax , tighten the rule around inheritance tax and , yes , by ask business to pay more as well . we have already raise taxis to put more money into our health service , reduce NHS waiting list and provide free breakfast club at primary school . today ' s spring statement show that we can grow the size of our economy through planning reform and therefore ensure more money for our public service . the Government ' s no . 1 priority be growth , so I be so pleased that the OBR have say that by the end of this Parliament the economy will be big than that we inherit it from the Conservatives . the Chancellor have claim today that she be build foundation for the economy , but sadly those foundation be build on sand — increase borrowing , high inflation , low growth , job taxis and so on . how will such structure stand against the economic force that will be affect the United Kingdom , as she have describe today ? specifically , what proportion of the transformation fund will be available to the Northern Ireland Executive for the important transformation of public service in Northern Ireland ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . the OBR be clear that the economy at the end of this Parliament will be big than it previously envisage — big than the plan we inherit from the previous Government — and the average person with real household disposable income will see their income rise by £ 500 . we be already begin to deliver the change that we promise . at the Budget last year I be able to announce the big ever settlement for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . that continue to be the case after today ' s spring statement . reckless management of public finance lead to high cost of government borrowing . as any economist will say , that increase the cost of capital across the british economy , put at risk and increase the cost of the essential investment in housing and infrastructure that my constituent desperately need . do my right hon . friend agree that that be a very important reason why it be essential to manage public finance carefully , unlike the last Conservative Government , and unlike the Government in Scotland , who be overfamiliar with emergency Budgets ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of robust fiscal rule which , even in difficult economic circumstance , we will continue to meet through the decision that I have set out today . the reason that economic stability be so important can be see in what happen in the last Parliament , where a government borrow beyond their mean . the people who lose out be not the wealthy but ordinary work people , who pay more in the shop and more on their mortgage and rent . this government will never repeat the mistake of Liz Truss and the Conservatives . the Chancellor have create a storm and be now complain about the rain . she increase spending to £ 70 billion , she increase borrowing by £ 30 billion , and she increase tax by £ 40 billion , yet the economy shrink in January . she talk about change and the abolition of NHS England . in a write question I ask the Department how much that would cost , and it say that there would be some up - front cost but could not specify what they would be . could she tell I the estimate cost of this top - down change to abolish NHS England ? it be really difficult to understand what the Conservative party want . do they want to reduce the cost of admin and bureaucracy , or do they want to carry on with everything the way it be ? we want to change thing . that be why the transformation fund that I set out today include £ 150 million for a voluntary exit scheme . we want more money on the frontline , not in the back office in a bloated bureaucracy that be leave by the Conservatives . there be so much to welcome in today ' s statement , but the Chancellor will be aware of serious concern regard welfare reform . a constituent tell I last week : " I ' m terrify of what will happen to I if I can ' t work . I ' m already have thought of suicide at the prospect of these change and what they will mean for disabled people . " today ' s impact assessment show a 250 , 000 increase in the number of people live in relative poverty and a 50 , 000 increase in child live in relative poverty . what will the Chancellor do to stop this from happen ? my hon . friend speak about a constituent who be in work . I be sure that she and other will welcome the work that Charlie Mayfield have do on ensure that people with sickness and disability can stay in work . we know that the good place for people be in work — for both their physical and mental health — and that too often when people drop out of the labour market they really struggle to get back into it . alongside the targeted support to get people back into work , we be determined to work with business and ensure that more people with sickness and disability can stay in work , contribute to their family finance and to the wide economy . do the Chancellor agree that GDP as a measure of growth and relative wealth be not the most relevant number to our constituent ? as we be live in an age of mass immigration and a rise population , surely , what matter to our constituent be GDP per capita , which have fall consistently for the past two year and be fall still . should we not tell people that , actually , they be get poor ? the OBR forecast that GDP per capita will increase by 5 . 6 % during this Parliament , have fall under the previous Government . if the hon . Gentleman ever get to Clacton , he can tell his constituent that . I welcome the Chancellor ' s £ 3 billion investment into a transformation fund to sort out how government be run . do the Chancellor agree that the Tories duck that reform — they should have do it but do not — and their failure to address it put pressure on frontline service and stretch the public finance ? the transformation fund , worth £ 3 . 25 billion , be about try to reduce far the cost of failure . we be put more money into recruit foster carer , because we want to ensure that more child get the good possible start in life . we also know that child end up in poor - quality child ' s home have consequence not just at the start of their life but later on . we be also put more money into technology in the Probation Service so that probation work well to rehabilitate offender and ensure that people pay for the crime that they commit . the Chancellor rightly remind the House that the british public be watch . among they be ten of thousand of the most vulnerable pensioner in our society . will she please explain what be labour about remove the winter fuel payment from those on £ 13 , 500 a year ? as a result of the triple lock , which we have be able to protect , next month the basic state pension will increase by more than £ 400 . by the end of this Parliament , the triple lock , which the shadow Chancellor oppose , will cost an additional £ 31 billion . that be the protection that we be give to pensioner , as well as record investment in our NHS , which old people use with great frequency than anyone else . the UK be the 6th rich country in the world , yet more than one in three child and 25 % of adult live in poverty . since Labour come into power , 25 , 000 more child have be push into poverty due to the two - child benefit cap . now , accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , more than 250 , 000 people will be push into poverty as a result of these cut , include 50 , 000 child . I ask the Chancellor , who earn over £ 150 , 000 annually , who have accept £ 7 , 500 - worth of free clothing and who recently take freebie ticket to see Sabrina Carpenter , do she think that austerity 2 . 0 be the change that people really vote for ? there be nothing progressive and nothing labour about pour more money into a broken system . the change that we be make will help young people who be not in education , employment or training , through target support . as I set out , the OBR have not score any of our back to work programme — the big programme for many year — and it will do so in the autumn . the good way to lift people out of poverty be to get they into good , secure work that pay a decent wage . from next month we be increase the national living wage by £ 1 , 400 for someone work full time . the Employment Rights Bill will ensure that people have security at work . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . the Chancellor know that our economy have be drive to the edge over the past 15 year , with ordinary people force to bear the burden while a small minority have amass extreme wealth . she could change that . her own Back Benchers be line up to argue for a wealth tax . why will she not do the fair and right thing and introduce a tax on the very wealthy , rather than launch austerity 2 . 0 and remove vital support from disabled and ill people ? the good thing that we can do for our constituent be build the home that they desperately need . I have no understanding of why Green party member vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill this week . what do they have against family get home and young people get job ? today ' s defence announcement by my right hon . friend the Chancellor be fantastic news for my city . it deliver security for work people across the country and cement Portsmouth ' s reputation as not just the historic home but the future home of the Royal Navy . after 14 year in which the conservative party decimate all area of our armed service , impose three Portsmouth Ministers on my city and axe shipbuilding , it have fall to this Government to once again fix the mess inherit from you — the people over there . sorry , I almost say " you lot " . do she agree that the announcement will secure the future of the naval base and those serve our country ? my hon . friend be a proud advocate for her city , and this Government be a proud advocate for the people of Portsmouth . that be why we have put investment in the Portsmouth naval base in today ' s statement . as we grow our defence spending to keep our country safe and secure , we want to ensure more good job that pay decent wage , to make Britain a defence industrial superpower , and to support those who serve on the frontline . today , the Chancellor could have take action to reverse the damage that she have do to people and business in my constituency and beyond , but she fail ; she choose not to . what do she say to all the pensioner , farmer , business , charity , hospice and hard - work people who face her huge tax rise ? when I become Chancellor , I inherit from the Conservative party a £ 22 billion black hole , which we have take action to address . I would say to the right hon . Lady ' s constituent that they will now see a doctor or nurse more quickly than under the last government , because NHS waiting list have fall for five month in a row . do my right hon . friend agree that the main contrast between this Government and the last one be strength versus weakness ? they be too weak to crack down on wasteful spending , to address the tax break and loophole for the wealthy , and to take on the blocker in the planning system . do she far agree that while the Conservatives — the party of vested interest — seek to conserve what have fail , this Labour Government have the strength to take the tough , long - term decision to build a well and much fair Britain ? today , the OBR have score some of our planning measure , which will make the economy £ 6 . 8 billion big by the end of the Parliament , contribute £ 3 . 4 billion to our public finance and service . that be possible only because we be take on the vested interest , and be get Britain build by back the builder , not the blocker . we be the Government increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the Tories have 14 year to do that , but they fail . this Labour Government have do that in our first year . heartbreakingly , last week St Wilfrid ' s Hospice in Eastbourne announce many redundancy , cite the national insurance increase as a reason . I have just receive a message from Mrs Robinson at Motcombe school , which face increase cost due to a catering supplier pass on the cost of the NIC hike . if the Chancellor will not increase the digital service tax to fund a reversal of that hike , how will these organisation be support to keep do their great work ? at the Budget , we set out tax increase on the wealthy and on business to properly fund our public service . constituent in Eastbourne will get to see a doctor or nurse a little more quickly , and will benefit from the breakfast club that we be roll out because we have the money to . hon . member can not back increase investment in our public service , include the settlement for hospice , if they oppose raise the money to pay for it . I understand that this Government inherit from the conservative party a huge financial mess , cause by over a decade of austerity . however , what be the justification for cut disability benefit — a third of disabled people be already in poverty — instead of tax the grow wealth of the super - rich ? a 2 % tax on asset over £ 10 million could raise £ 24 billion a year . at the Budget , we set out £ 40 billion - worth of tax increase ; we get rid of the non - dom tax status , increase capital gain tax , put vat on private school and tighten the rule around inheritance tax . we make those decision so that we could invest more in our public service , include in our school and our hospital . indeed , we have now commit to lift defence spending within the next two year to 2 . 5 % of gdp . on welfare spending , there be nothing progressive about write off a generation of young people , so our target , personalised support will help people get back into work , lift they out of poverty , and help they to contribute both to their family finance and to our nation ' s finance . the right hon . Lady talk of financial responsibility , but will she please tell we when Government bond yield hit their high level since the global financial crisis , and who be the Chancellor of the Exchequer then ? if she need a clue , we can bring she a mirror . if we look at financial market and follow they closely , we can see that the increase in bond yield in the UK , France and Germany have closely track each other . global financial instability have affect country around the world , and that be why it be so important that we continue to meet our fiscal rule , as I have set out today . a moment ago , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) mention GDP per capita ; I see that he ask his question and run away . the truth be that GDP per capita increase by only 4 . 3 % in the past 16 year , compare with 46 % in the year prior . what matter to my constituent in the leave - behind town and village of Bishop Auckland be not just growth , but growth that they can feel , and which have an impact for their pocket . what will the Chancellor do to ensure that work people feel the growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the Government want people in Bishop Auckland and constituent in all part of our country to feel the benefit of growth through good job pay decent wage . that be why we be increase the national living wage ; make work pay ; and back the builder — not the blocker — who be create new job , new home for family , new transport infrastructure and new energy infrastructure . the OBR have say today that , compare with the plan we inherit , real household disposable income per person be set to rise by £ 500 by the end of this Parliament . that show the difference that the Government be make . Wales have a high percentage of disabled people and a large public sector workforce than the UK , so we will be hit hard by these cruel cut . all that damage for self - impose fiscal rule . there have be five major change to fiscal rule since 1997 . will the Chancellor change the fiscal rule now , so that she do not impose further austerity ? last year in the Budget , we provide the big ever settlement for the Welsh Government , yet Plaid vote against that . I do not understand why the hon . member do not want money to go to Wales and to her constituent . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement , and in particular her recognition of the excellent work of Labour - run Thanet district council , which be build more social home with local firm and employ local people , include local apprentice . the Government ' s recent planning change mean not only council home for local people , but growth . will she confirm that the Office for Budget Responsibility have score only the effect of the national planning policy framework change , and not the effect of the upcoming Planning and Infrastructure Bill ? I be pleased to note in my statement that Thanet have already come forward with plan to build affordable housing under the affordable housing plan , for which I set out more money . opposition party that abstain or vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be vote against home for our constituent and job for our young people . on the Government side of the House , we back the builder , not the blocker . we back opportunity for young people and housing for our constituent . it be a shame that those party do not do the same . the Chancellor claim that growth be her top priority , yet she have take the fast - grow economy in the G7 and bring it to a shudder halt . she promise that there would be no tax rise , but next week ' s job tax will put tax rise on ordinary work people . today , she have cut the housing number by 200 , 000 and put up borrowing by £ 18 billion in the next two year . be it not time that the Prime Minister invite the Chancellor next door and say , " Rachel , you ' re fire " ? the plan that we inherit from the previous Government see the OECD forecast that the UK would have the slow growth in the G7 this year . it be now forecast we to have the second - high growth . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make , move we up the league table . I thank the Chancellor and her team for the prudent work that they be do to restore stability to our economy . figure show that wage be already increase in my constituency under this Labour Government , and inflation be fall . do my right hon . friend agree that that , alongside the new living wage , worth £ 1 , 400 a year , will make work pay and start to lift more people out of poverty ? I be pleased to be able to announce in the Budget last year a 6 . 7 % increase in the national living wage , as well as a record increase in the youth rate of the minimum wage . that will help lift work people — work family — out of poverty . that come alongside our Employment Rights Bill , which will ensure great security for those who go out to work . growth be not the word on the lip of farmer , whose confidence in the Government be at a low ebb follow the family farm tax , the abrupt closure of the sustainable farming incentive , and now possible departmental cut , which could reduce the farming budget far . Charlie from Upton Bridge farm in Long Sutton tell I that he be contemplate leave his ground fallow due to the risk of a fail crop put his farm far into debt . will the Chancellor assure farmer in Glastonbury and Somerton , and across the country , that follow the spending review , the Government be still commit to champion british farming while protect the environment ? at the Budget , we put record investment into our farming sector , after be leave plan by the previous Government that do not even involve their use all their farming budget . we be determined to give farmer the support that they need . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . I represent Barking , which she will know have some of the high deprivation figure in the country , and where 20 % of working adult have no qualification whatsoever . do she agree that it be only by our create job and those people get the qualification that they need that those people can ever improve their life chance ? my hon . friend speak passionately about expand opportunity for her constituent in Barking . the change to the apprenticeship levy and the growth and skill levy be about ensure that more people , include her constituent , can access apprenticeship course and foundation course . just this weekend , we be able to announce an additional 60 , 000 place on construction course to help people get job that pay a decent wage and offer security . that be what the Government be all about . give that the Chancellor choose not to mention Chagos in her statement , and that she choose not to answer the shadow Chancellor ' s question on Chagos , can the House assume that this disastrous deal will not be go ahead , and that , more importantly , the UK taxpayer will not be foot the bill ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , our Prime Minister and President Trump discuss these issue when our Prime Minister be at the White House recently . we continue to work on those plan . the most important thing be that we protect our national security and can continue to operate out of that important base . paragraph 1 . 14 of the OBR report outline that the plan cut to disability benefit will reduce personal independence payment for 800 , 000 claimant , and cut health - relate universal credit for 3 million family . be it not time that we ask those with the broad shoulder to carry the heavy burden , rather than the poor in our society ? as I have set out , the Office for Budget Responsibility do not assume in its number any change in people go back to work . that be what we be go to work on , between the OBR , the DWP and the Treasury , over the summer , so that we develop those plan to ensure that people be not bad off but well off because they can progress into job that suit their ability and need . we want more people to have the fulfilment of a good job , with security , that pay a decent wage . in a statement with significant problem , I welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment to well military home , which the Liberal Democrats have be call for . will she clarify how much and by when , and will that commitment include RAF Odiham in my constituency — or be it just for the constituency that she list , which happen to have Labour mp ? we support military family wherever they be base in the United Kingdom . we will set out more detail in the spending review in June . in the past few month , we have already take back into the public sector home that be previously contract out to the private sector so that we can make improvement to military accommodation , which I know will be welcome in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and by military family across our country . my West Brom constituent work hard and pay their taxis , and they want to know that the Government treat that money with respect . I be glad that we finally have a Chancellor who be be careful with every pound of taxpayer ' money so that we can invest in the NHS , which have see a 10 % cut to the waiting list in my area . how be she draw a line under the waste and chaos of the previous Government and finally put our public finance back on a stable footing ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of her constituent , ensure that the people of West Bromwich get a good deal from their public service and value for money when they pay their taxis . there be too much waste under the previous Government . that be exemplify during the pandemic , when so many contract go to friend and donor . we have appoint a covid corruption commissioner because we want that money back in our public service , not in the hand of Tory friend and donor . there be 4 . 3 million child live in poverty in our society , and 1 . 2 million people in receipt of PIP be about to lose it follow the statement last week . the Chancellor have put a huge amount of money into defence . could she not think for a moment of reverse the decision last week to take £ 5 billion out of the welfare budget , and of end the two - child benefit cap , which have drive so many child and family into really desperate poverty ? I will not make any apology for put more money in defence . this Labour Government take the defence of our country seriously , and so we should . we be the party that create NATO , and the leadership of the Labour party today will always defend our country . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her statement and on her action to end austerity by invest £ 26 billion in the NHS and £ 3 billion in education , raise defence budget , and unleash over £ 100 billion of additional capital investment to build the foundation of our economy . on the day after this Government vote through a pay rise for 3 million work people by raise the minimum wage , do she agree that it be only by make the tough decision to restore stability and push ahead with our bold plan for reform that the Government can repair the terrible damage do by the Conservative party , deliver strong public service and get more money in people ' s pocket ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for all his work to back growth and improve living standard for work people . I be pleased to announce in the spring statement £ 13 billion extra for capital spending during the course of this Parliament . we know that the previous Government always make the easy choice to cut capital spending , and the deterioration of infrastructure be why we be in the mess that we be today . we will not make those short - term decision ; we will invest to grow our economy , work with business to do so . the Chancellor ' s trouble be that although her manifesto promise to limit spending increase to £ 9 . 5 billion a year , her Budget increase spending by £ 76 billion a year — eight time as much . she have previously say that she will not come back ask for more tax rise or more borrowing . will she rule out both in the Budget later this year ? the Budget in autumn last year wipe the slate clean after 14 year of economic mismanagement by the conservative party . we will not have to repeat a Budget like that because we be not go to inherit anything like that ever again . we have change the rule so that the OBR always get information now , rather than the information be hide as it be by the previous Government . my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) give example of alternative taxis to labour ' s national insurance increase , ask that big bank , social medium giant and online gambling company pay their fair share of tax . can the Chancellor confirm that she have hear those Liberal Democrat alternative , and will she explain why she be not listen to those fair and sensible proposal ? one thing that be score in the OBR document today be the gambling levy that the Government have introduce . that money will be use to ensure that we regulate gambling properly in our country , and rightly so . for defence company in Scotland , UK Export Finance play a crucial role in finance sale to our ally around the world , include Ukraine . will the Chancellor outline how the increase in capacity for UK Export Finance will help defence company in Scotland to create job in my Livingston constituency and strengthen our national defence ? just two week ago , I be able to announce £ 2 billion extra for UK Export Finance specifically to help defence company in the UK to export . as country around the world , particularly in Europe , increase defence spending , I want to ensure that we get those contract here in Britain to support our proud defence industry , include in place such as Livingston and Rosyth , where I meet Babcock just a couple of week ago . the Chancellor ' s statement refer to people who be listen . the president of the Ulster Farmers Union be in the Public Gallery to hear her statement , which do not reference agriculture or farming at all . it talk about the country ' s security and safety , but there be nothing on food safety . it speak of not write off a generation of young people , but her family farm tax will write off a generation of young farmer . what confidence can she give our agricultural sector ? with specific reference to agricultural property relief , people will not pay extra tax unless they have a farm worth around £ 3 million . More than two third of farm be not affect at all by the change in that relief . for those who do pay the tax , it be at half the rate that anybody else pay , and they can pay it , interest - free , over a period of 10 year . that be very different from the inheritance tax bill that anybody else pay . I welcome the Chancellor ' s reference to the £ 13 billion of additional capital expenditure announce today . will she put today ' s statement into the context of the significant investment that have already be make and those that be forthcoming , and contrast that with the previous Government , who do not have a plan for long - term growth and abandon community like mine ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of his constituent in Gateshead , who rely on the infrastructure that our country need , be it energy , digital or transport infrastructure , or the house that all our constituent need . in the Budget last year I put £ 100 billion extra into capital spending during the course of this Parliament , and I have be able to announce an additional £ 13 billion today . unlike the conservative party , I be not willing to cut capital investment , because it be absolutely crucial to grow the economy and leverage the private sector investment that we need . the Chancellor have make much of the Government ' s investment in defence and desire to make the country a defence industrial superpower . I be keen to pitch for a slice of the protect £ 400 million for UK defence innovation . Huntingdon be the home of our defence intelligence capability , the US air force ' s joint intelligence operation centre Europe , and the NATO Intelligence Fusion Centre . there be huge investment in site such as the Alconbury Weald enterprise campus and Brampton Cross , and the potential redevelopment of Ministry of Defence land around RAF Wyton . it be the perfect location for defence start - up , and with the arrival of several already in flight , the US Government be invest north of £ 500 million in Huntingdon alone . will she make a similar commitment to Huntingdon and include it in her list of defence site ? what a great pitch ! I be sure that one of the Ministers from the Ministry of Defence will be pleased to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss those opportunity . as we move to 2 . 5 % of GDP spend on defence and 3 % in the next Parliament , I be determined that that money benefit our troop in the UK but also support we become a defence industrial superpower . I be sure that we can work with the hon . gentleman to realise those ambition for Huntingdon . the Conservatives leave a £ 22 billion hole in our public finance and they continue to oppose every decision make by the Chancellor to clean up their mess . can the Chancellor tell we how thing would look now if the Conservatives have their way ? what it would mean for people in Kettering and around the country if we have continue under the plan of the previous Government be that interest rate would have remain high , inflation would have remain high and growth would continue to flatline , whereas the OBR today have forecast that real household disposable income will rise , growth will be high and living standard will be high because we have return stability to the economy and we be back the builder , not the blocker . [ interruption . ] I do not wish to interrupt the discussion on the front Benches . I have another opportunity for the Chancellor . in Cheltenham , we have a scheme that can produce job and growth and will support the defence industry : the Golden Valley development next to GCHQ , which will be a key part of this country ' s defence investment over the come year . will the Chancellor take it upon herself to work with Ministers in other department who already know about that to ensure that we get the investment that we deserve and that GCHQ worker deserve too ? I be proud of what GCHQ do to keep our country safe . part of what we be do around the defence budget , above the lift to 2 . 5 % , be include some of the work of the Security Service that , increasingly , be crucial for our national security and defence . that be on top of the 2 . 5 % . as we protect defence spending , it be right that we take into account GCHQ and other security agency as well . I be very happy to work with the hon . gentleman to ensure that we maximise the benefit for so many constituency , include Cheltenham . may I thank the Chancellor for her statement and welcome the increase in defence spending , which represent a huge opportunity for scottish worker ? I be delighted to have her visit Rosyth in my constituency recently . will she work to ensure a continuous shipbuilding programme in this country to maximise the opportunity for scottish worker ? do she agree that it be utterly shameful that those worker have be ignore by the SNP for the past 18 year ? also , will she confirm that this Labour Government will always value the role of shipbuilding for our economy and our national defence ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . it be just a shame that there be no SNP member in the Chamber — although there be so few of they — to hear what he say . perhaps my hon . friend would write to the SNP and ask they why they refuse to back the defence sector in the United Kingdom and specifically in Scotland . it be estimate that in under five year there will be more than 3 million family in receipt of disability benefit who will lose financially as a result of today ' s announcement , with an average loss of £ 1 , 720 per year compare to inflation . be the Chancellor comfortable know that she have bring despair and horror to disabled people and their family across the country ? we have a very basic principle that people who deserve to be protect should be , that those who can work should and that we need a system that be sustainable . we do not have any of those three thing today . that be why we be reform our welfare system to give additional support for those with the high need , to give personalise , target and guarantee support to help people back into work and to ensure that we have a system that be sustainable so that it be there for generation to come . as the Chancellor will know , the east midland be often at the bottom of investment league table and we suffer through a lack of transport planning . will the Chancellor outline how the extra public investment and the national wealth fund will change that and deliver for people in North East Derbyshire ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . People in North East Derbyshire will benefit from the additional home , whether they be able to buy those home , rent those home or , indeed , build those home , as we expand the number of construction apprenticeship and construct 10 new technical excellence college . they will also benefit from the increase in real household disposable income . when the economy grow , we want to have more money in people ' s pocket and that be what the OBR today confirm will happen . pharmacy such as Green End pharmacy in Whitchurch in my constituency be struggle with the impending hike in employer national insurance and business rate . in fact , they do not know what they be be pay for NHS service this financial year , let alone next . will the Chancellor confirm whether Pharmacy First will continue beyond the end of next week ? I be sure that the relevant Health Minister will be willing to meet with the hon . Lady to talk about that . because of the investment that we put into our national health service at the Budget last year — more than £ 20 billion of additional funding — we be able to start to rebuild our NHS and reduce waiting list . indeed , we have do that now for five month in a row . as we secure Britain ' s role in a change world , I welcome the Chancellor ' s focus on defence innovation and I thank she for reference my community , Aldershot and Farnborough . we be ready to serve . when it come to defence innovation , too many small and medium defence business in my community struggle to get access to the banking and finance facility they need , often on the basis of self - impose environmental , social and governance criterion . will the Chancellor join I in welcome the investor and financial institution that have respond to the campaign that I be lead with my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) , call on our bank and our fund manager to broaden their approach so that we can defend our country , support Ukraine and fire up our industrial base ? I be pleased to mention my hon . friend ' s constituency in my statement . as the home of the British Army , on behalf of this Government , we thank the people of Aldershot and Farnborough for the service that they give our country every single day . my hon . friend be right to mention the importance of company in the defence sector , whether big or small , be able to access finance . that have never be more important than it be today , when the threat pose by Putin continue to grow . I therefore urge everyone in financial service to do their part to make sure that our fantastic defence start - up have the money that they need to grow and help defend our country and our value . for the final question , I call Jim Allister . will the Chancellor well explain how the civil service cut will translate into the devolved region and the impact on future block grant allocation ? be there lesson to be learn from the fact that in 2015 , the Northern Ireland Executive have a voluntary exit scheme , upon which it spend £ 700 million , and then proceed to re - engage hundred of civil servant as agency worker ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point . that be why we have not set a number for the reduction in the size of the civil service and instead have make it an admin target . we do not want the number of civil servant to fall and then the number of agency worker and consultancy to increase . absolutely , this Government will learn from fail effort , both of the UK Government under the Conservatives and other Administrations in the past . Cornish Language and Heritage ( Education and Recognition ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the teaching and promotion of the cornish language in educational institution ; to make provision about the recognition of the cornish language and cornish heritage ; and for connected purpose . today be not just about preserve the cornish language , or Kernewek in Cornish ; it be about protect a cultural identity that be weave into the fabric of Cornwall ' s past , present and our future . Cornish can be trace back 4 , 000 year . over that time , cornish speaker be drive further west due to conflict and invasion from Europe , but it be our fisherman who keep the language alive until it fade in the 18th century . despite this , Cornish be officially recognise as a regional language by the UK Government in 2002 under part 2 of the european charter for regional or minority language . this be a landmark moment , affirm that Cornish — alongside Welsh , Scottish Gaelic , Irish , Scots and Ulster Scots — be a language to be protect and promote . the UK Government have commit to support those language , yet Cornish remain at part 2 status while four of the other five celtic language have part 3 protection , which offer strong commitment in area such as education , public life and the medium . in November 2024 , the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages issue recommendation urge the UK Government to take strong measure to support minority language , include enhance educational provision and promote language awareness . this Bill would work in lockstep with those recommendation and strengthen the UK ' s commitment to linguistic diversity . recognition of Kernewek be grow , but it need sustained support . Cornwall council and the Cornish National Minority Working Group have champion its survival through initiative such as Go Cornish , which now reach over 8 , 000 primary school child in 51 school , include Dobwalls community primary and Menheniot primary school in South East Cornwall , yet Cornish be still not formally embed in secondary or high education . a GCSE in Cornish once exist , but be discontinue in 1996 . the option to learn should always be available , and the Government ' s own charter commitment state that minority language education should be strengthen , and we must ensure that learn Cornish be a viable , accessible option — not a requirement , but a choice for those who wish to engage with their cultural heritage . teach Cornish should not be an add burden for overstretched school , but rather an exciting opportunity for student who wish to learn . the Go cornish programme prove that effective teaching can be do without increase teacher workload , as it provide structured resource , sound file and low administration learning model . it align with Ofsted ' s cultural capital framework , which encourage school to celebrate cultural tradition and history . beyond school , there must be provision to provide lifelong learning opportunity . at present , hundred of people sign up for Kernewek class each year , and university such as Exeter and Cambridge have previously offer Kernewek course . if Welsh and Gaelic can be successfully integrate into high education , why not cornish ? language visibility in public life be crucial for its survival . currently , Cornish do not have official status in Cornwall , nor be there any legislative requirement for its promotion . however , Cornwall council have work hard since 2013 to implement a strategy promote the language . I want to see this work and local effort strengthen by increase the use of Cornish in road sign , place name and public service . Kernewek be a beautiful and expressive language , reflect in the meaning behind some of the name of our town and village . Menheniot mean " sanctuary of St Neot " . cargreen translate to " seal rock " . looe mean " sea lake " and Luxulyan signify the " holy place of a saint " . understand these meaning not only improve our knowledge of the language but deepen our sense of belong and connection to Cornwall ' s history , landscape and identity . the Media Act 2024 now ensure that public service broadcaster must consider content in regional and minority language , include Cornish , yet obstacle remain to effort to enhance visibility and normalise everyday use of the language in medium such as local radio , television and online platform . Cornwall ' s distinct culture be not just historical ; it be live and evolve . support Cornish in public life be not about exclude English but about embrace bilingualism as a strength . we have see this work successfully in Wales and Scotland , and Cornwall should not be leave behind . support cornish language and heritage be not just a cultural necessity ; it also make economic sense . research commission by Glasgow city council in 2022 find that Gaelic contribute £ 21 . 6 million to Glasgow ' s economy through tourism , cultural event and branding . Cornwall have its own recognise identity and we have the same potential . tourism be a cornerstone of Cornwall ' s economy but it must be sustainable and beneficial for local community . research publish in 2021 , have show that technological advancement lead to globalisation have result in an increase trend of tourist look for a unique , authentic experience , and cultural tourism be a grow market . Kernewek event , heritage experience and bilingual signage can enhance visitor ' experience while reinforce our local identity . this be not about sell our identity ; it be about strengthen it . the commercialisation of linguistic heritage must be do responsibly to ensure it benefit cornish people first and foremost . Cornwall ' s language and culture be deeply connect to our natural environment , and it be not just aesthetic ; it be part of our identity . Cornwall and its people have always live in partnership with nature . we be of the sea and the land , work in harmony in the environment to grow and thrive . this be demonstrate in Cornwall that we see today . our landscape and coastline be beautiful , draw tourism from across the UK and internationally and serve as the backdrop for brilliant movie and tv show , such as " Beyond Paradise " . although the show be set in Devon , it be actually film in Looe , Whitsand bay and other beautiful location across South East Cornwall . clearly Devon recognise the beauty of Cornwall . even our wildlife carry cornish identity , and none more so than the Cornish chough , our iconic red - bill black - feather crow . once lose in Cornwall in the mid - 20th century , it be successfully reintroduce in 2001 , a symbol of resilience and revival . and just as the chough have return , so too can Kernewek flourish with the right protection and support . the Duchy be also visit by iconic specie such as humpback whale , bask shark and blue shark , while our land nurture unique flora such as the cornish heath , a vibrant purple flower that thrive on our specific rugged cliff . in Cornwall , we be proudly unique and distinct . the revival of Cornish have come through grassroots effort , support by Cornwall council and cultural organisation such as Golden Tree Productions , the Cornish Language Board and the Institute of Cornish Studies , but national support be need to secure its future . Cornish be more than just word . it be a link to our history , our story , our identity and our future . the promotion of cornish language and heritage be about ensure that Cornwall ' s culture and language have the recognition they deserve , and the support to flourish for generation to come . my a generth pubonan dhe dhyski nebe Kernewek . I encourage everyone to learn some Cornish . Meur ra . thank you . question put and agree to . order , that Anna Gelderd , Jayne Kirkham , Noah Law , Perran Moon , Andrew George and Ben Maguire present the Bill . Anna Gelderd accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 211 ) . Tobacco and Vapes Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 11 - age verification in relation to tobacco and vaping product etc " ( 1 ) the Tobacco and Primary Medical Services ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 3 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 4 ( age restriction on sale of tobacco product etc ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for paragraph ( b ) substitute — ' ( b ) the accuse have take such step as may be prescribe to establish the customer ' s age . ' ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) in section 4A ( age restriction on sale of vaping product etc ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for paragraph ( b ) substitute — ' ( b ) the accuse have take such step as may be prescribe to establish the customer ' s age . ' ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) in section 4b ( age verification policy ) , in subsection ( 5 ) omit paragraph ( b ) . " — ( Ashley Dalton . ) someone accuse of sell thing contrary to the age of sale restriction in Scotland have a defence if they check the customer ' s age on certain document . the clause allow other step to be specify to establish a person ' s age . the purpose be to accommodate digital method of verification . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — Review of contaminate e - liquid — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must conduct a review into the prevalence of contaminate e - liquid in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the review require under subsection ( 1 ) , must include , but be not limit to an assessment of — ( a ) the awareness of the issue of contaminate e - liquid , ( b ) the extent of e - liquid find spiked with illegal substance , ( c ) the measure in place to tackle the importation of contaminate e - liquid , ( d ) measure use by other jurisdiction to combat the importation and prevalence of contaminate e - liquid , and ( e ) option for far regulate e - liquid to limit the danger of contamination . ( 3 ) in conduct the review require under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State may consult with whoever they see fit . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must report to Parliament follow the conclusion of the review . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State have the power to make regulation under this section include the power to make — ( a ) offence relate to the contamination of e - liquid , include the distribution , importation , supply and merchandising or tampering of such product , ( b ) offence relate to the online sale of e - liquid contain illegal substance , ( c ) provision to improve the ability to identify , test and intercept contaminate e - liquid , and ( d ) provision recommend in the review implement by subsection ( 1 ) . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section , ' contaminate e - liquid ' mean e - liquid which have be mix with or include an illegal substance . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review and publish a report on the impact of contaminate e - liquid and way to reduce its prevalence . it would give the Secretary of State the power to make regulation in relation to curb the harm cause by contaminate e - liquid . new clause 2 — Ban on the supply of plastic cigarette filter — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation under section 140 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 have the effect of prohibit the supply of relevant cigarette filter or cigarette contain relevant cigarette filter , whether by way of sale or not , in the course of a business . ( 2 ) the notice require under section 140 ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 in relation to the regulation mention in subsection ( 1 ) must be publish no later than the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 3 ) in this section , ' relevant cigarette filter ' mean a filter which contain plastic and which be intend for use in a cigarette , whether as part of a ready make cigarette or to be use with hand roll tobacco or other substance to be smoke in a cigarette . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make regulation , within two year , which would prohibit the supply of cigarette filter which contain plastic or cigarette contain cigarette filter which contain plastic . the regulation would be make under section 140 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . new clause 3 — Amendment of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 — " ( 1 ) the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , after subsection ( 4 ) , insert — ' ( 4A ) this section do not apply in relation to Directive 2014 / 40 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the law , regulation and administrative provision of the Member States concern the manufacture , presentation and sale of tobacco and related product and repeal Directive 2001 / 37 / EC . ' " this new clause assert the primacy of the regulation make in this bill which affect Northern Ireland in relation to the EU tobacco directive 2014 / 40 / EU . new clause 4 — Ban on manufacture and sale of high - strength nicotine pouch — " ( 1 ) it be an offence to manufacture a high - strength nicotine pouch . ( 2 ) it be an offence to — ( a ) sell or expose for sale a high - strength nicotine pouch , or ( b ) offer or expose a high - strength nicotine pouch for sale . ( 3 ) it be an offence for a person to have a high - strength nicotine pouch in their possession with intent to supply it to another in the course of business . ( 4 ) in this section ' high - strength nicotine pouch ' mean a nicotine pouch that — ( a ) be intend for oral use , ( b ) be not intend to be inhale , ( c ) do not contain tobacco , and ( d ) contain more than 20 milligram of nicotine per pouch . ( 5 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 2 ) to prove that they take all reasonable step to avoid the commission of the offence . ( 6 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court , or a fine , or both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 2 year , or a fine , or both . " this new clause provide for a ban on the manufacture and sale of high - strength nicotine pouch . new clause 5 — report on sale of vape product to facilitate child sexual exploitation — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must produce a report on — ( a ) the potential prevalence of retailer with a personal or premise licence sell vaping product which facilitate child sexual exploitation ; and ( b ) whether licensing authority have adequate power to investigate retailer which may be connect to the sale of vape product to facilitate child sexual exploitation . ( 2 ) a copy of this report must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . ( 3 ) in this section — ' vaping ' have the same meaning as in Part 1 ( see section 48 ) , ' licensing authority ' have the same meaning as in Part 1 ( see section 16 ) , ' personal licence ' have the same meaning as in Part 1 ( see section 16 ) , ' premise licence ' have the same meaning as in Part 1 ( see section 16 ) . " new clause 6 — requirement for retailer of vape in England to include age - verification technology — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation make it an offence for a tobacco retailer who sell vape on premise in England to sell vape that do not contain approve age - gate technology . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation specify the requirement with which any age - gate technology must comply , which must include ( but need not be limit to ) — ( a ) the information , include biometric information , that a user must provide to the age - gate technology in order to be able to use the vape ; ( b ) the step that the age - gate technology must require the user to take in order to verify their identity and that they be age 18 or over before first activate the vape for use ; ( c ) the step which the age - gate technology must require the user to take in order to verify their identity follow activation of the vape , and the frequency with , and circumstance in , which the age - gate technology must require these step to be take ; ( d ) the requirement with which the age - gate technology must comply in order to ensure the security of the information , include personal datum , provide to it by user ; ( e ) the technical specification which the age - gate technology must meet in order to ensure that it be compatible with vape make by different manufacturer . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation under this section make further provision about requirement with which tobacco retailer must comply . ( 4 ) in this section , ' age - gate technology ' mean technology design to prevent the use of vape product by person age under 18 . ( 5 ) before make regulation under this section the Secretary of State must consult any person the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to consult . ( 6 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . " this new clause would introduce a requirement for retailer of vape in England to include age - verification technology . new clause 7 — requirement for retailer of vape in Wales to include age - verification technology — " ( 1 ) the Welsh Ministers may make regulation make it an offence for a tobacco retailer who sell vape on premise in Wales to sell vape that do not contain approve age - gate technology . ( 2 ) the Welsh Ministers may by regulation specify the requirement , with which any age - gate technology must comply , which must include ( but need not be limit to ) — ( a ) the information , include biometric information , that a user must provide to the age - gate technology in order to be able to use the vape ; ( b ) the step that the age - gate technology must require the user to take in order to verify their identity and that they be age 18 or over before first activate the vape for use ; ( c ) the step which the age - gate technology must require the user to take in order to verify their identity follow activation of the vape , and the frequency with , and circumstance in , which the age - gate technology must require these step to be take ; ( d ) the requirement with which the age - gate technology must comply in order to ensure the security of the information , include personal datum , provide to it by user ; ( e ) the technical specification which the age - gate technology must meet in order to ensure that it be compatible with vape make by different manufacturer . ( 3 ) the Welsh Ministers may by regulation under subsection ( 2 ) make further provision about requirement with which tobacco retailer must comply . ( 4 ) in this section , " age - gate technology " mean technology design to prevent the use of vape product by person age under 18 . ( 5 ) before make regulation under this section the Welsh Ministers must consult any person that the Welsh Ministers consider it appropriate to consult . ( 6 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . " this new clause would introduce a requirement for retailer of vape in Wales to include age - verification technology . new clause 8 — prohibition of advertising of vaping , nicotine and heated tobacco product — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must within six month of this Act be pass make provision by regulation for the prohibition of advertising of — ( a ) a vaping product ; or ( b ) a nicotine product ; or ( c ) a heated tobacco product . ( 2 ) before make regulation under this section the Secretary of State must consult any person the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to consult . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause commit the government to consult on proposal for prohibit the advertising of vaping , nicotine or heated tobacco product . new clause 9 — marketing of product to exist smoker — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State , or a person authorise by the Secretary of State , may make provision about the nature and inclusion of health warning or disclaimer relate to a relevant product to ensure that the product be market exclusively to exist smoker as an alternative to smoking . ( 2 ) in this section , ' relevant product ' refer to — ( a ) a vape , or ( b ) a nicotine product . ( 3 ) compliance with this section be consider a defence to a charge in relation to an offence under Part 6 . " this new clause will allow the Secretary of State to place an additional disclaimer or warn on product . new clause 10 — display of product or price in England — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation impose limitation or requirement on retailer in relation to the display , in the course of business , of — ( a ) relevant product in a place in England where the product be offer for sale , ( b ) empty retail packaging of relevant product in a place in England where the product be offer for sale , ( c ) price of relevant product in a place in England where the product be offer for sale , or ( d ) advertisement for relevant product . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , reference to a product include anything that represent the product . ( 3 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) must make provision — ( i ) for ensure that an adult be able to be inform that a premise sell a related product , ( ii ) for ensure that a consent adult be able to view the relate product and information relate to they , ( iii ) relate to the appropriateness of a display to ensure that it do not appeal to child , and ( iv ) relate to the location of a display in a place in England where the product be offer for sale ; ( b ) may create offence for a failure to comply with the regulation ; ( c ) must provide for any offence to be punishable – ( i ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court , or a fine , or both ; ( ii ) on conviction or indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 2 year , or a fine , or both ; ( d ) be subject to public consultation ; ( e ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . ( 4 ) compliance with regulation make under subsection ( 3 ) be consider a defence to a charge in relation to an offence under Part 6 . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — ' consent adult ' mean an adult who have enter any licensed premise that sell nicotine , vape , and tobacco product ; ' relevant product ' mean — ( a ) tobacco product , ( b ) vaping product , or ( c ) nicotine product . " this new clause will allow for the Secretary of State to restrict how vape and nicotine product be advertise in store window and in store , while ensure that adult smoker be still able to determine that a premise sell a product . new clause 12 — Review of provision — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , in consultation with the appropriate minister in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland — ( a ) carry out a review of the provision for relevant product in — ( i ) section 1 to 6 ( sale of tobacco etc ) ; ( ii ) section 50 to 55 ( part 2 sale and distribution : scotland : sale of tobacco etc ) ; ( iii ) section 68 to 72 ( part 2 Sale and Distribution Northern Ireland sale of tobacco etc ) ; ( iv ) section 90 to 93 ( product requirement etc ) ; ( v ) section 94 ( non - compliant image ) ; ( vi ) section 101 and 102 ( matter deal with by 2016 Regulations ) ; ( vii ) part 6 ( advertising and Sponsorship ) ; ( b ) prepare and publish a report set out the conclusion of the review ; ( c ) lie the report before Parliament . ( 2 ) the review in subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) set out the objective intend to be achieve by the provision as set out under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( b ) assess the extent to which those objective have be achieve , and ( c ) make a recommendation on whether the provision as set out under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) remain appropriate and necessary . ( 3 ) the first review under this section must be publish and lay before Parliament before the end of the period of five year begin with the day on which the Tobacco and Vapes Act 2025 be pass . ( 4 ) if the review recommend under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) that one or more of the provision set out under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) be no long appropriate or necessary , the Secretary of State must make arrangement for the motion mention in subsection ( 5 ) to be table in both Houses of Parliament within a period of 28 sitting day begin immediately after the review be lay before Parliament under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) the form of the motion in subsection ( 4 ) be — ' that the provision of section 1 to 6 , 50 to 55 , 68 to 72 , 90 to 94 , 101 and 102 and Part 6 ( advertising and Sponsorship ) of the Tobacco and Vapes Act 2025 should expire . ' ( 6 ) if both Houses of Parliament approve the motion in the form set out in subsection ( 5 ) ( or in such form as may be subsequently amend by the House to specify one or more of the provision of section 1 to 6 , 50 to 55 , 68 to 72 , 90 to 94 , 101 and 102 and Part 6 ) , move by the Secretary of State in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) , the provision specify in the motion shall expire at the end of the period of 21 day begin with the day on which the second House approve the motion . ( 7 ) subsequent report must be publish at interval not exceed five year . ( 8 ) in this subsection , ' relevant product ' refer to — ( a ) tobacco product ; ( b ) nicotine product . " this new clause require a review of the necessity of provision relate to the sale restriction for tobacco product and nicotine product . publish every 5 year , the review could recommend that certain provision be no long require , and Parliament would have an opportunity to expire they . new clause 13 — report on roadmap to a smoke - free United Kingdom — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , on or before the relevant day and at least once every five year after that day , prepare and lie before Parliament a report set out — ( a ) how the Secretary of State expect the smoke - free target will be achieve ; ( b ) the step propose to achieve that target ( which may include the setting of interim target ) ; ( c ) an analysis of statistical datum relate to the achievement of the smoke - free target . ( 2 ) the report must set out target and propose step relate to geographical area or category of people in respect of which there be high than average rate of smoking . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must consult the appropriate national authority when prepare the report . ( 4 ) in this section — ( a ) ' appropriate national authority ' mean — ( i ) Welsh Ministers , ( ii ) Scottish Ministers , and ( iii ) Executive Ministers in Northern Ireland . ( b ) ' relevant day ' mean the last day before 25 December 2026 which be a sit day for both Houses of Parliament ; ( c ) ' the smoke - free target ' mean the end of the smoking of tobacco product in the United Kingdom . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to prepare and lie before Parliament five - yearly report contain a roadmap to a smoke - free country include target and specific intervention for population with high prevalence rate . new clause 14 — prohibition on supply of cigarette filter — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation have the effect of prohibit the supply of cigarette filter or cigarette contain cigarette filter , whether by way of sale or not , in the course of a business . ( 2 ) subsection ( 6 ) , ( 8 ) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , ( 10a ) , ( 10b ) , ( 10c ) and ( 10d ) of section 140 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 apply to regulation under this section as they apply to regulation under those section . ( 3 ) the notice require under section 140 ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 as apply by subsection ( 2 ) in relation to the regulation mention in subsection ( 1 ) must be publish no later than the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 4 ) in this section , ' cigarette filter ' mean a filter which be intend for use in a cigarette , whether as part of a ready - make cigarette or to be use with hand roll tobacco or other substance to be smoke in a cigarette . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make regulation which would prohibit the supply of cigarette filter or cigarette contain cigarette filter . new clause 15 — advertising exemption for specialist vaping retailer — " ( 1 ) a person do not commit an offence under any of the section 114 to 118 in relation to an advertisement whose purpose or effect be to promote a vaping product if the advertisement — ( a ) be in a specialist vaping shop ( b ) be not visible from outside the specialist vaping shop ( c ) complie with the requirement ( if any ) specify by the appropriate national authority in regulation as to the inclusion of health warning and information . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) be subject to the negative resolution procedure . ( 3 ) in this section — ' appropriate national authority ' — ( a ) in relation to specialist vaping shop in England , mean the Secretary of State , ( b ) in relation to specialist vaping shop in Wales , mean Welsh Ministers , ( c ) in relation to specialist vaping shop in Scotland , mean Scottish Ministers , and ( d ) in relation to specialist vaping shop in Northern Ireland , mean the Department of Health for Northern Ireland ; ' shop ' include a self - contain part of a shop ( and , in relation to a self - contain part of a shop , ' premise ' mean that self - contain part ) ; ' specialist vaping shop ' mean a shop sell vaping product by retail ( whether or not it sell other thing ) more than 90 % of whose sale on the premise in quest derive from the sale of vape product and vape accessory . ( 4 ) for the purpose of determine whether a shop be a specialist vaping shop the sale be to be measure by the sale price — ( a ) during the most recent period of 12 month for which account be available , or ( b ) during the period for which the shop have be establish , if it have not be establish long enough for 12 month ' account to be available . " this new clause would enable specialist vape retailer to operate and provide free advice and consultation to smoker who be try to find the right product for they to quit . new clause 16 — online sale of tobacco product — " ( 1 ) it be an offence to supply a tobacco product through an internet service , whether by way of sale or not . ( 2 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to prove that they take all reasonable step to avoid the commission of the offence . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — ' internet service ' mean a service that be make available by mean of the internet , even if it ' s make available use a combination of the internet and an electronic communication service as define in Section 32 ( 2 ) of the Communications Act 2003 . " this new clause create an offence of sell tobacco product online . new clause 17 — Tobacco product statutory scheme : consultation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult and report on the desirability of make a scheme with one or more of the follow purpose — ( a ) regulating , for the purpose of improve public health , the price which may be charge by any producer or importer of tobacco product for the supply of any tobacco product , ( b ) limit the profit which may accrue to any producer or importer in connection with the manufacture or supply of tobacco product , ( c ) provide for any producer or importer of tobacco product to pay to the Secretary of State an amount calculate by reference to sale or estimate sale of those product ( whether on the basis of net price , average selling price or otherwise ) to be use for the purpose of reduce smoking prevalence and improve public health . ( 2 ) in this section — ' importer ' in relation to tobacco product , and " tobacco product " have the meaning as in Part 5 ( see section 112 ) , ' producer ' in relation to tobacco product , be to be construe in accordance with the meaning of ' production ' in Part 5 ( see section 112 ) . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to consult on proposal for regulate the price and profit of , and to raise fund from , tobacco manufacturer and importer . new clause 18 — consultation on licensing regulation — " ( 1 ) within two month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish draft regulation for the licensing of retail sale of tobacco product etc in England . ( 2 ) follow the publication of the draft regulation as set out in subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a call for evidence seek view on the efficacy and suitability of the draft regulation and invite the House of Commons Business and Trade Committee to scrutinise the draft regulation . ( 3 ) after six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a report set out the Government ' s formal response to evidence submit in response to the call for evidence require by subsection ( 2 ) and any recommendation of the House of Commons Business and Trade Committee . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may not make an order under section 168 ( 4 ) bring section 16 to 18 and schedule 1 and 2 into force until the report specify in subsection ( 3 ) have be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish draft regulation for the licensing of retail sale of tobacco product etc in England and ensure they receive parliamentary scrutiny . new clause 19 — report on illegal sale of tobacco and vaping product — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) prepare an annual report on the scale of the illegal sale and availability of tobacco and vaping product in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) lie a copy of each report before both Houses of Parliament . ( 2 ) each report must provide detail in the United Kingdom of — ( a ) the estimate amount and value of illegal , counterfeit and contraband cigarette and other tobacco product available for sale ; ( b ) the estimate amount and value of illegal or non - compliant vape available for sale ; ( c ) the action take to tackle the illicit trade of tobacco , tobacco product , vaping device and vaping product ; and ( d ) an assessment of the impact of the illicit trade of tobacco , vape and nicotine product on public health and safety . ( 3 ) the first report must be lay within the period of 12 month of the passing of this Act . ( 4 ) each subsequent report must be lay annually begin with the day on which the previous report be lay . " this new clause would require that the Government produce annual report on the rate of sale and availability of illegal tobacco and vaping product and their impact on public health and safety . new clause 20 — age verification requirement for online sale of vaping device and product — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if the person — ( a ) continue to operate an online vaping product business , and ( b ) fail to operate an age verification policy in respect of online sale of vape product and device . ( 2 ) an ' age verification policy ' be a policy that step be to be take to establish and ensure the age of a person attempt to buy a vaping product ( the ' customer ' ) be not under 18 year of age . ( 3 ) the appropriate national authority may by regulation amend the age specify in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) the appropriate national authority may publish guidance on matter relate to age verification policy , include , in particular , guidance about — ( a ) step that should be take to establish a customer ' s age , ( b ) document that may be use as evidence of a customer ' s age , ( c ) training that should be undertake by the person sell vaping product , ( d ) the form and content of notice that should be display on website ; and ( e ) the form and content of record that should be maintain in relation to an age verification policy . ( 5 ) a person guilty of an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 2 on the standard scale . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 3 ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . ( 7 ) in this section — ' the appropriate national authority ' mean — ( a ) in relation to England , the Secretary of State , and ( b ) in relation to Wales , the Welsh Ministers , ' online vape product business ' mean a business involve the sale of vape product by retail online . " this new clause introduce a requirement on online vaping product business to operate an age verification policy cover step to be take to establish the age of person attempt to buy vaping product online . it reflect provision in place in Scotland . new clause 21 — prohibition on manufacture and retail of high - capacity count vaping device — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must produce regulation relate to the design , manufacture and sale of vaping device and product that ensure — ( a ) vaping device must not be design or manufacture in a way that allow refill container , modular attachment , or third - party modification that increase e - liquid capacity beyond the limit of 2ml per tank or pod , which include , but be not limit to detachable extension , multi - pod configuration , and external refill reservoir . ( b ) any vaping device must contain a fix , non - modifiable single - use tank or pod with a maximum capacity of 2ml . ( c ) Refill e - liquid container must be limit to a maximum of 10ml per bottle and must not be sell in form that enable direct integration with a vaping device as an extended tank or automate refill mechanism . ( d ) no manufacturer or retailer shall promote , sell , or advertise modification kit , refill system , or accessory attachment design to contravene the Tobacco and Related Products Regulations 2016 restriction on vape device capacity . ( 2 ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) Manufacture , import , distribute , or sell a vaping device or accessory that do not comply with the regulatory requirement set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( b ) Advertise , market , or sell component that facilitate increase a device ' s effective e - liquid capacity beyond the legal limit . ( 3 ) a person who be guilty of an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine of £ 20 , 000 per violation or a ban on further sale within the UK market . ( 4 ) a person who be guilty of an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine of £ 10 , 000 per violation and may be subject to further regulatory action , include product recall or withdrawal from sale . " this new clause would seek the introduction of regulation and new offence to prohibit the manufacture , design and retail sale of high - capacity count vaping device . amendment 103 , page 1 , line 4 , leave out clause 1 . this amendment remove the generational ban on sell tobacco product to people bear on or after 1 January 2009 . amendment 4 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment make it an offence to sell tobacco product , herbal smoking product and cigarette paper to a person under the age of 21 , rather than to people bear on or after 1 January 2009 . amendment 38 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out " a tobacco product " and insert " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " . government amendment 47 . amendment 5 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 13 , leave out " show that document be before 1 January 2009 " and insert " show that the purchaser be not under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . government amendment 48 and 49 . amendment 104 , page 2 , line 10 , leave out clause 2 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 6 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 11 , leave out " 18 " and insert " 21 " . this amendment make it an offence to purchase tobacco product , herbal smoking product and cigarette paper on behalf of a person under the age of 25 , rather than a person bear on or after 1 January 2009 . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 12 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . amendment 39 , page 2 , line 13 , leave out " a tobacco product " and insert " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " . this amendment be link to Amendment 38 . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 18 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . government amendment 50 . Amendment 105 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out clause 5 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 9 , in clause 5 , page 3 , line 8 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 106 , page 3 , line 25 , leave out clause 6 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 10 , in clause 6 , page 3 , line 30 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 11 , page 3 , line 32 , leave out " a anwyd ar neu ar ô l 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " dan 21 oed " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . government amendment 51 to 59 . amendment 1 , in clause 38 , page 20 , line 19 , leave out from " be " to the end of line and insert " be allocate by the relevant Local Authority to public health project . " this amendment would direct fund from Fixed Penalty Notice fine to public health initiative as determine by Local Authorities . amendment 2 , page 20 , line 20 , leave out from " before " to the second " the " and insert " such sum be allocate by the relevant Local Authorities " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 1 . government amendment 60 to 63 . Amendment 107 , page 25 , line 26 , leave out clause 50 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 40 , in clause 50 , page 25 , line 30 , after " subsection ( 1 ) " insert — " ( i ) for ' a tobacco product ' substitute ' cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) ' , and " . this amendment exempt tobacco product other than cigarette and hand roll tobacco from the offence of sell tobacco product to a person bear on or after 1 January 2009 . amendment 12 , page 25 , line 30 , leave out " ' bear on or after 1 January 2009 ' " and insert " ' under the age of 21 ' " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 13 , page 25 , line 33 , leave out " ' bear on or after 1 January 2009 ( " the customer ) to have be bear before that date " ' " and insert " ' under the age of 21 ( " the customer " ) to be age 21 or over ' " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 14 , page 25 , line 37 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 15 , page 26 , line 1 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 41 , page 26 , line 6 , leave out " a tobacco product " and insert " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " . this amendment be link to Amendment 40 . amendment 42 , page 26 , line 28 , after " subsection ( 1 ) " insert — " ( i ) for " a tobacco product " substitute " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " , and " . this amendment be link to Amendment 40 . amendment 16 , page 26 , line 28 , leave out " ' bear on or after 1 January 2009 ' " and insert " ' under the age of 21 ' " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 17 , page 26 , line 30 , leave out " ' bear on or after 1 January 2009 ' " and insert " ' under 21 ' " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 18 , page 26 , line 33 , leave out " ' bear on or after 1 January 2009 ' " and insert " ' under the age of 21 ' " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . government amendment 64 . amendment 108 , page 35 , line 24 , leave out clause 68 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 19 , page 35 , line 28 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 43 , page 35 , line 30 , leave out " a tobacco product " and insert " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " . this amendment exempt tobacco product other than cigarette and hand roll tobacco from the offence of sell tobacco product to a person bear on or after 1 January 2009 . government amendment 65 . amendment 20 , page 35 , line 37 , leave out " show on that document be before 1 January 2009 " and insert " show that the purchaser be not under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . government amendment 66 and 67 . amendment 109 , page 36 , line 13 , leave out clause 69 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . amendment 21 , page 36 , line 16 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . amendment 22 , page 36 , line 18 , leave out " 18 " and insert " 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . amendment 23 , page 36 , line 19 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . amendment 44 , page 36 , line 21 , leave out " a tobacco product " and insert " cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) " . this amendment be link to Amendment 43 . amendment 24 , page 36 , line 26 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 6 . government amendment 68 . amendment 110 , page 37 , line 19 , leave out clause 72 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . Amendment 25 , in clause 72 , page 37 , line 27 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . government amendment 69 to 79 . amendment 86 , in clause 90 , page 50 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( da ) cigarette filter ; " . this amendment enable the Secretary of State to make provision about the retail packaging of cigarette filter and the composition of individual product contain in an individual pack of product outline in Clause 90 ( 1 ) . amendment 87 , page 51 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( ja ) the composition of individual product contain in an individual pack ; " . this amendment enable the Secretary of State to make provision about the retail packaging of cigarette filter and the composition of individual product contain in an individual pack of product outline in Clause 90 ( 1 ) . amendment 36 , page 51 , line 30 , delete " shape " and insert " design , shape or interoperability " . this amendment empower minister to regulate the design and interoperability of product in order to prohibit the sale of very high - puff count vaping device . amendment 37 , in clause 92 , page 52 , line 3 , after " flavour " insert " descriptor " . this amendment would give the Secretary of State power to make provision about the flavour descriptor of relevant product . amendment 88 , in clause 110 , page 60 , line 35 , leave out from " consult " to end of line 36 and insert " any person or body as appear to he or her representative of the interest concern . " this amendment would ensure that the Secretary of State have to consult all relevant party before make regulation , rather than just those that they deem appropriate . government amendment 80 . amendment 90 , in clause 114 , page 63 , line 16 , after " product , " insert " except for the public health purpose of promote vaping as a cessation tool for exist tobacco smoker , " . this amendment would allow vape to be promote as a quit - aid / public health measure . amendment 46 , in clause 120 , page 68 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( can ) it be , when in relation to the advertising of vape product or nicotine product , in a location in which it would be reasonable to expect that everyone present be age 18 or over . " this amendment would allow for the advertising of vaping or nicotine product within location where it be reasonable to expect that everyone present be over 18 . amendment 91 , in clause 125 , page 73 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) no offence be commit under this part if — ( a ) it be for the purpose of an interaction between a representative for the product and a member of the public , and ( b ) the representative for the product have take reasonable measure to ensure that the member of the public be aged over 18 and be an exist tobacco or nicotine user . " this amendment will allow for vape and nicotine product to be promote through one - to - one interaction between individual represent the product and adult who be already exist smoker or nicotine user . amendment 85 , in clause 136 , page 77 , line 8 , leave out from " smoke - free " to end of line 15 and insert " a place in England that be — ( a ) an NHS property or hospital building , ( b ) a child ' s playground , or ( c ) a nursery , school , college or high education premise . " this amendment restrict the Secretary of State to only be able to designate open or unenclosed space outside a hospital , child ' s playground , nursery , school , college or high education premise as smoke - free area . amendment 84 , page 77 , line 9 , leave out from " place " to the end of line 12 and insert " or description of place in England that be not smoke - free under section 2 . ( 1A ) the place , or place fall within the description , need not be enclose or substantially enclose . ( 1b ) the Secretary of State may designate a place or description of place under this section only if they be advise by the Department for Health and Social Care ' s Chief Scientific Adviser that there be a significant risk that , without a designation , person present there would be expose to significant quantity of smoke or , if say place be — ( a ) an NHS property or hospital building , ( b ) a child ' s playground , or ( c ) a nursery , school , college or high education premise . " this amendment would restrict the Secretary of State to only be able to designate open or unenclosed space outside a hospital , child ' s playground , nursery , school , college or high education premise , or place with significant risk of second - hand smoke as smoke - free area . amendment 92 , page 77 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may designate a place or description of place under this section only if , in the Secretary of State ' s opinion , there be a significant risk that , without a designation , person present there would be expose to significant quantity of smoke . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as smoke - free may only be make if the Secretary of State be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person be expose to significant quantity of smoke . Amendment 82 , in clause 137 , page 78 , leave out line 5 to 12 . this amendment remove the propose power for the Secretary of State to create defence for performance . this protect the health of actor in the workplace and prevent the promotion of smoke through artistic mean . amendment 83 , page 78 , leave out line 15 to 21 . this amendment remove the propose power for the Secretary of State to create defence for performance . this protect the health of actor in the workplace and prevent the promotion of smoke through artistic mean . amendment 93 , in clause 139 , page 79 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may designate a place or description of place under this section only if , in the Secretary of State ' s opinion , there be a significant risk that , without a designation , the use of vape may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use vape . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as vape - free may only be make if the Secretary of State be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to adverse health effect . amendment 94 , in clause 140 , page 82 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may designate a place or description of place under this section only if , in the Secretary of State ' s opinion , there be a significant risk that , without a designation , the use of heated tobacco device may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use heated tobacco device . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as heated tobacco - free may only be make if the Secretary of State be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to adverse health effect . amendment 95 , in clause 142 , page 85 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) premise may be prescribe as no - smoking premise only if in the Scottish Ministers ' opinion there be a significant risk that , without prescribe they , person present there would be expose to significant quantity of smoke . " this amendment provide that regulation to prescribe premise as smoke - free may only be make if the Scottish Ministers be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person be expose to significant quantity of smoke . amendment 96 , in clause 144 , page 90 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) premise may be prescribe as vape - free premise only if in the Scottish Ministers ' opinion there be a significant risk that , without prescribe they , the use of vape may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use vape . " this amendment provide that regulation to prescribe premise as vape - free may only be make if the Scottish Ministers be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to a significant risk of adverse health effect . amendment 97 , in clause 145 , page 92 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) premise may be prescribe as heated tobacco - free premise only if in the Scottish Ministers ' opinion there be a significant risk that , without prescribe they , the use of heated tobacco device may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use heated tobacco device . " this amendment provide that regulation to prescribe premise as heated tobacco - free may only be make if the Scottish Ministers be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to a significant risk of adverse health effect . amendment 98 , in clause 150 , page 98 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the regulation may designate a place or vehicle as vape - free only if the Welsh Ministers be satisfied that do so be likely to contribute towards the promotion of public health . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate a place or vehicle as vape - free may only be make if the Welsh Ministers be satisfied that this be likely to contribute towards the promotion of public health . amendment 99 , in clause 151 , page 105 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the regulation may designate a place or vehicle as heated tobacco - free only if the Welsh Ministers be satisfied that do so be likely to contribute towards the promotion of public health . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate a place or vehicle as heated tobacco - free may only be make if the Welsh Ministers be satisfied that this be likely to contribute towards the promotion of the health of the people of Wales . Amendment 100 , in clause 153 , page 108 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Department may designate a place or description of place under this article only if satisfied that , without the designation , person present there would be likely to be expose to significant quantity of smoke . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as smoke - free may only be make if the Northern Ireland Department be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person be expose to significant quantity of smoke . amendment 101 , in clause 155 , page 110 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Department may designate a place or vehicle under this article only if the Department be satisfied there be a significant risk that , without a designation , the use of vape may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use vape . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as vape - free may only be make if the Northern Ireland Department be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to adverse health effect . amendment 102 , in clause 156 , page 113 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Department may designate a place or vehicle under this article only if the Department be satisfied there be a significant risk that , without a designation , the use of heated tobacco device may have adverse effect on the health of person present there who be not use heated tobacco device . " this amendment provide that regulation to designate place as heated tobacco - free may only be make if the Northern Ireland Department be satisfied that they be necessary to avoid person present there be expose to adverse health effect . amendment 89 , in clause 168 , page 120 , line 39 , leave out from " force " to end of line 41 and insert " on such a date as the Secretary of State may by regulation appoint follow the consultation on licensing regulation ( see section ( consultation on licensing regulation ) ) . " see explanatory statement for NC18 . Government amendment 81 . amendment 26 , in schedule 5 , page 132 , line 2 , leave out " a anwyd ar neu ar ô l 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " dan 21 oed " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . Amendment 27 , page 132 , line 7 , leave out " a anwyd ar neu ar ô l 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " dan 21 oed ( " B " ) " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 28 , page 132 , line 12 , leave out " a anwyd ar neu ar ô l 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " dan 21 oed " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 29 , page 132 , line 38 , leave out " wedi cael ei eni cyn 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " yn 21 oed neu drosodd " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 30 , page 133 , line 2 , leave out " wedi cael ei eni ar neu ar ô l 1 Ionawr 2009 " and insert " dan 21 oed " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 111 , page 133 , line 15 , leave out paragraph 5 . this amendment be link to Amendment 103 . Amendment 31 , page 133 , line 16 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 32 , page 133 , line 21 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 33 , page 133 , line 26 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 45 , page 133 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in this section , " tobacco product " mean cigarette or hand roll tobacco within the meaning of the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 829 ) . " this amendment be link to Amendment 38 . Amendment 34 , page 134 , line 9 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . amendment 35 , page 134 , line 14 , leave out " bear on or after 1 January 2009 " and insert " under the age of 21 " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 . I would like to start by thank all right hon . and hon . member for their invaluable contribution during the passage of the Bill to date , and in particular , member of the Public Bill Committee for provide insight , scrutiny and debate . I be honour to have take on responsibility for this Bill . it be a watershed piece of legislation and the most significant public health intervention since the ban on smoking in public place in 2007 . it will establish a smokefree generation by gradually end the sale of tobacco product across the UK so that a child turn 16 this year will never be able to be legally sell tobacco , save countless life in the process . it will strengthen exist power to reduce the harm of second - hand smoke in public space . in keep with our manifesto commitment to the british people , it will outlaw the manipulative promotion of vape to child to protect the next generation from become hook on nicotine . finally , it will implement robust measure to strengthen enforcement activity . I do not need to tell anyone in this Chamber that tobacco kill — we all know that . what hon . member may not know be just how much it kill , the rate at which it kill , and the devastation it cause for individual , family and community across the country . let I remind hon . member that tobacco kill more people than any other preventable cause of death . around 80 , 000 people in the UK lose their life to tobacco every year . it rob an average of 10 year off the life expectancy of smoker . it substantially increase the risk of many major health condition throughout people ' s life , such as stroke , diabete , heart disease , stillbirth , dementia and asthma . this daily tragedy continue unabated , with someone be admit to hospital because of smoke almost every minute , day in , day out , with no end in sight . tobacco harm be not feel equally either . our most disadvantaged community suffer most , with 230 , 000 household live in smoking - induce poverty . in Blackpool , 17 . 5 % of pregnant woman still smoke at the time of delivery compare with 2 . 8 % in Kensington and Chelsea . over a quarter of people with a long - term mental health condition smoke . beyond the immeasurable cost to life in the UK , the staggering economic impact of tobacco on our NHS can not be ignore . the treatment of smoking - relate disease consume approximately £ 3 billion a year of vital NHS and social care resource . the cost of smoking to our economy be even great : £ 18 billion be lose in productivity every year , far outweigh the tax receipt it bring in of around £ 9 billion . the Bill be a vital step to break the devastating cycle of tobacco addiction and safeguard future generation from a lifetime of ill health . but the world move forward , and we can not ignore the alarming rise of youth vaping . while vaping be less harmful than smoke and can be an effective quit aid for adult smoker , child should never vape . however , in the past five year , youth vaping have more than double . one in four 11 to 15 - year - old try vape in 2023 , and that be no accident . it be in part due to the deliberate branding and advertisement of vape to our child , with brightly coloured packaging and entice sweet - like flavour — a calculate strategy to hook young people on nicotine . we can not afford to wait to act . I turn to the Government amendment , which seek to strengthen the Bill and ensure great clarity . as we create the first smokefree generation and strengthen age restriction on vape and nicotine product , we want to support retailer in take appropriate step to ensure they do not sell to customer under the age of sale . new clause 11 and Government amendment 47 to 49 , 51 to 53 , 61 , 63 , 65 to 67 , 69 to 71 , 75 , 77 , 79 and 81 be a package of amendment and consequential amendment to the Bill . they seek to remove potential ambiguity for retailer regard the use of digital identity for verify the age of prospective customer when sell tobacco , vaping and nicotine product . in Committee , Members raise concern that the list of identity document to satisfy the defence for a person charge with sell product to someone under the age of sale be limited , and query the inclusion of other form of physical and digital identity . these amendment remove the list of physical ID from the Bill and instead provide power for the Secretary of State and the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to specify in regulation the step that may be take to verify a customer ' s age to meet the requirement for the defence . this revised approach well future - proof the defence against development in identification process and provide the potential to recognise digital ID , as well as physical ID , in the context of the defence , support the widespread use of digital ID . the amendment provide the opportunity for effective interaction with part 2 of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill that be currently go through Parliament , which include provision relate to digital verification service . digital verification service provide an opportunity to securely verify age for in - person and online sale . we will continue to work closely with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and other Departments when develop the regulation . new clause 11 provide a similar power for Scottish Ministers to prescribe in regulation the step that should be take to establish a customer ' s age as a defence to an age of sale offence . that will enable Scottish Ministers to respond to change in technology and consumer behaviour , which may move away from the presentation of a physical document . the last Labour Government take bold action to prohibit display of tobacco product to protect child and young people from be entice into addiction and to create a more supportive environment for adult seek to quit . the Bill go far and give power to limit the display of a wide range of product , include herbal smoking product , cigarette paper , vape and nicotine product . government amendment 56 , 57 , 60 , 62 , 74 , 76 , 78 and 80 will alter the power in the Bill for England , Wales and Northern Ireland that regulate display of product and their price , so that they also cover tobacco - relate device . as be discuss in Committee , pipe , heated tobacco device and bong be currently display in shop and can have the effect of promote tobacco usage . the amendment will ensure that we can make regulation to stop product that facilitate the consumption of tobacco be openly display by retailer . the Bill ban the sale of vape , nicotine product and cigarette paper from vend machine in England , Wales and Northern Ireland and restate the exist ban on tobacco vending machine . we know that vend machine be use to bypass age of sale restriction and to undertake proxy purchase on behalf of people under the age of sale . government amendment 50 , 54 , 55 , 64 , 68 , 72 and 73 be clarify amendment that make the scope of the prohibition on vend machine absolutely clear , as be discuss in Committee . the Government ' s position be that the Protection from Tobacco ( sale from Vending Machines ) ( England ) Regulations 2010 already apply where a customer have a coupon , receipt or token purchase elsewhere that can be redeem at a machine . we be amend the clause so that all machine that dispense product in connection with a sale be clearly capture by the ban . the Bill strengthen the enforcement regime to support law - abide retailer while take action against those who break the rule . along with introduce new fix penalty notice and new power to create a licensing system , the Bill re - enact provision on restrict premise order and restrict sale order . those be exist measure that local authority trading standard in England and Wales can use when deal with a retailer that persistently breach restriction . that ensure there be a range of tool in the enforcement armoury , so that trading standard officer can act quickly and effectively against rogue retailer . government amendment 58 and 59 clarify a point raise in Committee by remove a duplicative and unnecessary provision that would prevent a business or individual from operate a vend machine for the sale of tobacco , vaping or nicotine product follow the issuing of a restrict premise order or a restricted sale order . give that the Bill already prohibit the use of vend machine for tobacco , vaping or nicotine product , there be no need for restrict premise order and restrict sale order to expressly prohibit the use of vend machine . together , the Government amendment will improve the implementation and enforceability of measure in the Bill to ensure the most effective protection for the public , and I commend they to the House . turn to the other amendment in the group , I thank hon . member for their scrutiny of the Bill so far . when I wind up , I will try to cover the key theme that be touch on . on the amendment that seek to undermine the smokefree generation , I be sure we will hear argument from some hon . member who have be listen to the tobacco industry ' s argument and myth about how people should be free to make their own choice . I would say to they that smoke kill two third of its user . three quarter of people wish they have never start smoke , and the majority want to quit — that be not freedom of choice . the tobacco industry take away that choice with addiction , usually at a young age . on smokefree place , we have be clear : in England , we intend to consult on extend smokefree outdoor place to outside school , child ' s playground and hospital , but not to outdoor hospitality setting at this time . no smoker want to harm people , but with second - hand smoke , they do . if people can smell smoke , they be inhale it . this be particularly important for child , pregnant woman and people with pre - exist health condition such as asthma or heart disease . the only way to stop this harm be to stop people smoke around other . while I understand hon . member ' proposal to list specific place in the Bill or to add additional limit to the use of the power , it be right that we consult on the detail before make regulation and have the necessary power to protect child and vulnerable people from the harm of second - hand smoking . I be grateful to the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , for their long - stand support for the Bill . through their amendment , they highlight the importance of retain a focus on support for current smoker . that be why we be invest an extra £ 70 million for local stop smoke service this year and work to ensure that all NHS hospital offer opt - out smoking cessation service into routine care . I hope they will be pleased that we have be able to confirm the extension of the swap to stop scheme for the come year , with up to £ 19 million of funding to provide free vape starter kit for smoker to use as quit aid . on the group of amendment relate to vape advertising , we realise that product be deliberately market at child be unacceptable , which be why we have include a commitment to stop vape be brand and advertise to child . the Government be also invest £ 10 million of new funding for the come year for National Trading Standards to tackle underage illicit tobacco and vape and to boost the trading standard workforce by recruit 80 new apprentice , provide additional boot on the ground . trading standard be really important and obviously , therefore , so be fix penalty notice , so will the Minister support amendment 1 , which would mean that any fix penalty notice sum will be retain by local authority to spend on public health , thus save the NHS money , as she mention early ? as the hon . Member will know , there be already measure in the Bill that allow some of the fine to be retain — they can certainly be retain to make it cost - neutral for local authority — but I be sure we will explore that issue later on . the Bill contain regulation - make power on a range of aspect of product requirement that already allow we to do many thing that hon . member seek to achieve , but I look forward to listen to the contribution to today ' s debate on the wide list of amendment and to respond to the point that be make . I call the Opposition spokesperson . it be now a truth universally acknowledge that smoking be bad for one ' s health . it be the lead cause of preventable death in this country , responsible for over 80 , 000 death every year . when we say that number , it be easy to allow it to trip off the tongue as another statistic without really realise just how many people it represent . for each of they — such as my Nana Burton , who be a smoker and who die of lung cancer — there be a personal story of damaged health and often an early and preventable death . the conservative party introduce a Bill base on a similar premise to this one in the last Parliament , although the Government have make significant change since to the legislation , include take a power that could be use to ban smoking and vaping in pub garden , as well as a licensing scheme for tobacco product . on amendment 85 , while we have receive repeat assurance that the Secretary of State intend to use the measure in the Bill only to improve public health , we must still examine whether the legislation be proportionate and reasonable . as far as I can see , it give the Secretary of State enormous power to extend the smokefree legislation to any place with minimal oversight and without need to provide a reason . there be whisper last summer that the Government be consider ban smoking in pub garden , before they hastily withdraw this provision in the face of public backlash . if only they would withdraw more of their policy in the face of public backlash , because perhaps then we would not be in the situation we be in now . the Bill empower the Secretary of State to extend smokefree and vape - free regulation to more place — essentially , to any place — with the aim of reduce exposure to second - hand smoke and promote public health . however , on Second read the Government do not accept our amendment that it should apply only to place that have a provable significant risk to public health to justify such a ban . for that reason , I commend amendment 85 once again , which would restrict the Secretary of State to be able to designate only open or unenclosed space outside a hospital , a child ' s playground , a nursery school , a college or a high education premise as a smokefree area . those be the area the Secretary of State have say he want to target , and the amendment would prevent any targeting of other area , such as pub garden , by the back door . while he claim that that be not his intention now , that may not remain the case for the rest of this Government ' s time in office , nor indeed for any future Government . that be the risk in allow these measure to stand , and for those reason I encourage the House to support amendment 85 . 3 . 15 pm on new clause 18 and amendment 89 , the new Bill also give power to the Secretary of State to introduce a new licensing scheme for retailer sell tobacco , vaping or nicotine product . however , we know that licensing scheme will come at a cost , to business and local authority that will administer they , and in enforcement . that do not make it the wrong thing to do , but we would need to make sure that any licensing scheme be not excessively burdensome or expensive . new clause 18 and amendment 89 would therefore require the Government to consult on the new licensing scheme for tobacco sale before it come into force . that would mean that the view and impact on business include small business be hear , and ensure that council and trading standard have the capacity to deliver such a scheme . ultimately , there be a balance to strike between the requirement on business and public health , and a public consultation would ensure that the Government be more likely to get that balance right . on new clause 19 , another concern we have hear from those who oppose the Bill be about the impact that the legislation would have on the black market . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs estimate that the illicit market in tobacco duty and related vat be £ 2 . 8 billion in 2021 - 22 , with the tobacco duty tax gap remain broadly unchanged since 2015 , while in 2023 the Chartered Trading Standards Institute estimate that a staggering one in three vape product be non - compliant . give warning that increase the age requirement for tobacco product and prohibit more vaping could expand the black market economy far , it be sensible to take precaution to tackle the issue . specifically on new clause 19 , do my hon . friend agree that it be inevitable that the generational smoking ban will lead to an increase in the illegal tobacco market and that that be a highly regrettable consequence of the Bill ? that be certainly a significant possibility , and that be the reason for move the amendment , as my hon . friend will understand . illegal product can include smuggle and counterfeit cigarette , vape with nicotine level way above the legal limit , and product contain illegal and potentially dangerous ingredient . they can be more harmful and may not include the appropriate labelling requirement and health warning that genuine product have to carry . regardless of whether colleague support or oppose this Bill as a whole , I be sure we all agree that a black market be unacceptable . we have therefore put forward an amendment that would require the Government to produce annual report on the rate of sale and availability of illegal tobacco and vaping product and their impact on public health and safety . my hon . friend have rightly take a fierce line on illegal tobacco sale in Lincolnshire . do she acknowledge that those illegal tobacco sale be often link to serious and organised crime ? the shop that sell they be often link to money laundering — and be usually foreign own , by the way — and the damage they do be extreme . will she join I in urge further action by Government to support trading standard and the local police , who be do such a fine job in try to clamp down on this industrial - scale crime ? as be usually the case , I find myself agree with my right hon . friend , and that be of course why we have table the amendment : it will give we the evidence that we and the enforcement authority require to make sure that the black market be reduce . do my hon . friend accept that there be not a risk that a black market will open , because a significant black market in tobacco already exist ? in 2021 , some 23 . 6 billion cigarette be sell under duty , whereas in 2024 the figure be 13 . 2 billion , a 44 % reduction . yet an action on Smoking and Health survey have find that smoking have reduce by only 0 . 5 % . the black market be already here — it be not a new thing that will be create — so the Bill present an even great risk . my hon . friend make a fair point . we know the black market exist , but the amendment would enable the Government to understand the scale of that black market and the change in it , so that regulation could be enforce more robustly . on amendment 90 , as currently draft the legislation will ban all form of advertising of nicotine and non - nicotine vape , nicotine product and sponsorship that promote those product . advert will no long be permit on poster , billboard or the side of bus , and sport team will be prevent from be sponsor by a vape company . as a Member of Parliament and a child ' s doctor , I have be very concerned by the sharp increase in child addict to vaping and , more recently , the other nicotine product such as pouch that have begin to flood the market . schoolteacher have report that child be unable to concentrate or even to complete a whole lesson without visit the bathroom to vape . action to tackle the rise in vaping be welcome , and I support step that restrict the appeal of vape to young people , include through flavour and packaging . however , as the Minister mention in her opening speech , vaping can be a useful smoking cessation tool for adult smoker try to quit ; in my view , that should be their only purpose . within the context of propose advertising restriction , amendment 90 would ensure that vape that be target solely as a quit aid , to help adult stop smoking , can continue , in recognition of their role in bring down smoking rate . finally , new clause 20 would introduce a requirement on online vaping product to operate an age verification policy , as be currently the case in Scotland . whether someone be buy vaping product online or in store , robust provision must be in place to ensure that the purchaser be of legal age , and business must have a robust policy in place . as we have see through recent tragedy , the age verification process for online sale on age - restrict product have not always be effective . the new clause would be an important step towards protect child from access product online that they should not be able to buy . in closing , the conservative party have a strong record of action on tobacco control . it be under a Conservative Government that plain packaging be introduce for all tobacco product and that minimum pack size for cigarette and rolling tobacco be introduce — policy that have be demonstrably effective at reduce smoking rate . I have personally campaign passionately on the issue of tobacco and vape for over two year , and I be pleased that some of my original amendment to the Bill have make it beyond Committee stage and be with we today . I be also glad to see some of the new Government amendment introduce on Report that be bear of debate we have in Committee , which have strengthen the Bill . our amendment be design to highlight some of the difficulty in the Bill . we oppose the Government ' s power - grab — create power to ban smoking and vape wherever they choose by regulation , but without consultation or enough notice . we have concern about how the Bill will operate in practice , especially the burden on small business , and the potential for unintended consequence , such as a growth in the black market for tobacco product , so we ask that the Government seriously consider our amendment today . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , to her role . it be a great pleasure to speak in the debate and to support this genuinely world - lead piece of public health legislation , which will help to consign smoking to the history book . unless we act to help people to stay healthy , the rise tide of ill health in our society threaten to overwhelm our NHS . pare back public health , as the last Government do , be the definition of penny wise , pound foolish . it be vital that we tackle the cause of ill health , not just the symptom , so that we can save the taxpayer billion of pound and , most importantly , save life . we know that prevention be well than cure . as we have hear today , smoking remain the single big preventable cause of ill health in our country , cause 80 , 000 death a year . it be responsible for one in four cancer death , and it be a factor in over 70 % of lung cancer case . in my own constituency alone , nearly 12 , 000 people smoke . they be more likely to leave the workforce due to ill health . many will suffer stroke , heart attack and condition such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . on average , they will lose 10 year of life expectancy . however , the real tragedy be how many thousand of those smoker will have start when they be child , when they do not know any well , and have simply never be able to quit . Most smoker report wish that they have never start , which be why it be incumbent on we all to support this legislation to help stop the start . accord to ASH , in my constituency alone the cost of smoking exceed £ 90 million every year , include £ 56 million in lose productivity , £ 4 million drain from the NHS and £ 30 . 7 million in social care . the cost of smoking to our society be enormous , and that be why it be time to stub it out . even today , in 2025 , hundred of young people a day take the first drag of a habit they will never manage to kick , and will regret for the rest of their life . I be proud to lead the opposition ' s response to the last government ' s Bill through Committee in the last Parliament and , as I say then , there be no freedom in addiction . it be a shame that the leader of the conservative party allow her ideology to blind she from that fact when she vote against the legislation in the last Parliament , and against this Bill in this one . where the last Government fail to get their Tobacco and Vapes Bill over the line , this Government will get the job do . I be proud that the Government have vastly improve on the legislation that the previous Government draw up . first , the introduction of a new licensing regime to cover tobacco and nicotine product , include vape , be hugely welcome . that be a key recommendation of the Khan review in 2022 , which the last government largely ignore and which retailer and the public overwhelmingly support , accord to survey conduct by ASH . the status quo , where there be no requirement to obtain a licence to sell those product , be a major gap in enforcement , particularly when we consider that the sale of alcohol be license , while nicotine and tobacco be not . secondly , I be pleased that the Government be take forward an amendment I table in Committee during the last Parliament , for the introduction of £ 200 on - the - spot fine for retailer sell product to under - age people . in 2019 to 2020 , 50 % of the council that undertake test purchasing report that cigarette or tobacco product be sell to child who be under 18 in at least one of their premise . that prove that the current regime be not enough of a deterrent . the introduction of new on - the - spot fine , which be double the amount propose by the previous Government , will be much easy to issue and much hard to ignore . do the Minister agree with I that double the fine be double the deterrent ? thirdly , I commend Ministers on the action they be take on vape . under the last government , youth vaping treble in two year . an estimated one in three vape on the market be illicit , and product often contain harmful chemical , heavy metal or even drug . gape loophole be leave to sit on the statute book for year , put child at risk . the promulgation of dangerous illicit vape in shop , school and on our street be a real concern . recently , in Birmingham , trading standard officer and the police lead raid on retailer under Operation Cloud , when they seize nearly £ 6 million - worth of illicit vape , tobacco and drug . one raid alone , the big ever in Birmingham , claw £ 1 million - worth of good out of criminal ' hand . that show the extent of the problem of the illicit market and the incredible job that council trading standard team do to keep the public safe . I thank the Government for get behind trading standard with a £ 10 million boost to support their work next year . in particular , I welcome the new Government ' s introduction of clause to this Bill to set up a testing regime for vape , a proposal that I champion in the last Parliament . it be shock that under the current rule , unlike with tobacco , there be no testing regime for vape product . that mean that dodgy product can be rubber - stamp by the british regulator and wind up on our shelf , undermine the valuable enforcement work that trading standard do to identify and seize un - notify product . as testing of vape market at young people have show , a significant proportion of vaping product be not what they say they be . some market themselves as 0 % nicotine when they be not , lead to accidental addiction ; other contain harmful substance , such as heavy metal and even anti - freeze , as evidence by research undertake by Inter Scientific . that be why during the last Parliament I table amendment that would have establish a new testing regime for vape . unfortunately , the Conservatives vote they down . I commend Ministers for introduce power that the previous Government snub . nearly 3 million people have quit smoking use vape . clearly vape have a role to play in the transition to a smokefree future , but if they be to be use as stop - smoke aid , we need confidence that the product people buy be safe , which be what routine testing would do . finally , I commend the Government on the amendment that have strengthen this Bill ; they close the loophole on vape vend machine and ban vape advertising , promotion and sponsorship . the new clause will ensure that these product be keep away from the impressionable eye of young people , so that the next generation be not simply substitute one nicotine addiction for another . there be significant hole in the last Government ' s plan , and I be glad that the new Government be slam they shut . the health crisis face our country have never be confine to the running of its hospital ward , doctor ' surgery and dental practice . we be a sicker nation , and that public health challenge need confront . life expectancy be extend by three and a half year over the course of the last Labour Government , but in the 14 year under the Tories , it grow by just four month . in this Bill , we see the epitome of the future - face approach that only a Labour Government can deliver . by stop the start and ensure that the next generation never develop an addiction to nicotine , we can protect their health and wellbeing and protect our NHS for many year to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for her opening remark and add my broad support for the improvement that the Government have make to the Bill . I will restrict my comment mainly to amendment 1 and 2 , which have be table in my name and the name of my hon . friend the Members for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) and for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) . I will also comment on new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , to which I have add my name . amendment 1 and 2 would direct the money raise from fix penalty notice to public health initiative choose by the relevant local authority . the Liberal Democrats agree with the Secretary of State and the Government that prevention be well than sickness and cure , and that public health initiative be crucial in make those key shift in healthcare that we all hope to achieve . the Secretary of State hope to create a smokefree generation for those bear after 1 January 2009 , but there will be exist smoker who may well wish to stop , and who may need help from a public health initiative or a smoking cessation programme to do so . the Conservatives cut public health budget by a quarter since 2015 , mean that few people have have help to quit . that be not what anybody hope to achieve through this legislation or , more broadly , the reform to the NHS . research by University College London show that in part of England , smoking rate have begin to rise again , and they have be flatline as a whole since 2020 . between 2020 and 2024 , the rate rise by 10 % in southern England and fall by 9 . 7 % in the north . overall , an estimate 7 . 5 million adult in England be smoker . UCL conclude that the disparity between north and south reflect the concentration of dedicated tobacco control programme in northern region and their positive impact , and their relative absence in the south . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , mention , there be also evidence of significant black market activity in the United Kingdom . cessation activity have therefore become even more important to deprive the criminal gang involve of fund , and to ensure that people be free of their grip . give the impact of public health initiative , I sincerely urge the Government to accept Liberal Democrat amendment 1 , and consequential amendment 2 , which be in line with the Government ' s objective , and would improve health and save taxpayer money in the long run . amendment 84 , which be also in my name , be very similar to the Opposition ' s amendment 85 . it would restrict the ability of the Secretary of State to unreasonably designate a place as a smokefree area . if they do not mind I say so , the Conservatives have be a bit sloppy in draft their amendment , because they have manage to remove protection in exist law for area where there be a significant risk of second - hand smoke in smokefree area . the Liberal Democrats ' amendment 84 have an add safeguard : if the chief scientific officer — that be not easy for I to say — advise that there be a significant risk of second - hand smoke , an area can be designate as smokefree . the amendment also retain mention of the area that the Secretary of State have indicate that he will designate as smokefree , include NHS premise , school , educational establishment and child ' s playground . the Secretary of State have indicate that he will not designate other area as smokefree , particularly if it would have a detrimental impact on our already struggle hospitality industry and much - love village pub . we take he at his word on that commitment , but I hope that the Minister can imagine a future in which a different Secretary of State be less inclined to honour a promise make by someone else at the Dispatch Box . it be right and in good order that in that scenario , Parliament should get a vote on the change of heart . I urge the Government to consider this amendment carefully and ensure that the legislation match the promise make at the Dispatch Box . new clause 1 , which I have also add my name to , would require the Secretary of State to review and report back on the presence of contaminate vape , and to find way to reduce their prevalence . my hon . friend the Member for Bath have campaign on this issue follow finding by the University of Bath that one in six vape in english school contain the drug Spice , which can have serious side effect in child , include cardiac arrest . it seem reasonable that the Department of Health and Social Care and the Secretary of State should try to find a way of address that issue . I intend to push amendment 1 and 2 to a vote to ensure that there be additional funding for public health measure . I very much hope that hon . and right hon . member will support I in this common - sense move to improve public health . I begin by declare an interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . I will speak to my amendment and one or two other . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be world - lead health legislation that will create the first smokefree generation , protect child and young people from the harm of smoking . in the City of Durham alone , some 5 , 500 child start smoke each year . Most of they will go on to wish that they have never start . this Bill will end that . it will stop the start and ensure that every child have a smokefree future . recent datum from UCL have show that the rate of smoking be fall fast in the north - east . this can at least partly be attribute to hard work and amazing regional programme such as Fresh , which work so hard to tackle inequality in our region . the same datum also show that progress be not guarantee ; in some area , smoking rate appear to be increase . the case for action be clear . new clause 13 , in my name , would put a duty on the Secretary of State to publish a road map to a smokefree country every five year . it be a Labour Government who introduce the first - ever smoking strategy in 1998 , " Smoking Kills " . it be 2025 , and smoking still kill . this world - lead Bill be to be celebrate for many reason , but the rise age of sale will not impact the 6 million people who be currently smoke in the UK . smoking be not spread equally across our society ; the most affluent 10 % be set to become smokefree this year . however , at the current rate , the most deprive will not achieve that until 2050 . it be vital that the Government ensure that no one be leave behind as we create a smokefree future . have a clear plan for achieve that , and target for reduce smoking not only for the whole population , but for pregnant woman , those struggle with their mental health and those in occupation with high rate of smoking , will save life . will the Minister meet the all - party parliamentary group follow the publication of our report to discuss how we can turbocharge reduction in smoking and create the smokefree generation ? new clause 19 , table by the Conservatives , would require the Secretary of State to publish report on the illicit market . let we be clear that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs already publish annual datum with a detailed analysis of the illicit market , so it be difficult to see what the Department of Health and Social Care could do in addition . there be no additional data source available that would yield any different result . finally , amendment 82 and 83 would remove the exemption for performer . since 2007 , it have be against the law to smoke inside . however , that do not apply to actor smoke in performance for artistic reason . there be a play on in London ' s west end that tell the story of the american oil lobbyist and master strategist Don Pearlman . Don Pearlman be a heavy smoker who die from complication arise from lung cancer . the actor play the lead role smoke on stage . the exemption should be remove , because actor deserve to have their health protect at work as much as everyone else . audience and other actor also deserve to be protect from second - hand smoke . performance at the National Theatre already require that smoking in performance be substitute for vaping or other alternative . there be no reason why all performance should not follow suit . amendment 85 and 86 deal with smokefree extension . I know that there will be further consultation and debate on the regulation create extension to smokefree place and vape - free area , but can the Minister confirm that there will be exemption if it be show that the use of vape in certain setting aid smoke cessation effort ? I be think of , for example , mental health setting . the Mental Health and Smoking Partnership have point out that vape be a valuable tool in such setting to help patient quit . will the Minister undertake to visit a mental health trust to hear directly about people ' s experience ? it be vital that we all work with trust to provide clear guidance on how to navigate these change . particular attention must be pay to how the policy in the Bill , and those that will come into effect after it , such as the disposable vape ban in June , will interact with each other . today ' s funding announcement be welcome , but we have go down to the wire , give that the funding be due to end at the end of this month . can we be reassure that , follow the spending review , service can expect consistent , long - term funding that will allow they to plan their activity and hire staff on long contract ? the Bill present we with a historic opportunity to transform public health in this country , and , after work tirelessly on it for more than a decade , I be proud to support it . however , we must remain vigilant to ensure that no one be leave behind . all aspect of the Bill , from the smoking cessation measure to protection for worker in the art , must be fully realise if we be to create a truly smokefree generation . I think you may agree , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the long we spend in this job , the more we realise that almost nothing be ever straightforward . even the good intention nearly always have unintended consequence , and there be absolutely no doubt that smoking , and specifically smoke tobacco , have do untold damage in my constituency and continue to do so . the health of my constituent have suffer as a result of the well - document effect of regular smoking , and , moreover , smoking be a driver of social and economic inequality . smoker earn , on average , 7 % less than non - smoker . I could not believe that statistic when I first read it , but when I think about it , I realise that it make complete sense . those who take more time off work because of the inevitable ill - health effect of smoking , those who spend more of their disposable income on tobacco , and those who develop a dependency on a drug such as nicotine will obviously experience , over time , an impact on their earning . smoking be like an extra tax on the most disadvantaged community , and I can see why this Government have maintain the last government ' s ambition to phase it out . I agree with everything that my hon . friend be say about smoking , but the elephant in this room be the dramatic decline in legal tobacco sale . accord to HMRC , they have decline by 44 % since 2021 , while the number of smoker have decline by only 0 . 5 % . we be reach a stage at which we be tax cigarette so heavily that we be fuel the black market and criminality , and we have to be aware that , as my hon . Friend say , these be unintended consequence . it be almost as if my right hon . friend have read what be write next on my piece of paper . I be about to say that unfortunately we do not live in a perfect world , even our noble ambition have unintended consequence , and the Bill be not a silver bullet . there be already a thriving black market for tobacco in Gosport , and I be extremely concerned about the possibility that prohibition will exacerbate the problem . I be keen to hear from the Minister what action she plan to take , alongside the phase prohibition , to provide proper resource for the police force in Hampshire and the rest of the country to ensure that the law be uphold , and what plan she have to take on the criminal who be already profit , and who will only profit more as the age at which a person can legally buy tobacco rise . even without the Bill , smoking rate be fall across the UK as a result of a number of policy intervention , include education , smoke support and awareness campaign . I recently visit a company in Gosport that provide innovative smoking cessation support . it be a vape company , but it have a partnership with Mid and South Essex NHS foundation trust , which signpost smoker to its store , where they be give continue support to far enhance their shift away from tobacco . Hampshire county council have a similar Smokefree Hampshire scheme , which it say contribute to 500 quit per year . intervention such as these have prove to be successful , so have the Minister weigh up their merit against the possible implication of the Bill ? I want to talk mainly about new clause 2 , which have be table in my name . in a rare example of thing genuinely be as simple as they seem , the new clause would simply ban the use of plastic filter in cigarette . the debate today will largely focus on the public health benefit of ban smoking — improve cancer rate , for example — and rightly so , and I have to be very clear that ban plastic filter will do absolutely nothing for public health . it will , however , make a great deal of difference to the thousand of my constituent who bathe or swim in the Solent , and to the marine life there . over 2 million cigarette butt be litter or drop in the Gosport constituency , and that figure will be replicate in every constituency across the country . it be litter that we be all pay to clean up : it cost a local council on average about £ 40 million a year . inevitably , many cigarette butt be flush into our waterway , our river and our sea . in fact , they account for 66 % of all litter item in the UK : it be pretty grim . Cigarette stub can take about 14 year to degrade in the marine environment , so it be unpleasant to swim around Stokes bay , at the end of my road , among little piece of discolour plastic . the big threat , though , be to the environment . one cigarette butt leave to soak in water for 96 hour will release enough toxin to kill half the saltwater or freshwater fish that be expose to it , and 40 % of the chemical contain in cigarette butt leachate have be find to be either toxic or very toxic to marine life . there be even a chance that the slow degradation of plastic butt be contribute to the rise in the microplastic increasingly find in the human body . Marine ecosystem such as the Solent seascape , which cover 52 , 000 hectare of coastal and marine habitat , include the Titchfield haven in my constituency , be precious . we have speak at length over many year about the impact of sewage in our waterway , but we now need to talk about the impact of plastic . that project aim to reverse loss of biodiversity in the Solent , which will have all kind of benefit , include tourism and nature - base solution to flooding . seagrass installation rely on a very delicate ecosystem , which include thrive fish population , but leach toxin from plastic cigarette butt put those population at risk . some large company have already demonstrate that it be easy to make the switch in production require to accommodate such a change in the law . biodegradable filter already exist . it have be six year since McDonald ' s make a decision to switch to paper straw , for example , but biodegradable filter , unlike paper straw , work and make no discernible difference to the user experience . that explain why polling suggest that this measure be support by 86 % of UK adult . new clause 2 would represent a huge step towards remove 3 . 9 billion cigarette butt from our ecosystem , combat the blight on our beach and street , the stain in our stream and the rubbish on our road . it be an environmental no - brainer . it be also a parliamentary no - brainer , as it have massive public support . I hope the Government can see the merit in support it today . I declare an interest as an officer of the APPG on responsible vaping . I be ask by a teenage member of my family over the Christmas break what my big regret be , and I undoubtedly go back to the evening at an empty — a party , for anybody unaware of the scottish parlance — back in 2016 , when I first take a draw off a cigarette . I know all too well the addictive power of nicotine , and I promise when I be send here by the people of Falkirk in July that I would do everything I could to prevent another generation from be so easily expose to it . sadly , I must say that some of the amendment propose may jeopardise that near universally support ambition in our community . there be no safe way to consume nicotine , and we have know for near a century that smoke tobacco will in the long term be incredibly damaging to the health of a person . if we pass this Bill and slowly but surely cut off the tobacco industry from new customer , we will see low occurrence of cancer , few heart attack , few stroke and less illness in our community . point raise by hon . member about the black market be important , and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response , but they do not undermine my support for the generational ban in this Bill . for all the reason articulate , I do not support the various attempt in amendment to alter the generational smoking ban . in Committee , I see an attempt to alter the scope of the Bill to set the age of sale at 25 . I see similar attempt on the amendment paper to change the age of sale to 21 , or to scrap the generational smoking ban altogether . I doubt it will come as a surprise to my constituent , who be well aware of my leaning , but for I the freedom for our bairn eventually to be allow to smoke something that may ultimately kill they do not fall into the philosophical sphere of inalienable liberty . say that , I will don the cloak of alternatively minded colleague momentarily . for all but the last three day in Committee , I be 24 year old . the shift in the age of sale propose in Committee would have deprive I of a liberty I already have and that regrettably I exercise extensively in my young year . deprive adult of their liberty in the name of liberty do strike I as an odd argument for opponent of a generational smoking ban . this generational smoking ban do not deprive anyone of a liberty they currently hold , but shift tobacco into the category of inaccessible substance for those who never have , or will have , the right to begin with . the " liberty for our bairn to eventually be able to start smoke " campaign would get short shrift from parent at the school gate of Falkirk , or from those sit at the bedside of love one die decade prematurely . no smoker want their bairn to start smoke . there be grow concern about the use of vape as a tool to entice child into sexual exploitation . my probe amendment , new clause 5 , be prompt by a police officer in Derby concerned about this national issue . I be grateful to the Minister for meet I to discuss it . do my hon . friend agree that we must acknowledge the use of vape to groom child , and ensure that licensing authority and the police work together to crack down on any retailer connect to such activity ? my hon . friend identify an important point about the protection of young people , and I would be very interested to hear the Minister address it in her wind up . Non - smoker should never vape , but we should acknowledge that vaping can help a hell of a lot of smoker to quit , and that the evidence base we have on relative harm show that vaping be far less harmful than tobacco smoking . the consolidation of vape into a more utilitarian device use solely for the cessation of smoking be something we should pursue . that necessitate measure that stop the worrying rise in young people get their hand on vape in the first place . during evidence in Committee , Trading Standards articulate that online age gating have a far low failure rate than sale over the counter . we hear from various source about how vape be still far too easy for our bairn to get their hand on through proxy or underage counter purchase . there be still work to be do to put the onus on the vaping industry to safeguard our bairn . that why I put my name to new clause 6 and new clause 7 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) . they would permit the Secretary of State to make regulation mandate vape retailer to sell only vape that include approve age - gate technology , allow adult to lock their vape and prevent bairn be able to use they . that would align with and strengthen the Bill ' s objective of deter underage use by seek to extend protection away from the point of sale to the point of use . I will ask Ministers to commit to meet I and the all - party parliamentary group to discuss how age - gate technology and wide measure can be support in the United Kingdom to strengthen the shared aim we all have to stop bairn vape . the Bill grant the Secretary of State similar power to bring in regulation relate to the display , packaging and flavour of vape . on that , I will make a few brief point . the Bill should not deter smoker switch to vape . flavour be a huge reason why smoker quit and stick by quit , and we should not regulate in any way that undermine the crucial message we must get to stick with adult smoker , which be that vaping have a far low relative harm than continue to smoke . if we can , across this House , acknowledge the scientific consensus that there be no non - harmful consumption of tobacco , the Bill should be support . it be time to take a step that will do a substantial amount to deter smoking , prevent nicotine addiction and secure a generation against smoking - relate disease and premature death . I hesitate to break up the consensus ever so slightly , but I do disagree fundamentally with the Bill . in my view , a generational smoking ban misrepresent the proper relationship between the state and the individual , and create two tier of adult . member will be hearten to know that , recognise the will of the House on Second Reading , I do not intend to plough on with that argument too far . what I have try to do with my amendment , however , be to genuinely improve the main aim of the Bill in a way that get people off smoke in the interest of public health , which , whether we be for or against a generational ban on smoking , be something that we should all support . that be why I be grateful to member from across this House — on the Government Benches , the liberal Democrat Benches and the Democratic Unionist Benches , as well as some independent member — for support the measure in my name , new clause 8 , 9 and 10 and amendment 46 . the message behind those measure be simple : let we ensure less harmful vape and nicotine product get to the adult smoker who could benefit from they so that smoking rate continue to fall . in that regard , I associate myself with some of the remark make by the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) and for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . I feel the risk of the Bill be that Ministers may inadvertently weaken the decline in smoking in Britain somewhat . as the Minister and shadow Minister both say in their opening remark , vaping be a legitimate and desirable smoking cessation tool for adult who currently smoke . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I associate myself with much of what he have say already . he will understand that when plain packaging be introduce , just that kind of inadvertent effect be feel , as those who wish to counterfeit tobacco product be able to do so at will , use plain packaging that look no different from legal tobacco packaging . I thank my right hon . friend for his remark , and also associate myself with the same remark from my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . we have to be a little careful about the inadvertent effect of what might be the goodwill of all of we in this House . regardless of how one see the state ' s role in this matter , we should all welcome the decrease in smoking in this country from the high of almost 30 % in the early 2000s to 11 . 6 % today . we have to recognise that that be partly due to education , partly to do with social stigma and partly because of legislation that this House have bring forward . we should also acknowledge , however , the essential role that the free market have play , particularly with vape and other non - tobacco product , in get adult smoker to stop smoke . there be still 6 million smoker in this country , and none of they will come under the umbrella of the generational ban . we therefore need to ensure that there be safe alternative out there for they . in my view , the Bill as currently draft risk hang those smoker out to dry by treat vape and nicotine product — although they be not include in the ban — in the same way as cigarette be treat , which be a false equivalence that be not back by the science . sit on the Public Bill Committee , I realise how prevalent the view be among the public that vape and other smoking cessation tool , such as non - combustible tobacco , be as bad as cigarette , when in reality vape be at least 95 % safe than cigarette , accord to Public Health England and Dr Khan ' s independent review — look at any smoking cessation website to find a similar message . any smoker know how difficult it be to go cold turkey , and less dangerous off - ramp like vape can be a lifeline for those look for a way out of cigarette . in fact , in many aspect , the NHS actively promote such tool through its swap to stop scheme , and have find that almost two third of people who vape alongside use a stop smoke service quit smoking . what concern I primarily be the blanket ban approach to marketing , particularly for vape and nicotine product , which my new clause 8 and 9 would address . I know that many across this House have support the new clause and share those concern . although I totally support the need to stop disposable , rainbow , candy floss - flavour vape be aim at child — that be absolutely unacceptable — adult smoker do need to know that there be a safe alternative to cigarette . on that concern , many smoker now believe vape to be as dangerous as cigarette . Cancer Research UK have find that 57 % of adult smoker think that vaping be just as harmful , if not more harmful , than smoke cigarette . the risk of a draconian approach to vaping , as I consider the Bill to take , will only reinforce that incorrect messaging , which be damaging to public health . by permit marketing in limited circumstance and under strict restriction , as my new clause aim to do , we can get the message to the 6 million adult smoker that there be a safe alternative out there . indeed , the Government ' s own impact assessment recognise the risk of the " health impact of few people use vape and nicotine product to quit smoking . " I say respectfully to the Minister that this should set off alarm bell in Government . that be what new clause 8 do . it simply ask the Government to have a proper consultation on the potential impact of a marketing ban , dig deep than the sparse bullet point currently give to it in the impact assessment . this would allow we to listen to the consumer who actively use these product and find out how these change will impact they . in the Public Bill Committee , the consumer voice be largely absent . restriction on flavour and packaging and vape - free area be already subject to consultation and this amendment would simply bring marketing in line with that . a deep consideration of the impact of the marketing ban would help we maintain our progress towards a smoke - free 2030 and allow the Government the opportunity to prevent the unintended consequence of the Bill . education through marketing be one of the good tool the Government have at their disposal , so why not wield the free market to effect real social change and let vape company do the leg work ? far , if new clause 9 be to be include in the Bill , every single non - cigarette nicotine product would have to have a print warning at the Secretary of State ' s discretion . this could say something like , " strictly for adult smoker . " we could even use the chief medical officer ' s own word , " if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape . " this would send a clear message about the purpose of vape , without stop they from get into the hand of smoker who could benefit from they . in the Bill Committee , many raise the issue that any advertising see by adult would inevitably be see by child . that be why I table amendment 46 , which would avoid this problem by permit advertising in adult - only environment such as pub , bar and club . to I , that be just common sense . if we know that everyone be 18 , be no good reason why advertising of these product should not be permit . far , we know that these night - time venue be often hotspot for smoking . these be the people who could benefit from tobacco - free product the most . if a vape or a nicotine pouch be advertise in this location , a smoker may well think twice before go to the local newsagent to buy cigarette . this would work especially well if the same pub be license to sell these product on the premise . I urge the Government , through these amendment , to reconsider their approach to advertising when it come to legitimate smoking - cessation tool . my recent write question to the Department expose that either no real assessment have be do in this area of policy or it have be obscure . specifically on amendment 46 , which I have a degree of sympathy for , who would be responsible for enforce the advertisement and ensure that it be only those over the age of 18 who be see they ? I be assume , to be honest , that it would be the same people who be responsible for the licensing of alcohol advertising . all my amendment speak to the principle that I have outline , which I think be consistent with the aim of the Bill , and for which I have receive support from across the House . I hope that member both in here and in the other place will recognise the value of my amendment and that the Government will take these concern seriously . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for responsible vaping , I have follow the progress of the Bill closely . I will speak to new clause 4 , 6 , 7 and 15 , as well to amendment 36 , 37 and 88 , all of which stand in my name . I congratulate the Minister on her appointment and on step up so wonderfully to help move the Bill forward today . youth vaping be an enormous public health challenge that form one of the Government ' s central message in the Bill . all of we in this place will have hear concern from teacher and parent about the prevalence of youth vaping , and the challenge that school face in tackle it . the Bill set out to reduce the appeal of vape to child , but a delicate and calculated approach must be take when address youth vaping . in address one problem , it be incumbent on we all as legislator to not give rise to another — in this case , deter tobacco smoker from make the switch . we still have more than 6 million smoker to reach , and vaping be 95 % safe than smoke , accord to King ' s College hospital and the former body Public Health England , and it be the most successful tool to help smoker to quit . accord to datum from Action on Smoking and Health , 3 million adult vaper be ex - smoker . there be hard yard that we still have to take to reach smoker , and I fear that the Bill , at present , be lose sight of what the evidence base say about the relative harm . Vape flavour can play a significant role in passporte adult towards a less harmful alternative . I be pleased to see in the response to a write question I table that the Government recognise that flavour be a consideration for adult smoker seek to quit . the previous Public Health Minister , the hon . member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) , say that " it be important we strike the balance between restrict vape flavour to reduce their appeal to young people , whilst ensure vape remain available for adult smoker as a smoking cessation tool . " a study lead by the University of Bristol last year find that flavour restriction could discourage adult from use e - cigarette to help they quit smoking . amendment 37 , which stand in my name , seek to strike a balance between ban flavour descriptor , which would remove flavour that deliberately appeal to child such as gummy bear and bubble gum , and allow adult to use their smoking cessation product of choice . stick on product requirement , amendment 36 would empower Ministers to regulate the design and interoperability of product in order to prohibit the sale of very high - puff count vaping device . these product be typically cheap per puff , contain significantly more vape liquid and plastic content than other device , and have a specific youth appeal . in January , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs release new guidance outline what can be consider a reusable product , aim to prevent the retail of vape with superficial charging and refill feature . I believe that this should be put on a statutory footing to ensure its consistent and effective application . the Bill should be amend to clearly stipulate " one device , one tank " to prevent irresponsible actor from flood the UK with these product follow the disposable ban . new clause 6 and 7 , which stand in my name , would introduce a requirement for retailer in England and Wales to include age verification at the point of use . while the Bill seek to tackle youth appeal , a fundamental issue be leave unaddresse . once a vaping product leave a shop , there be no barrier to its be use by child , but technology against this already exist . I meet with IKE Tech LLC , a company that have develop low - cost , Bluetooth - enable chip that pair with a mobile app for secure identity verification . its technology also include geofencing , which can disable device in certain area , such as school . the new clause would harness the potential that innovation have to offer to address youth vaping accessibility head - on . turn to advertising , new clause 15 would create a limited and tightly define exemption from the new advertising restriction for in - store promotional material in specialist vape shop , provide that these be not externally visible and that they meet any condition around health warning set by Ministers . I be fearful of a situation where specialist tobacconist be give exemption to the restriction set out under clause 114 to 118 but specialist vape shop be not . these vape store provide adult smoker with important advice and product consultation in their journey away from tobacco , and I have see that in action . nicotine pouch be currently only regulate through the General Product Safety Regulations 2005 , mean that there be comparatively little regulation around these product , particularly regard nicotine strength . nicotine pouch with strength range from 70 mg to 150 mg be easily obtainable . there be a press need to limit the strength of nicotine to low level . new clause 4 , which stand in my name , would ban the manufacture and sale of pouch with more than 20 mg per pouch . this would eliminate the dangerous high - strength product while maintain a threshold that minimise adverse consequence arise from the restriction , such as smoking and illicit pouch . before make any regulation under part 5 of the Bill , amendment 88 would require the Secretary of State to consult " any person or body as appear to he or her representative of the interest concern " , instead of what be stipulate in the more limited current wording . the Bill provide Ministers with broad power to make further regulation . it be vital that these power be exercise in consultation with all relevant stakeholder , include public health expert , enforcement body , cessation specialist , retailer and industry . as chair of the APPG for responsible vaping , I hope that Ministers will be willing to engage in the come month as regulation be bring forward . People who do not smoke should not vape . but for those who do use tobacco , I believe that we have a duty to ensure that legislation effectively harness the power of vape as a smoking cessation tool . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) , and I congratulate she on her work on vape and combat illegal sale . I declare my interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for action on smoking and health for nine and a half year . I have see the work that the Conservative Government do to combat smoking , which lead to a dramatic drop , but we be not where we need to be . I commend the Minister and the Government on bring forward the Bill , and on absorb almost all the amendment that my colleague and I propose in the Bill Committee for the previous Bill to strengthen it and make it much more likely that we can achieve a smokefree England by 2030 . as have be say , the Bill will make we a world leader in tobacco control . we have always be at the forefront , but it consolidate regulation and limit the reach of the tobacco industry . we should be clear that tobacco be a uniquely lethal product that , when use as intend , kill two third of long - term user . above all else , it be highly addictive and hard to quit once people be addicted . Most smoker will say that they wish that they do not smoke and have never start , and that they have have their agency remove by their addiction . by pass this legislation , we be give choice back to young people in the future , who will avoid ever fall into that trap and the addiction that it bring . I have table a number of new clause . I think that the Minister be unlikely to accept they , but I commend they to she for further consideration . new clause 17 call on the Government to consult on the introduction of a " polluter pay " levy on the profit of the big tobacco industry . the all - party group have champion this campaign for many year . it be support by the Khan review , which be set up by the former Member for Bromsgrove to enable a position to be reach . almost all its recommendation be absorb by the Bill , as they be by the previous Bill , but some be outstanding . the " polluter pay " levy be one of they . it be support by charity , health organisation , academic and think - tank . tobacco consumption cost our society greatly . the late datum from Action on Smoking and Health estimate that smoking cost society in England alone £ 43 . 7 billion a year — far more than the £ 6 . 8 billion that be raise through tobacco taxis . that include £ 27 . 6 billion in lose economic productivity . we hear from the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for work and Pensions about reduce the cost of the welfare state . if we can stop people smoke , they will not become unhealthy and unable to work . they will be able to get back into the workforce and pay taxis rather than be in receipt of welfare . this be an opportunity to reduce the impact on the benefit system and improve productivity right across the UK . I commend the hon . gentleman on his excellent speech so far and his work over many year to reduce smoking prevalence in this country . do he agree that the tobacco company still make a huge margin on the tobacco that be sell , and therefore could easily afford the " polluter pay " levy that he propose ? I welcome that intervention from the vice - chair of the all - party group . as we have say , smoking be not a free choice ; it be an addiction peddle by an aggressive industry . I will come to some of the thing that the hon . Gentleman have say . a " polluter pay " levy would achieve three thing . first , it would raise approximately £ 700 million a year . that money would go to the Treasury and could be use for smoke cessation service that support people to quit , and indeed other health - relate matter . in fact , all the Government ' s programme on tobacco , include mass medium campaign , incentive for pregnant woman and support for worker with mental health problem , could be fund by that , and there would still be cash to spare for other service . that could go to other public health initiative to achieve the Government ' s aim of halve the gap in healthy life expectancy between the rich and poor , which the Minister outline early . secondly , it would allow the Government to have great control over the market . the combination of tobacco be highly addictive and four company have almost a monopoly in the UK lead to severe market failure . we tax tobacco , quite rightly , to incentivise quitting . however , the industry get around that because it just up the price , so the cost go on the consumer rather than on the profit that these company be make . when there be a tax hike , price on luxury brand go up even more and price be keep low on the budget one , which undermine the public health objective of tobacco taxation . as the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) say , the reality be that people on a low income often smoke more , and they will smoke the bad brand . minimum excise tax be put in place to address that problem , but the practice still exist , so great control be need . the levy model that we propose would give we the tool we need to end those practice and narrow the price gap between the most and least expensive product . we would expect that in itself to bring rate of smoke down , even before the revenue raise be invest in further programme . finally , a levy of this kind would correct a moral wrong . it be right and fair that the tobacco industry , and not the UK taxpayer , should pay for the damage that it have cause to our society . I repeat that the model would come directly from the industry ' s profit , which far exceed the norm for consumer product , as have be mention . the public support the measure , with 79 % of adult in Great Britain support a levy on the tobacco industry and only 5 % opposed . in the current fiscal environment — we discuss that early — where the Government be prepared to look at more controversial way to raise revenue , it be clear that they should consult on this proposal . if the Minister be not minded to accept this excellent idea today , would she take it to the Treasury and encourage participation on it ? new clause 16 — my second new clause — would introduce a ban on online sale , which be not currently cover under the Bill . I understand that that would be rather unique for the UK , as there be not currently a product available for sale in brick and mortar shop that can not be purchase online . however , we would by no mean be the first country to do so : Brazil , Mexico , Finland , our neighbour in France , and Greece , to name but a few , have all ban the sale of tobacco product via the internet . ban online sale be recommend in the Khan review and by the World Health Organisation , which argue that internet sale constitute a " point - of - sale display " and " inherently involve advertising and promotion " . indeed , we can look up tobacco product on any of the major supermarket ' website and see review such as : " quite nice for relax on a summer day , beside a bubble brook perhaps , or at a test match . " that be not align with the message that we want to impart to smoker . as a cricket fan , I very much doubt that any test match ground these day would allow people to light up in any case . it be important that we look to the implementation of the smokefree generation . with the right support and guidance , retailer will be able to implement the policy . however , will delivery driver for supermarket shop and Deliveroo driver , for example , be give the same level of training and information ? will they be as invest in enforce the age of sale as shop owner and other worker ? currently , online sale be not exploit by under - age individual attempt to circumvent the law . however , we must be mindful that that may happen in the future . in a country that be move ever close to become smokefree , should tobacco continue to be available and deliver to our door at the click of a button ? I think not . although I fully support the smokefree generation policy , I believe that it need to go far and that we need to create a nicotine - free future . nicotine be the drug that people become addicted to . the long - term effect of other nicotine product , such as snus and heated tobacco , be just as damaging and addictive . if we forbid their sale to anyone bear after 2009 , they would hopefully never know what it be like to experience nicotine and would never be stick in the vicious cycle of nicotine addiction . I also fear that legislate only for a smokefree society will leave opportunity for the tobacco industry to innovate and create new product , which we know it do all the time . the industry have target marketing at vulnerable people many time , and there be nothing to stop it do it again in order to monopolise a new market that harm people ' s health . that be why the legislation must be active and amendable . to prevent reopen the Bill in future year , we might as well kill two bird with one stone by ensure that there be no opportunity for nicotine to continue ruin people ' s life . we may need to consider that as the Bill progress through the Lords . to avoid duplicate what my colleague have say — and what they will no doubt go on to say — I will not go into depth on the amendment . I have add my name in support of new clause 13 and 14 , and amendment 86 and 87 . I also support the Government amendment . I thank the Government for adopt the Bill from the previous Conservative Government . I have be advocate for the Bill since I first enter this House back in 2010 . it be great that we be finally on the cusp of protect our future generation and our child ' s child . I urge Ministers to accept my amendment in the spirit in which I table they , to ensure that we cover all basis and leave no room for misinterpretation or for big tobacco to circumvent the measure . I commend the amendment and the Bill to the House . it be a pleasure to follow some of the speech that we have hear so far . I rise to support new clause 11 and the package of related amendment that the Government have table to this landmark Bill . I be privileged to serve on the Bill Committee for two reason : first , I have the pleasure of the company of colleague from across the House — albeit sometimes for more hour than one might care for on a Thursday evening — and secondly , and perhaps more importantly , this legislation will undoubtedly save life . on Second Reading , I talk about how the Bill will deliver on our Government ' s commitment to ensure that the next generation can never legally buy cigarette , create the first smokefree generation . as have be say , smoking be still the big cause of cancer and death . Tobacco be responsible for 160 cancer case per day in the UK , and 3 , 100 cancer case annually in Wales . new clause 11 and the associate grouping of amendment be welcome . as the Minister say , the purpose of those amendment be to ensure that , for example , the list of identity document keep up with innovation and accommodate the possibility of digital ID . that be to future - proof the Bill , as the Minister say . future - proofing have be mention in a couple of contribution today , and it come up in Committee , too , where the Opposition in particular expressed concern about the power that would be delegate to Ministers in order to bring into effect certain provision of the Bill . those power be need , because we need the Government of the day to be able to respond quickly and with agility to the innovation — I use that term sardonically — of the tobacco industry in find way around the rule that we will impose on it if the Bill proceed . a great deal of the debate have focus on vaping , on which I will focus the remainder of my remark . although I recognise the value of vaping in act as a smoking cessation tool for some , be it neither harmless nor some panacea , as I say on Second Reading and in Committee , and as colleague have say , too . there be much to welcome in the Bill in relation to vaping . the ban on the advertising of vape , and measure to curb youth vaping and regulate the use of vape , be example that we welcome . however , the reality be that , as have be say , vape among the youth have more than double . action on Smoking and Health estimate that as recently as 2023 , 20 . 5 % of child age 11 to 17 have try vape . that be an example of a powerful industry profit not just from cessation but from addiction , marketing vaping at child by switch their conveyor belt of customer to a new source . indeed , there be some alarming evidence that some vaper be not quit smoking but simply swap one addiction for another and many be become dual user . I welcome some of the contribution from colleague , but we must be very much alive to those danger . throughout the passage of the Bill and consistent with the Government ' s work in the realm of public health since they take office , vaping be regularly refer to as a smoking cessation tool . as have be mention , and as various chief medical officer from all our home nation have say , if someone smoke , vaping be much safe . although I accept that vaping be a helpful tool in the fight for well public health , it be regrettable that we do not have for vape the wealth of evidence over decade that underpin tobacco and the deadly consequence of smoking . we must therefore be clear on this : if someone do not smoke , they should not vape . vaping be not harmless ; it be just less harmful than smoke tobacco . public health policy must be base on evidence and not on spin from the industry . indeed , the power of big tobacco have be expand on by colleague . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I particularly like the way he sum up the inherent risk of vaping and his explanation that vaping could be helpful to people who wish to give up , but that at the same time there be a real threat to people who have never smoke or vape . do he agree that this matter need to be see in the wide context of issue at secondary and even primary school and of difference in public health outcome across community , with a need to focus resource on particular community — whether child or other — to try to help ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I trust the Minister will expand on that when she come to wind up the debate . as I say , public health policy must be base on evidence and not just spin or perception , so move forward , I urge the Government to ensure that as part of their work to implement the legislation , as well as promote vaping as a smoking cessation tool they must also undertake work to research the consequence of vape on both the physical and mental health of the individual , its financial impact and , as be say , any regional and national inequality that have become entrench by vape . when she come back to this matter in her wind - up , will the Minister also assure I that in so do she will work with the four home nation to ensure that that data be as thorough as possible ? if that research show , as I have no doubt it will , that vaping be significantly damaging to the nation ' s health — perhaps less so than smoking , but none the less still significantly damaging — we must act to curb it . we can not afford to wait decade and decade for that truth to come out in the way that it take decade for big tobacco to be find out . I would be grateful if the Minister could provide some reassurance on that point . in conclusion , I be proud to support this legislation . as have be say , there be no liberty in addiction and there be no freedom in be victim to a craving that kill . the Bill take an unprecedented step forward to curb that damage and I urge colleague from across the House to support it . I must declare an interest : I be a co - founder of Action on World Health . I have to say , I find the tone of moral superiority in the Chamber this afternoon almost unbearable . member clearly believe they be well human being than those outside who choose to pursue activity that member perhaps would not pursue . it would come as a bit of a shock , I suppose , to some in this Chamber , but there be some of we who like a smoke — we do . we even go for a few pint in a pub , we have a punt on the horse and I be even tempt to have the odd doughnut — I know ; that be perhaps the naughty of all . we want to have fun . we want to make our own mind up . this place can educate we , tell we , give we the fact , but the idea that it should make those decision for other people show I that the spirit of Oliver Cromwell be alive and well . do the hon . Gentleman agree that a responsible government should seek to improve public health , particularly the public health of the young generation ? it be quite possible that sugar should be ban , so yes , I agree . it be possible , but I do not think that be what the Government be here to do . the Government can educate ; individual should make up their own mind . some of the nonsense I have hear this afternoon have be quite extraordinary . a smokefree generation ! we even have the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) suggest we would be smokefree by 2030 . to begin with , the idea that nobody bear after 2009 could buy the tobacco product that those bear before then could be just another aspect of two - tier Britain . and not a single member — not one , despite the fact that we be discuss nicotine and tobacco product — so far have mention drug . oh , no ! let ' s forget about that , because drug be illegal already and we can not do anything about they . I have be hear for decade that there will be a war on drug . where be it get we ? drug use be rocket , and class a drug in particular , with all the associated crime , be proliferate everywhere . here be the danger : believe it or not , an ounce of tobacco be now more expensive , if purchase legally in a shop , than an ounce of silver , so already we have a rocket trade in illegal cigarette and loose tobacco . if we carry on down this route , with age band and so on , we will find ourselves in the position that Australia have stupidly put itself in by over - tax tobacco and make it very difficult to smoke . there have be 40 fire - bombing of premise in Melbourne alone in the last two year . do not drive tobacco into the hand of the criminal . do not create a new black market . I totally agree with the Minister : this be not an activity that we should encourage . we be not keen for our kid to smoke , but please treat we as grow - up . educate we . let we make our choice . do not let the criminal win . first , I should say thank you to the Minister for present this afternoon , and for allow I to be on the Tobacco and Vapes Bill Committee , which be incredibly interesting . there be differ view and there be robust conversation . it be always good to listen to different view , but overall the Bill generally have cross - party support . as Conservative Members have point out , many member of their party have be campaign for this Bill for a long time . I be a public health consultant — I train for 10 to 15 year to be one — and the precondition for public health policy be datum and evidence . opinion be interesting — they can add great colour and character to a conversation — but datum and evidence will ultimately deliver well population health outcome . this public health Bill will stop people die and will take away addiction to a substance — an addiction that be not a choice . for many year , there have be public health conversation about whether we should impose measure . this conversation be not new . I wonder how many of we in the House feel strongly these day about wear seatbelt , but we do not have to go too far back to find a time when people really object to be tell to wear a seatbelt . tobacco be undoubtedly still the lead cause of premature death and disability in the United Kingdom , as have be mention by my hon . friend . every day , around 160 people be diagnose with cancer cause by smoking , and smoking cause at least 16 different type of cancer . I will talk primarily about new clause 13 , propose by my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . the Bill will do outstanding work to enable a smokefree generation , but we also need to continue to tackle health inequality for exist smoker . smoking be harmful , and difference in smoke prevalence across the population translate into major difference in death rate and illness . we in this place come together from across the country and represent different constituency . we want the good health outcome , among many other thing , for our resident . it be therefore incumbent on we to look at inequality and where they reside , and to legislate against they where possible . smoking be the single large driver of health inequality in England . it be far more common among people with low income , and I be happy to discuss with any member why that be . the more disadvantaged someone be , the more likely they be to smoke , to suffer from smoking - relate disease , and to suffer a premature death . smoking - relate health inequality be not relate solely to socioeconomic status . we represent different part of the United Kingdom . the poor health of people in the north of England be in part due to high rate of smoke there . smoking rate be also high among people with a mental health condition , people in contact with the criminal justice system , look - after child and LGBT people . we all have different type of people in our constituency , and we should be mindful of those inequality and the need to address they . health inequality will be reduce through measure that have a great effect on smoker in high prevalence group . in practice , that mean prioritise population - level intervention that disadvantaged smoker be more sensitive to , and target intervention on those smoker . have run smoking cessation service during my time as a public health consultant , I can absolutely say that it be incredibly difficult for anybody to give up smoking . we have member who have succeed , and who be perhaps still try to give up . to give up smoking , a person need to be in a place where they have the mental resilience and can put time and energy into quit . if they be fight all the other issue that come with the burden of be poor — if they be fight for employment or try to feed their child — it be so much hard . my hon . friend have propose a road map to a smokefree country , and a report to this place every five year . I be not particularly wed to that , but we should be laser - focused on reduce health inequality across all population . I therefore hope that our Government will consider have a reporting process similar to the one in new clause 13 among the change to the national health service . in the Health and Social Care Committee this morning , we be talk about where the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities will go follow the dissolution of NHS England . this be an ongoing conversation that we need to be mindful of . we need to ensure that the ongoing importance of address health disparity be not lose , and I think that be front and centre of the Secretary of State ' s agenda in the 10 - year plan . on behalf of public health consultant and professional , I commend the Bill to the House , and I be proud to be part of a Government and a Parliament that will bring this life - change piece of legislation to the country . I want to speak to amendment 4 and the subsequent amendment in my name , and to new clause 3 . it be right that where a public health issue be identify , this body should look at whether anything can be do about it through law , fiscal policy , or the other lever available to we , but we should ask ourselves , when we introduce law , what the consequence be . be there any unintended consequence , and how practical and enforceable be the measure ? if they be unenforceable , all we do be bring the law and this place into disrepute . while some have describe this Bill as well - mean , essential , a flagship Bill , and a show of leadership , I be concerned that we have give little thought to , and have little debate about , the consequence , which be hit we in the face . let we be honest with ourselves : it would be good to walk away at the end of today ' s sit and say , " we have do a wonderful thing for future generation ; we have introduce law that will do away with smoking and will improve the health of the nation , " but we be ignore the fact that we have introduce legislation that be unworkable , and to which I believe , through my amendment , there be an alternative . do the right hon . Gentleman recall that many warn before the 2007 smoking ban that it would be unenforceable , and that there would be barely any compliance with it ? however , from day one , there be 97 % compliance . that law have help to drive a reduction in cancer due to secondary smoking , and a massive number of people give up as a result of no long be able to smoke in the pub . the hon . Member will have the answer to that if he reflect on what we be debate today . we introduce that legislation , yet here we be , revisit the issue , because people be still smoke and health outcome be still bad — and we have additional problem , which I will come to in a moment , namely the illegal purchase and supply of tobacco . we have try this in the past — we have try ban and all kind of other measure — yet we still have the problem with we . let we consider the consequence . first , we be be ask to introduce legislation , the burden of which will fall on retailer , because it be at the point of purchase that the scrutiny require by the Bill , and its implementation , will have to take place . there be a question that we have not debate yet : what happen when a retailer be face in a few year ' time with two people , one aged 29 and the other 28 , both demand tobacco ? one say " I ' m 29 " and the other say " I ' m 29 as well . " the retailer be mean to distinguish which of they he can sell tobacco to legally . that be a real , practical problem , and it place a burden on the retailer , because if he do not make the right decision , he face a fine and the removal of his license , and that source of income for his business will be affect . I agree about the practicality of need to pick between two adult of similar age in a shop . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the person sell the cigarette will probably be a shop lad age 18 or 19 ? he will have to draw a distinction between adult much old than he . we should consider the position that put that young gentleman in . that be the next point I be go to come to ; the hon . Gentleman anticipate what I be go to say . we will place a burden not just on the retailer , but on those who work in the retailer ' s store . we be concerned about assault on retail staff ; we have take legislation on the subject through the House . the evidence from the British Retail Consortium be that many of those assault take place when good be deny to individual because they can not offer identification and show their age , so we be place retailer and those who work in shop in great danger . there may be a safeguard against that in some of the big store that have security guard , but many of the shop that sell tobacco be small corner retailer that do not have security guard , or even anyone in the shop other than the shopkeeper or the person behind the counter . yet we be demand that they implement the legislation , regardless of how practical or impractical it be for individual to make a distinction between somebody who be 37 and somebody who be 36 , or whatever . the right hon . Member might be forgive for think that we be start from a zero - sum game , but we already have restriction , as people must be 18 to purchase cigarette and vape . shop worker be already challenge customer on their age , so the regulation do not come from nowhere . secondly , if you read the Bill , you would know that there be a date specify that would be very clear on identification — order . intervention should be short and the term " you " refer to I in the Chair . it be easy to distinguish between a 16 - year - old and a 24 - year - old . usually , the young the age , the easy it be to make that determination , but it be much more difficult when people be old , yet that distinction will have to be make . the idea may be that the cost of the licence will be so expensive that many small retailer will be squeeze out of the market , and the only outlet will be big store where there be security guard . however , the sale of tobacco provide an important part of the income of many small retailer . whether we like it or not , we be put a burden on people who will find that they be expose to danger and difficulty , and will be subject to the law if they make the wrong decision . the second issue , which have be touch on today , be what happen when people can not get the tobacco that they want . where do they go ? they go to people who be prepared to sell it to they illegally . we can not run away from the fact that the sale of illegal tobacco be already lucrative , especially because of the tax increase that we have introduce . it be lucrative for criminal gang and it fund many of their activity . we have hear statistic that 7 % of cigarette and 33 % of roll tobacco be already sell by criminal gang . in Northern Ireland , it be probably far high because paramilitary be involve in the trade and use it to fund their activity for so long . if anybody think , " oh well , we ' ll deal with that problem when it come , " look at the history of Northern Ireland , where hundred of million of pound find its way into the coffer of terror gang and action be not take , because it be sometimes too hard or too difficult to trace the thing . yes , action have now be take , but do not think that we be go to have an all - out assault on the booming industry that this legislation will produce . my last point about the Bill be impractical be that it can not apply in Northern Ireland because , as part of the EU single market , we be under the tobacco product directive . the Irish Republic try to introduce similar legislation and find that it could not because of that directive . that be why we have table new clause 3 , challenge the Government to amend the Windsor framework so that the legislation will apply across the United Kingdom . this be not a counsel of despair because I believe that there be an alternative , as set out in the amendment . indeed , the Government ' s own modelling suggest that a much more practical way be to set the age limit at 21 . if the figure and the modelling be correct — although there be question about the tobacco modelling on do away with smoking in a generation — and if we impose the age limit of 21 , which avoid some of the problem we have talk about with the sale of tobacco , we reach zero consumption by 2050 , just as we do with the generational model . that avoid many of the problem and difficulty I have outline and the consequence for retailer , rather than rush into this . it be a headline - grab measure , but it have not work elsewhere . why do New Zealand drop it ? because of the booming market in illegal tobacco . I believe that in a number of year , we will find that we make the same mistake . for I , the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be a landmark opportunity to improve health outcome for people in my constituency of Kilmarnock and Loudoun , as well as people across the whole United Kingdom . almost 80 , 000 people die each year from smoking - relate illness , and many of my constituent have tell I they wish that they have never start smoke in the first place . with this Bill , we draw a line under the public health tragedy that tobacco have cause over too many decade . on top of the tragedy of 80 , 000 death , every year smoking cost the NHS more than £ 3 billion and see our economy lose more than £ 18 billion in productivity . this Bill be the bold action that our country need and that my constituent in Kilmarnock and Loudoun will benefit from . I be proud that this Labour Government be stand up to the tobacco lobby with the banning of tobacco product for anyone bear in or after 2009 . that radical change will save life . in my constituency , I have see people as young as 12 puffing on vape on their way to school and when return home . that be a huge concern for the health and wellbeing of those young people , and the ease of access that they have to vape be simply unacceptable . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . she refer to the risk that young people will increasingly use vape . do she agree that the ban on advertising vape can not come quickly enough ? in my constituency of Rugby , I see shop that look like sweet shop and whose name sound like sweet shop that be clearly design to encourage and frankly entice young people to take up this unpleasant habit . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend on those point . while some argue that vape may be less harmful than smoke tobacco product , our new generation should not be encourage to become dependent on the addictive effect of nicotine . this Bill do exactly the right thing in give the Secretary of State the power to ban flavour vape that be very obviously market to child and young people . research the flavour on offer , I find cola gummie flavour , pink lemonade flavour , strawberry chew flavour and tropic bubblegum flavour , to name just a few . can anyone really claim that those flavour and the countless other on offer be not aim at child ? many member from both side of the House would raise more than an eyebrow at that claim . this Bill will regulate the wild west of vaping , which we have see expand on our high street over the last decade . it will also address the issue of poor - quality vape , which be a safety concern , include single - use vape , and end the scourge of these product litter our street and community . as someone with a background of 23 year in the NHS , I know the difference that this Bill will make ; it will save life and help to save our environment , and I will be proud to vote for it . in our post - spiritual or at least post - religious age , two phenomenon be evident . when God be forget and faith decline , people do not believe in nothing but , as G . k . Chesterton say , they believe in anything . they find new cause and crusade , and I know the advocate of this Bill believe that they be crusade in a noble cause . the second thing that occur be that , as demon be regard as purely mythical entity , thing that be once regard as normal and regular become demonised . the curious paradox be that while cocaine be widely available — and , I be tell , de rigueur among certain element of the urban liberal elite — pipe smoker be now see as heretic . be that not so alarming , it would be the subject of a comic satire . that be the kind of world we live in : we be simultaneously become more prurient and more puritanical . the amendment that stand in my name and those of other hon . and right hon . gentleman be design to improve the Bill to avoid unintended consequence . the hon . member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) say — I think I be quote she accurately — that we need datum and evidence . what be clear from the datum and evidence be that previous attempt to deal with the issue of smoking have result in a huge surge in illegal tobacco . some 83 % of smoker report purchase tobacco not subject to UK tax in 2024 . that number have increase hugely since that early legislation . three quarter of smoker claim to buy tobacco not subject to UK tax from under - the - counter supplier , who have become legion in constituency such as mine and , I be sure , in small town across the whole of the country . those be the unintended consequence of well - mean crusader who think they be do noble thing when they pass legislation in this House . that be the datum . those be the fact . will the right hon . member give way ? I will give way . as I have cite the hon . Lady , how could I do anything other ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way . be he make the argument that we should not address population health issue — population health intervention have see a reduction in smoking and a reduction in health - relate damage from smoking — because of the consequence of illegal tobacco ? those issue do need to be address , but be he say that we should keep it legal and therefore not see a reduction ? what I be say to the hon . Lady be that the Government — and the previous Government should have do the same — need to take concerted and decisive action to deal with the unintended consequence of well - mean legislation that lead to a huge growth in the illegal sale of tobacco and cigarette . rather than introduce a rolling age of consent , which , by the way , be entirely unenforceable , they ought to target their effort , draw on their resource and seek the almost limitless expertise that be available to Government to deal with an issue that , frankly , be go largely unrestricted . good work be be do by trading standard in my constituency in Lincolnshire and by local police , but they struggle , because the legislation be inadequate . I would have support a Bill , have it come to the House — I will not digress too much , Madam Deputy Speaker , because you will not allow I to do so — that license the sale of tobacco . Most tobacconist and most newsagent , I suspect , would welcome that measure . I know that police would like to see that kind of measure , which be rather like what we do with alcohol . there be a precedent there , but that be not what be before we today . on the rolling age of consent , the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who have table amendment 4 , be right that it can not be enforce . I be in favour , by the way , of raise the age of consent . to be honest , I be in favour of raise the age of consent to 21 for virtually everything . that could be enforce , although it would not be straightforward . but the idea that someone will go into a tobacconist or a newsagent and say , " I be 29 " and the tobacconist will say , " actually , I think you could be 28 " or in year to come , " I be 57 " and the tobacconist or newsagent will say , " no , no , I think you could be 55 " be nonsense . it be never go to happen . no retailer be go to do that . either the Bill will fail — I think the law would be break daily — or we will devote undue resource to police something that frankly do not warrant such attention . let we recognise that this be a preposterous proposal . as the right hon . member for East Antrim say , by and large we should not do thing in this House that be preposterous . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , who be go to tell I why we should . I be a retail and hospitality worker myself in Scotland , and we apply " check 25 " regularly . would the simple question not be , " be you bear before or after 1 January 2009 ? " be that a complex question ? I would appreciate an explanation of how it be . I tell you , there be two thing about this legislation — order . " I tell you " ? Sir John Hayes , you should know well than that . I say " two " . I say that there be two thing about this legislation . I think it be " you " , but no matter — time be short . well , let I rephrase it . I tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that there be two thing about this legislation — I have get it right now — and the first be its core objective and the second be the mean by which that objective be meet . I be , at the moment , talk about the mean by which it be meet , and I will say a little more about that when I address some of the amendment in my name and those of other member . when we pass measure in this House — when we make law — we should concentrate on both their purpose and their effect . if we do not do that , we be not do our job as lawmaker . my concern about the Bill be that the effect will be compromise by the mean , regardless of its purpose . I entirely endorse what be say by my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) about plastic filter . I think that her new clause 2 would be a helpful addition to the Bill , and I should be amazed if the Minister do not embrace and adopt it . perhaps it could be table as a Government amendment , but we may vote on it later . I be sure that the Government Whips will want to whip their member to support it , because it be environmentally right , terribly sensible and entirely deliverable . it would oblige the industry to do the right thing and create filter that be biodegradable and which , as we hear early , be produce in immense number . I have mention amendment 4 , in the name of the right hon . member for East Antrim , which deal with this nonsense of the rolling age of consent . it be a straightforward amendment that propose that the age of consent should be 21 — a considerable increase on where we be now — and that retailer must observe that . the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) say that the matter be already be deal with because there be already an age of consent . yes , there be one age of consent , but not a series of age of consent , with the need to assess people ' s age presumably by some formal mean . perhaps they will have to take their passport with they every time they go to the newsagent to buy their paper and their ounce of Golden Virginia , or whatever else . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , who I think ask a terribly weak question during Prime Minister ' s Question Time early today . let we see whether he can do well now . it be not very pleasant of the right hon . gentleman to say that , but I thank he for let I intervene . regard the age of consent and the amendment call for it to be raise to 21 , do he not accept that the tobacco industry would merely target its immense marketing power on those who be over 21 , and that that that could have a very bad effect on public health ? the key thing about tobacco — as the hon . member for worthe West , the expert on public health who be sit next to the hon . Gentleman , will no doubt confirm — be that people tend to acquire the habit early and , as the hon . Lady say , can not break it . not many people be non - smoker at 30 and become smoker at 40 . the vast majority of smoker acquire the habit early in their life . my father probably start smoke at 13 . he give up overnight when he be 75 , because the price of Golden Virginia go up . I say to he , " do you feel any well , " and he reply , " I didn ' t feel ill when I smoke and I don ' t feel ill now " — but that be another matter . this issue really relate to young people and child in particular , and that bring I to vape . I support much of what be in the Bill about they . school have an immense problem with vaping . Headteachers and teacher tell I that it be something that they have to be religious in scrutinise , because these thing can find their way into school so easily — in someone ' s bag , for instance . rather as with mobile phone , we must enforce a ban on vape in school with rigour . I think that the measure be introduce in the Bill will reinforce that , so I share the Government ' s ambition in that respect . on new clause 12 , which stand in my name , I again find it hard to believe that the Government will not accept it willingly , because it simply say that we should review how effective the legislation be . it be probably true that every Bill we debate ought to have something like this attach to it , because it be a good idea — once a Bill have be publish , debate , consider and pass into law — that it should be regularly review in such a way . I understand that the mover of this Bill , its advocate and its enthusiast believe that they be do the right thing , and I be not unsympathetic to some of their ambition . I do sometimes — often indeed — wish that this House be colour by common sense as liberally as it be pepper with piety . none the less , let I be generous and say that I know that the Minister and other feel that they be do something noble . however , it be absolutely right , when we legislate in this House , that we do so with the great care , with clear and desirable purpose of the kind I mention a moment or two ago , appropriate mean and measurable effect . will the right hon . member give way ? I be move to my thrilling peroration , but I will hesitate for a moment or two . I thank the right hon . member for give way , and I can not express just how pleased I be that he have . child make up one in five of our population , but routinely get ignore , so it be no wonder that playground after playground get close . if a child be able to make their way into a playground , they be now subject to second - hand smoke , because to date there be no law to stop that . do he agree with I that one of the great thing about this Bill be that we be go to protect child against second - hand smoke and make sure that their health be well as a result ? I agree that it would be well if child be able to avoid either first - hand or second - hand smoke . we have to stop young people themselves smoke . sadly , too many people do smoke too young . rightly , as the hon . Gentleman say , we need to prevent their being affect by the smoking of other , so what he say be of course perfectly reasonable . I will repeat my pre - peroration briefly . I have say that the legislation we pass should have a clear and desirable purpose , appropriate mean and a measurable effect . in other word , we need to do the right thing by the right mean for the right reason . law that be unenforceable be not only undesirable ; they do we as legislator no favour , for they undermine popular faith in what we do and in who we be . much of this law be unenforceable for the reason I have give . Parliament ' s history be litter with unforeseen consequence . I foresee , and I hope other might too , that with the improvement the amendment would bring to this Bill , we can avoid some of the bad of those unforeseen consequence . rise — Order . I apologise to all member , but we will now have a speak limit of five minute . I appreciate that you want to guillotine speech to five minute , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to speak on the Bill and , as a member of the Public Bill Committee , to see it come before the House . I welcome the contribution of member across the House , and the quality of the scrutiny we see in the Public Bill Committee . I also want to reflect on the year of campaigning and service undertake by Ministers and shadow Ministers that have bring we to this place , and on the advocacy in broadcast and on the news of people who be smoker but who say that they never should have start . I also welcome the view of young people in my constituency who , when speak to I at school and college , have tell I how vape be become more pernicious and more commonplace in their life . I will speak to Government new clause 11 and new clause 6 on age verification and the rise escalator , and I will challenge some of the point make about enforcement . I will also talk to new clause 13 on education and a road map to a smokefree generation , and to new clause 19 , which set annualise reporting on nicotine - base product . I will also challenge some of the Opposition ' s misconception about trading standard and the regulatory landscape . the Bill be forward think and respond to an issue , but it build on previous legislation over many year and good practice in other place and other country to regulate and reduce smoking . we know that noble crusader on public health have in the past take action to clean our air , clean our water , and introduce seatbelt restriction and food standard . we know that public health measure work . smoking be the large preventable cause of illness and premature death in the United Kingdom , kill about 80 , 000 people a year . it be estimate to cost £ 2 . 4 billion to the NHS and a furth £ 1 . 2 billion in cost every year , with smoker five time more likely to need social care support at home . the annual economic productivity loss add up to £ 27 billion . not only be there an ethical and social motivation behind the Bill ; there be an economic one as well . age verification be a topic of debate in Committee . I welcome Government new clause 11 and new clause 6 on age verification . government new clause 11 introduce digital identification , and link in with government legislation to introduce digital ID over the next five year . this be absolutely enforceable . in many off - licence and supermarket today , age challenge happen at bespoke counter . individual under the age of 18 who try to purchase vape or tobacco - base product be challenge on their age . all the Bill will do be introduce a fix date , which can then be assess use any form of digital ID . it be no more onerous than what be currently happen , but it will require training and a transition period . I challenge the comment make by some oppose the measure that it be somehow unenforceable . we already enforce age restriction on the sale of product — it already happen . the hon . Gentleman will have read my new clause 12 , which ask for a review . it would be really good to look at whether the measure can work in the way he say . I hope he might support my new clause just on that basis . let we take it at face value : if it work , it work ; if it doesn ' t , it doesn ' t . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his contribution . I want to take he back to his speech , when he say that he would consider an increase in age to 21 or 25 . my concern be that that would introduce a two - tier adult status . if we increase the age from 18 to 21 overnight , there will be adult who previously could smoke who will then be ban from smoke for three year . I do not accept the premise that we should have two - tier adult , which be why I believe in a stage increase in smoking cessation . on new clause 13 , I support the Government ' s ambition to reduce smoking and I want to make it absolutely clear that this measure be part of a global standard to reduce smoking around the world . the Bill be pioneer and I urge member to support it . on Second Reading , the Government say that this be a four nation Bill . on the face of it , it be , but the legal reality be that it be not . the provision applicable to Northern Ireland be inevitably destine to be strike down by the High Court because of Northern Ireland ' s subjugation , under the protocol or Windsor framework , to EU law . the specific EU law that Northern Ireland be subject to relevant to this Bill be the tobacco directive . accord to that directive , state can not limit the placing on the market of tobacco product . that cause the government of two country within the EU — the government of Denmark and the Irish Republic — to withdraw proposal , while acknowledge that they want to do what this House be do , but could not do so , because it would breach the tobacco directive . to I , it be an appalling vista that this so - call sovereign Parliament of the United Kingdom can produce a Bill that , on its face , apply to all part of the United Kingdom , but , because of a Parliament that we do not elect decree a superior piece of legislation , in so far as Northern Ireland be concern — because we be , alas , subject to its rule — the proposal will , as far as my constituent be concern , be stillborn . that be quite an appalling situation . the legal recommendation have be quite clear . that be why I draft new clause 3 , which would provide a route to allow this Bill to apply in Northern Ireland . it would do so by exempt the tobacco directive from pass through the conduit that deliver EU law to Northern Ireland — namely section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . Northern Ireland be govern under these pernicious EU law through annex 2 of the Windsor framework , which set out 289 law that will continue to apply to Northern Ireland . one of those law be the tobacco directive . along with the other 288 EU law , the directive be , through section 7a , apply as superior law in Northern Ireland law — law that this sovereign Parliament can not disapply . that be why , in new clause 3 , I have provide the Government with the opportunity to amend section 7a so as to exempt the tobacco directive ' s application in Northern Ireland . I say to the Government that although they have not accept this new clause , there be still time to do so in the other place , and that there be no point in simply repeat an assurance , as on Second Reading , that they be confident that the legislation will apply . the same government lawyer advise the previous Government that the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 would apply in Northern Ireland . when those piece of legislation hit the buffer in the High Court , it be because Northern Ireland , on those two issue , be subject to the superiority of EU law , under which the court rule . this be an even clear situation . the tobacco directive , which say that state can not ban the sale of product , be set out expressly in annex 2 to the Windsor framework as the superior applicable law . it be therefore even clear that this legislation will be unable to apply in Northern Ireland . my challenge to the Government be the following . there will , no doubt , be challenge in the High Court from the tobacco industry , with its vested interest . if it turn out that these provision be strike down in Northern Ireland , will the Government tonight at least commit to override that in future legislation ? I rise today in support of this legislation . young people vape be not the big issue that come up in surgery , but it be one of the big issue that come up when I walk through town or visit a school , and even when I talk to young people themselves . it be an urgent crisis — not just vape , but smoking . there be around 760 cancer death in the area around Stafford , Eccleshall and the village every year , and datum suggest that in the next five year more than 1 , 100 of my constituent will have have lung cancer - relate issue . this legislation show that this Labour Government care about the child of this country . we care about who they be , and who they will become ; we want they to live long , be happy , and never have the chance to pick up a £ 5 vape or a cheap pack of tobacco that could set they on the path of addiction for the rest of their life . I wish to take a moment to acknowledge the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , for start a version of this Bill and bring it forward despite significant opposition in his own party . I know that he do it out of concern for the future of the child of this country and I commend he for it . today , some will talk about choice when they oppose this Bill . in my work as an MP , I have speak to people whose life have be devastate by this addiction . I ask whether those who speak about choice truly believe that , once addiction have take hold , a person have the same freedom of choice that they once do . this be not about take choice away ; it be about give people freedom from addiction before it ever appear . for I , the Bill be also about something so much deep . it be about time — time with family and time with friend . how many of we have lose love one to cancer ? I lose my grandfather to cancer , and my mum have have lung cancer . my mum be entirely fit at the time she be diagnose with lung cancer — she use to do a Joe Wicks workout every morning . as she come from a place in the north where people suffer from lung - relate illness , she be part of a pilot scheme to scan smoker and previous smoker for issue . her cancer be catch early , while she have no symptom . my family know how lucky we be . we be lucky that the cancer , which would have continue to grow in her body , be catch then and there . in fact , the cancer be so small that after it be take away , she need no further treatment ; just a lobe of her lung be remove . my family could not be more grateful that she be part of that scheme , that she be still do Joe Wicks exercise in the morning , and that she be still around to play with her grandchild . how many more precious moment with family will this Bill provide ? that be the only question that I be here to answer . truly , the child of the future may never know how their life be change by this Bill — just as I do not really know how my life be change by the seatbelt Bill introduce year before I be bear — because they will never have pick up the smoking habit in the first place . they will live long , live healthy , and have more time with the people whom they love . let this be the generation that end youth addiction before it begin . I echo the word of the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) with regard to the importance of this Bill apply to all four nation : I want it to cover the entirety of the United Kingdom . some 2 , 200 people in Northern Ireland die every year from a smoking - relate illness . one in four of our cancer case be relate to smoking . the consultation carry out by the previous Government on their legislation , which be specifically about create a smokefree generation , find that 62 . 5 % of the UK population be supportive . in Northern Ireland , however , 79 % be in favour of bring forward this legislation . back in May 2024 , when I be a Northern Ireland Health Minister , I introduce the original legislative consent motion , which receive all - party support across the Northern Ireland Assembly , and yes , as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim have mention , there be concern over the applicability of the measure owe to EU regulation and legislation . there be a concern that the law would remain undelivered in Northern Ireland . at that stage , I engage with the then UK Government , and have now engage with this Government to seek assurance that this lifesaving , life - change legislation will apply equally and favourably to all part of our United Kingdom . I look forward to the Minister be able to give I those reassurance . I have sign new clause 3 , because I accept those reassurance as Health Minister but would appreciate reinforcement in this legislation . much have be say about the entrapment of our young people — whether previously with regard to tobacco , or now with vaping and vaping product and how they be be market and present . one of the most harrowing report that I have read recently be regard Alder hey child ' s hospital , which have now open a clinic for child addict to nicotine . they become hooked because of vaping . twelve child between the age of 11 and 15 have have to seek medical help to cut down and deal with their nicotine addiction . twelve child between the age of 11 and 15 be receive treatment in a child ' s hospital due to the evil promotion and enhancement of not just vaping but nicotine . we be look to save money within our national health service , but we be already encourage and enable these young people to become addicted to a dangerous drug . we should be do everything we can in this place for young people . accord to report about the Alder hey clinic , child as young as eight be vape regularly . some reportedly can not get out of bed in the morning before they take their first puff . that be a disgrace . I encourage anyone in this Chamber who in any way oppose the Bill or think that this be not the right thing to do to seriously consider how vaping be impact our young people across this United Kingdom . I finish by ask the Minister to reassure this House , not just with word but with action . can she assure those of we from Northern Ireland who have support the legislation and work hard to make sure that it have a four - nation approach that the guidance , support and legal enforcement in the Bill be equally applicable to we in Northern Ireland ? I rise to speak to new clause 14 and amendment 86 and 87 . I declare an interest as vice chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . I be also a previous smoker and a strong supporter of this legislation . new clause 14 would introduce a ban on all filter , regardless of whether they contain plastic . I understand the environmental motivation behind new clause 2 from the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , but I worry that the amendment be not sufficient to address environmental concern and could even have a damaging impact on public health . let we start from the understanding that there be no health benefit to filter . they be develop by the tobacco industry follow evidence that smoking cause lung cancer in order to give a false sense of reassurance to smoker . filter have be dub " the deadly fraud in the history of human civilisation " . Most filter contain single - use plastic and be a major environmental hazard , cost UK local authority around £ 40 million a year to clean up . Cigarette filter be the most littered item in the world . in the UK they make up 66 % of all litter item . biodegradable alternative may therefore feel like an attractive solution , but biodegradable filter do not eliminate environmental concern . they have be show to be equally toxic to marine and freshwater life when litter in our river and sea . they take between two and 14 year to decompose , and they often do so only in very particular condition , such as under high temperature . biodegradable filter could also lead to an increase in guilt - free litter through smoker believe that discard butt do not have an environmental impact . however , the great risk of biodegradable filter be that they allow tobacco company to continue with filter fraud and greenwashe in order to rehabilitate their reputation . the good policy , therefore , be to ban all filter . it would mean smoker smoke filterless cigarette , which , I remind the House , be no bad for their health . it would incentivise quitting , which be the good way to tackle tobacco - relate litter and pollution , and it would put people off start smoking — something of which I be sure everyone in this Chamber would be in favour . end the sale of filter would remove the fraud be perpetrate on smoker that by use a filter they be protect their health . we ban descriptor such as " light " and " mild " , because they give false comfort to smoker that they be use safe product and inhibit they quit . we should do the same again by ban filter , ensure that those who smoke do not do so because of a belief that their cigarette be safe . recent ASH polling show that only 25 % of the public be able to correctly identify that filter have no health benefit . the Government should be bold in address these misconception for the benefit of public health and take the opportunity of a ban to highlight the harm of tobacco . a ban on filter be an opportunity to protect the environment and secure health benefit . the impact of any ban should be maximise by a strong communication campaign to educate smoker and the wide public about filter fraud . briefly , amendment 86 and 87 flag the need for the Government to consider the matter of the sale of bundle of tobacco paper and filter , which could be see as smoke starter kit . some supermarket offer these bundle at only a small cost above the price of the tobacco alone . they be convenient and cost - saving for smoker . that undermine the public health motivation for increase the price of tobacco product . I reiterate my full support for this legislation , and how important it be that we stop the start and bring about a smokefree generation . I commend the work of Action on Smoking and Health in support and shape an excellent bill that will be a great law . I rise to speak to new clause 1 in my name . it would strengthen the Bill by require the Secretary of State to conduct a review and publish a report on the impact of contaminate e - liquid and way to reduce its prevalence . it would also give the Secretary of State power to make regulation to kerb the harm cause by contaminate e - liquid . I have be campaign on the issue of Spice - spike vape ever since it come to my attention last summer . the Bill be an opportunity to make a real change on this hugely concern problem that be sweep through school across the country . new clause 1 would improve our understanding of contaminate e - liquid and ensure that the necessary regulation could be introduce to reduce the harm that it cause . the issue be first uncover by Professor Chris Pudney at the University of Bath , who find that one in six vape confiscate in school contain the synthetic drug Spice . Spice be a dangerous prison drug that cause serious harm to user , include hallucination , dizziness , chest pain , breathe difficulty and damage to vital organ . the highly addictive nature of Spice make it a gateway to criminal activity , coercion and abuse . it be tragic that anyone would take this drug , but it be especially tragic when young people do , who be often unaware of the danger . many young people inadvertently smoke Spice under the impression that it be cannabis . worryingly , recent investigation have find that vape be be contaminate with not just Spice but ketamine and MDMA , which be particularly harmful when take in high dose . the landscape of contaminate e - liquid be evolve rapidly , and it be likely that this issue will worsen if the Bill pass unamended . an unintended consequence of ban disposable vape be that it will drive more user towards refillable vape , which be the primary vehicle for contaminate e - liquid . refillable vape be more susceptible to be spike with harmful substance than disposable vape . this shift could exacerbate an already significant public health threat , make it even hard to control the spread of dangerous substance in the market . I welcome the ban on disposable vape , but we must take action to safeguard against these unintended consequence . the Metropolitan police have warn about child access illicit vape through social medium platform such as Snapchat and Telegram . there be clearly a link between social medium - drive drug dealing and the rise of vaping in school . the ease of access to vape and their widespread use make they even more difficult to regulate , and make it difficult to protect individual from unknowingly consume illicit substance . there be a lack of knowledge and oversight , and counterfeit or illicit vape product be slip through the crack , exacerbate the already alarming rise in drug - relate incident . there be much more to understand about how illicit vape and e - liquid be obtain . new clause 1 would set we on our way ; it would ensure that we build on the research of Professor Pudney at the University of Bath by conduct a review of the impact and prevalence of these illicit e - liquid . I have have several conversation with Ministers about this issue . first , in response to my Adjournment debate , the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention commit to address the issue through the Bill . I also meet the former public health Minister , who assure I that the Government and health official be take the issue very seriously . I appreciate that minister want to make change in this area ; I urge they please to follow through and make this change by support new clause 1 . as I have a little time , I note new clause 19 , in the name of the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , which would require the Government to report on the availability of illegal tobacco and vaping product . this be a serious problem to which attention be rightfully be bring . I support that addition to the Bill , but the new clause do not quite get to the heart of the issue that I be focus on . new clause 1 call for a specific review of contaminate e - liquid and way to reduce its prevalence , and give the Secretary of State power to make regulation to combat the harm that contaminate e - liquid cause . I welcome the amendment to the Bill . this be now a strengthened piece of legislation that will create the first smokefree generation . the chronic health issue that stem from smoking and their impact on our NHS be well know . the Bill , the amendment and what they will go on to achieve will be critical in support the NHS and improve health outcome . smoking cost the economy and wide society more than £ 20 billion a year , include a cost of £ 3 billion to the NHS and social care . that be equivalent to the annual salary of almost 700 , 000 nurse or 500 , 000 gps , and be the cost of more than 500 million GP appointment . while the Bill will create the first smokefree generation , the Government recognise that we need to do more to help people quit smoking . that be why I be so glad to welcome the additional funding announce in December to support local authority - lead stop smoke service . Suffolk be allocate an additional £ 900 , 000 for this year , which mean that people in Suffolk Coastal will be able to access support and live healthy , smokefree life . I know from personal experience just how hard that be . on the very day of the Bill ' s Second reading in November , I give up smoking , because I have just vote on a Bill that would mean that my niece and nephew would never legally be able to smoke . I have try to give up smoking before — the last time be just before the general election , when in truth I never stand a chance of succeed — but I be able to succeed this time only because I have move to vape . to quote something that have already be say , " if you smoke , vape ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape . " it be simple and true . I speak on Second Reading about the important role that the Bill will play in prevent young people from take up vaping . the dramatic rise in child take up vaping should be nationally recognise as one of the most concern crisis face young people and child . the Bill will make it hard for young people to be draw into vaping and will bring the law on vape advertising in line with that for tobacco advertising : there will be a total ban on vape advertising and sponsorship . there will also be a consultation on the vape flavour that we all know be far too appealing to child . however , we need to do more . as I stand here deliver this contribution , new product be appear on the market that seek to exploit the loophole in the upcoming ban on single - use vape . I understand that the Bill explicitly give the Secretary of State power to regulate far to limit the size of vape , and to ban the so - call big puff vape , which provide more than 600 puff per pod . since Second Reading , we have see product come on to the market that allow people to attach refillable 10 ml pod , create , in effect , a 3 , 000 - puff vape . that be not a big puff vape ; it be a colossal puff vape . the hon . Lady be talk about refillable vape . do she agree that contaminate refill be a huge problem , and that the Government should take that seriously and amend the Bill far ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . we have hear that point make articulately , and not just by she . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to that . the issue of the 3 , 000 - puff vape and the addition that can be make to vape be why I table new clause 21 , which build on theme that have be speak about in the Chamber this afternoon . I welcome the power in the Bill for the Secretary of State to regulate far to standardise the size of reusable vape , but my new clause would allow we to limit their size soon and prevent rogue vape manufacturer from circumvent the rule while the Secretary of State undertake further consultation on such measure . though the Bill provide the power to standardise vape , I be ask the Government to legislate now to standardise and regulate puff per vape , so that we do not see an explosion of new vape in the marketplace that be try to get around the single - use vape ban in this legislation . I close by thank the Minister and the Department for their work in bring the Bill forward , and for the cross - departmental push to make vape safe and reduce its appeal to child . I hope that it be welcome in all part of the House . I will focus my comment on the vape element of the Bill , and particularly the impact on child . it be a desperately sad and damn reflection on our society that we now need a dedicated clinic at Alder hey child ' s hospital to treat child as young as 11 for vape addiction . I be horrify to read Professor Isba ' s account of child reach for their vape early in the morning , before they get out of bed . their vape sit next to their mobile phone on the bedside table . the alarming rise in nicotine dependency among child be deeply troubling . although I welcome the fact that the clinic ' s success will lead to similar scheme be roll out across the country , that be not a sign of progress ; it be a glare wake - up call . today , we have a chance , through the Bill , to break the cycle of addiction , protect our child and build a healthy future for country . we face the alarming rise of vaping , which have hook a record number of young people . as a former deputy headteacher , I see vaping spread through school like wildfire . I catch student hiding vape — already hook before they even understand what addiction mean . I see student who should have be focus on their schoolwork struggle instead with craving that they could not control . I see teacher battle to keep their student in the classroom , instead of sneak puff in the toilet . I speak to worried parent who feel helpless and never think that their child would be catch up in this . vaping be not just a bad habit ; it be a trap , and too many of our young people be already catch in it . the situation that we face do not come about overnight . for far too long , the previous Government fail to act while vape rate among child soar . it feel like the stable door be leave wide open and the horse have bolt . we could sit back and do nothing , and watch another generation of young people in Wolverhampton North East and across the country get hook , but that be not what a responsible Government do , and it be not what this Labour Government will do . through the Bill , we will take bold action . smokefree zone will be expand to protect child , family and the most vulnerable in our community . for those who want to quit , there will be real support , back by real investment , deliver real result . for too long , we have see a market design to hook kid on nicotine , with bright colour , fruity flavour and shameless advertising that deliberately target young people . my hon . friend be make a powerful contribution . vaping be not a safe alternative for child . accord to last year ' s " grow up in North Yorkshire " survey , 25 % of year 8 student and 49 % of year 10 student have try vape , with 9 % vape regularly . do she agree that the Bill will put an end to vape deliberately be brand in way that appeal to child ? I be pleased to say that that will end with the Bill , which will ban vape advertising aim at child , outlaw sale from vend machine and crack down on packaging design to attract young eye . firm action to protect the health of child include a £ 10 million boost for trading standard to fund more enforcement officer . I welcome the recent announcement of the £ 62 million groundbreaking research to investigate the long - term health effect of vaping by track 100 , 000 young people age eight to 18 over a decade . unless we prevent illness , our NHS will continue to be overwhelm , and billion of pound will be spend address a problem that could have be curb in advance . I call on the House to pass the Bill in order to protect child in Wolverhampton East and across the country . let I begin by thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution . I will try and touch on the many amendment discuss and the key question raise . at the heart of the Bill be the establishment of the smokefree generation by gradually end the sale of tobacco product across the UK . amendment 4 to 35 table by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , amendment 38 to 45 table by the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , amendment 103 to 111 table by the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and new clause 12 table by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) would remove that policy or water it down . there be no liberty or choice in addiction , however , and that be why the Government be commit to create the world ' s first smokefree generation . we have the public ' s backing , with 71 % of adult support the goal of a smokefree Britain in a YouGov poll carry out in November 2023 . raise the age of sale to 21 will not meet our ambition to make the UK smokefree . the shadow Minister and other hon . member raise the issue of smokefree place and amendment 84 , 85 and 92 to 102 would limit those power . I reassure all hon . and right hon . member that in England we intend to consult on extend smokefree outdoor place to outside school , child ' s playground and hospital . private outdoor space be out of scope of the Bill ' s power , and we recognise that now be not the right time to extend smokefree place to outdoor hospitality setting . the power , as currently draft , ensure that the Bill be appropriately future - proof . any regulation make under the clause will be subject to a statutory consultation to ensure that there be sufficient scrutiny of any extension and as health be devolve , the devolve government will decide which place they wish to designate as smokefree . I appreciate the intention of the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) to ensure local authority have fund to address local public health priority . it would be inappropriate , however , for local authority to retain the £ 2 , 500 fix penalty notice for licensing offence as set out in amendment 1 and 2 , as that could distort the enforcement priority of local authority and encourage revenue generation . council be already provide with a ringfenced budget for public health and in 2025 - 26 we be increase the public health grant to £ 3 . 858 billion . we have extend the swap to stop scheme for the come year , include free vape kit for smoker to use as a quit aid . I can also confirm today that the national smokefree pregnancy incentive scheme will continue into the come year . in response to claim of growth in the illicit market , the late official datum from HMRC , publish in 2024 , do not show an overall increase in the illicit market for tobacco up to 2022 - 23 . history show that when we have introduce target tobacco control measure , they have have a positive impact on tackle the problem of illicit tobacco . when the smoking age be increase from 16 to 18 , the number of illicit cigarette consume fall by 25 % and smoking rate for 16 and 17 - year - old drop by almost a third . I also understand the aim of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , with new clause 19 . however , the new clause be not need . the Government already publish annual datum on the illicit tobacco market and will do the same for vape , follow the introduction of the new vaping product duty in October 2026 . similarly , the Association of Chief Trading Standards officer provide annual report and update specifically on enforcement activity , which include illegal sale and importation of vape . an annual report would only duplicate that . although I be sympathetic to what the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) wish to achieve with new clause 1 , vape contaminate with control drug , include spice , be already illegal and be therefore a matter for the police and Border Force . I hear what the Minister be say , but the Metropolitan police and other force tell we that it be incredibly difficult . the Bill give we an extra opportunity to protect young child from a terrible pathway into addiction and crime . be it not the task of this government to stop that ? the entire Bill be about prevent addiction among our young people and prevent their move into crime . these thing be already illegal and the Government believe that existing legislation will allow for they to be deal with . on cigarette filter , I understand hon . member ' concern about tobacco litter , but new clause 2 , table by the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , could lead to greenwashing , improve the reputation of tobacco manufacturer while not necessarily improve environmental outcome . that be an incredibly lazy argument . we do not care about greenwashe ; greenwashing be just semantic . we care about clean up our beach , clean up our street and reduce the cost to local council of clean up litter . it be ridiculous if the Government be go to be sway by one lobby or another and not do the thing that be common sense and much well for our environment . I thank the hon . member for her intervention . if I be allow to finish , that be one of the issue and that proposal may not necessarily improve environmental outcome . however , we consider that power be already available to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs that enable the Government to limit the damage to the environment cause by filter , so the amendment be unnecessary . similarly , new clause 14 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , would prohibit the supply of all cigarette filter or cigarette contain filter , whether they contain plastic or not . ultimately we believe that the good way to tackle filter be through the reduction of smoking rate . on bundle of tobacco product , the Bill give the Government the power to regulate retail packaging of tobacco product and device , herbal smoking product and cigarette paper , as well as vaping and nicotine product . in addition , the Bill already give the Government power to regulate how product be package together in bundle , so amendment 86 and 87 , also table by my hon . friend , be not necessary . amendment 46 , 90 and 91 and new clause 8 to 10 and 15 would all undermine our promise to the electorate to stop vape be advertise to child . we have a clear mandate , with 74 % of adult in Great Britain supportive of a ban , and we will not create any exemption that could undermine this . on amendment 90 and new clause 15 , let I reassure the shadow Secretary of State and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) that the Government be not prohibit the promotion of vape in general as a smoking cessation tool . let I reassure my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend and for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) that the Bill already provide the Government with power to limit the amount of nicotine in a nicotine pouch , to regulate vaping product in such a way that would prohibit the sale of high puff count vaping device , include set tank capacity limit for device where multiple refill tank be attach , and to ban any other ingredient that may be harmful . the Government believe that these measure be more appropriate for secondary legislation due to the technical detail that need to be capture , rather than in primary legislation as new clause 4 and 21 would require . on amendment 37 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend , we recognise that vape flavour be a really important consideration for adult smoker seek to quit smoking , but we also know that sweet or fruity flavour be the main flavour that appeal to child and that certain flavour and ingredient can be particularly harmful to health . we have be clear that we will carefully consider our future regulation so that we get the balance right , and this be subject to a statutory duty to consult . similarly , I reassure my hon . friend that amendment 88 be unnecessary . we will honour the long - establish principle of good consultation when consult on regulation under part 5 of the Bill , include in relation to who be consult . on new clause 6 and 7 , while the Government be commit to protect child from the risk of harm through addiction , our approach across all product in the Bill be for age to be verify at the point of sale , not at the point of use . mandate any age - gate technology for vape would create harsh restriction on vaping than smoking . that could make vape less accessible and attractive to adult smoker wish to quit and use vape as a smoking cessation tool . I recognise the concern of the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) about online sale . however , it would not be proportionate to ban all online sale because that would impact on those retailer seek to operate within the law . as be discuss in Committee , go back to the issue of wide enforcement , new clause 18 and amendment 89 do not reflect the complex process require to develop the licensing scheme in England and Wales . although I be sympathetic to the shadow Secretary of State ' s aim , rush to publish draft regulation within two month of Royal Assent would risk create flawed policy . I pay tribute to colleague in the Scottish Government , Welsh Government and the Northern Ireland Executive . this UK - wide Bill have be develop in partnership with they , and I thank they for their support . our manifesto commit to reset our relationship with the devolved government , and this Bill be a great success in demonstrate collaboration across government in improve the health of the nation . since the tobacco directive apply to Northern Ireland under the protocol through section 7a of the 2018 Act and apply directly , and the directive forbid the type of proposition in this Bill , would the Minister care to explain to the House how this Bill will be applicable in Northern Ireland as long as the tobacco directive apply ? this Bill have be put together , as I say , with collaboration across all the government and bear in mind all the Government ' s legal obligation under the law . all those thing have be take into account , and the Bill be able to be bring forward in that way . our manifesto commit to deliver the smokefree generation , and we be work across all government to ensure that we deliver that , as well as honour our international obligation . as a result , the Government do not consider new clause 3 table by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) to be necessary . that be because we be content that measure draft in the Bill that apply in relation to Northern Ireland be consistent with our obligation under the Windsor framework , and the propose new clause would put we in breach of international law . in the drafting of the Bill , as I have state , we have consider all its domestic and international obligation , and it be for those reason that the Government can not support new clause 3 . the Bill will bring about a real change by create a smokefree generation . as we have discuss , there be no liberty or choice in addiction , and almost all smoker want to quit and two third wish they have never start . I start smoke at the age of 16 and decide I would stop when I be 18 — I could not stop . I think , " I know , I ' ll stop when I be 21 " and then it be 25 , then it be when I graduate , and then it be when I have a child . at no point be I able to give up this pernicious addiction . it take a cancer diagnosis to scare I into be able to stop smoking , and I do not wish that on any of our young people . in conclusion , many of the amendment be unnecessary because the Bill already grant the Government the power to take forward the issue through the more appropriate route of secondary legislation . this be a landmark Bill : the most significant public health intervention in a generation . it strike the right balance on the interest of public health by be proportionate and not overly burdensome . it allow the Government to bring forward the appropriate primary and secondary legislation to ensure that we can deliver a smokefree generation that protect all our child from the addiction of tobacco , a uniquely harmful substance . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 26 November 2024 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 11 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 2 - Ban on the supply of plastic cigarette filter " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation under section 140 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 have the effect of prohibit the supply of relevant cigarette filter or cigarette contain relevant cigarette filter , whether by way of sale or not , in the course of a business . ( 2 ) the notice require under section 140 ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 in relation to the regulation mention in subsection ( 1 ) must be publish no later than the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 3 ) in this section , ' relevant cigarette filter ' mean a filter which contain plastic and which be intend for use in a cigarette , whether as part of a ready make cigarette or to be use with hand roll tobacco or other substance to be smoke in a cigarette . " — ( dame Caroline Dinenage . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to make regulation , within two year , which would prohibit the supply of cigarette filter which contain plastic or cigarette contain cigarette filter which contain plastic . the regulation would be make under section 140 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Martin Vickers John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Edward Leigh Desmond Swayne Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 137 , Noes 304 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 19 - Reports on illegal sale of tobacco and vaping product " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) prepare an annual report on the scale of the illegal sale and availability of tobacco and vaping product in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) lie a copy of each report before both Houses of Parliament . ( 2 ) each report must provide detail in the United Kingdom of — ( a ) the estimate amount and value of illegal , counterfeit and contraband cigarette and other tobacco product available for sale ; ( b ) the estimate amount and value of illegal or non - compliant vape available for sale ; ( c ) the action take to tackle the illicit trade of tobacco , tobacco product , vaping device and vaping product ; and ( d ) an assessment of the impact of the illicit trade of tobacco , vape and nicotine product on public health and safety . ( 3 ) the first report must be lay within the period of 12 month of the passing of this Act . ( 4 ) each subsequent report must be lay annually begin with the day on which the previous report be lay . " — ( Dr Caroline Johnson . ) this new clause would require that the Government produce annual report on the rate of sale and availability of illegal tobacco and vaping product and their impact on public health and safety . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Harriet Cross Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 159 , Noes 307 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 - sale of tobacco etc amendment make : 47 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) that they take such step as may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State to verify that the customer be bear before 1 January 2009 , or " . this amendment allow regulation to specify step that a seller may take to benefit from the defence in clause 1 ( 2 ) of the Bill . the Bill currently focusse on paper document . the purpose of the new power be to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document . amendment 48 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) before make regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers if the regulation contain provision which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if contain in an Act of the Senedd . ( 2B ) regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) be subject to the negative resolution procedure . " this be consequential to Amendment 47 . amendment 49 , page 1 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendment 47 . clause 3 - tobacco vend machine Amendment make : 50 , page 2 , line 29 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 30 and insert " a machine from which any of the follow product may be buy or from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale — " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be one of a number of amendment extend prohibition on vend machine to cover machine from which product be dispense in connection with a sale ( for example if payment for cigarette be make at a self - service till and the customer get a code which be input into a machine which dispense the cigarette ) . clause 10 - sale of vaping or nicotine product to under 18 Amendments make : 51 , page 5 , line 19 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) that they take such step as may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State to verify that the customer be at least 18 year old , or " . this amendment allow regulation to specify step that a seller may take to benefit from the defence in clause 10 ( 2 ) of the Bill . the Bill currently focusse on paper document . the purpose of the new power be to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document . amendment 52 , page 5 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) before make regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers if the regulation contain provision which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if contain in an Act of the Senedd . ( 2B ) regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) be subject to the negative resolution procedure . " this be consequential to Amendment 51 . Amendment 53 , page 5 , line 24 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendment 51 . clause 12 - vaping and nicotine product vend machine Amendments make : 54 , page 6 , line 13 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 14 and insert " a machine — ( a ) from which nicotine product may be buy , or ( b ) from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 50 . Amendment 55 , page 6 , line 15 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 16 and insert " a machine — ( a ) from which vaping product may be buy , or ( b ) from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale . " — ( Ashley Dalton . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 50 . clause 13 - Displays of product or price in England Amendment make : 56 , page 6 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( aa ) tobacco relate device , " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) clause 13 confer a regulation - make power to impose prohibition , requirement or limitation in relation to the display of product and price in England . the amendment extend the power to cover tobacco relate device ( which would include thing like heated tobacco device and pipe and bong that enable tobacco to be consume ) . clause 14 - Displays of product or price in Wales Amendment make : 57 , page 7 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( aa ) tobacco relate device , " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) clause 14 confer a regulation - make power to impose prohibition , requirement or limitation in relation to the display of product and price in Wales . the amendment extend the power to cover tobacco relate device ( which would include thing like heated tobacco device and pipe and bong that enable tobacco to be consume ) . clause 23 - restrict premise order Amendment make : 58 , page 13 , line 24 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this remove the express provision that prohibition impose by a restricted premise order apply to sale by mean of a machine or other mean . the natural meaning of " sale " include sale by any mean . express provision here might make reader mistakenly think it be intend to have a narrow meaning elsewhere . clause 28 - restrict sale order Amendment make : 59 , page 15 , line 29 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this remove certain consequence of a restricted sale order in relation to vend machine . vend machine for tobacco , vape and nicotine product be in any event ban by clause 3 and 12 . clause 38 - fix penalty : use of proceed Amendment propose : 1 , page 20 , line 19 , leave out from " be " to the end of line and insert " be allocate by the relevant Local Authority to public health project . " — ( Helen Morgan . ) this amendment would direct fund from Fixed Penalty Notice fine to public health initiative as determine by Local Authorities . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Sarah Dyke will Forster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ben Lake Edward Leigh James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Neil o ' Brien Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Wendy Chamberlain Susan Murray Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 72 , Noes 304 . question accordingly negative . clause 45 - power to extend Part 1 to other product Amendment make : 60 , page 23 , line 4 , leave out from second " to " to end of line 7 and insert " a tobacco relate device . " — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this amendment change the wording to reflect the new definition insert by Amendment 62 , but do not change the effect of clause 45 . clause 46 - power to amend list of identity document Amendment make : 61 , page 23 , line 16 , leave out clause 46 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this leave out the power to amend list of identity document in clause 1 and 10 since the list be be remove ( and replace with enable power to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document ) . clause 48 - Interpretation of Part 1 Amendments make : 62 , page 24 , line 21 , at end insert — " " tobacco relate device " mean — ( a ) a device , other than a vape , which enable a tobacco product to be consume ( for example , a heated tobacco device or pipe ) , or ( b ) an item which be intend to form part of such a device ; " . this be consequential to Amendments 56 and 57 . amendment 63 , page 24 , line 24 , leave out from begin to end of line 29 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendments 47 and 51 . clause 59 - extension of offence to vaping and nicotine product Amendment make : 64 , page 30 , line 39 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 41 and insert — " a machine from which any of the follow product may be buy or from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale — " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 50 . clause 68 - age of sale for tobacco product etc amendment make : 65 , page 35 , leave out line 35 to 37 and insert — " ( a ) that they take such step as may be specify in regulation make by the Department to verify that the customer be bear before 1 January 2009 , or " . this amendment allow regulation to specify step that a seller may take to benefit from the defence in new article 3 ( 2 ) . the provision currently focusse on paper document . the purpose of the new power be to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document . amendment 66 , page 36 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) regulation under paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) be subject to negative resolution . " this be consequential to Amendment 65 . Amendment 67 , page 36 , leave out line 3 to 10 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendment 65 . clause 70 - Tobacco vend machine Amendment make : 68 , page 37 , line 3 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 4 and insert — " a machine from which any of the follow product may be buy or from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 50 . clause 76 - sale of vaping or nicotine product to under 18 Amendments make : 69 , page 39 , leave out line 32 to 34 and insert — " ( a ) that they take such step as may be specify in regulation make by the Department to verify that the customer be at least 18 year old , or " . this amendment allow regulation to specify step that a seller may take to benefit from the defence in new Article 4h ( 2 ) . the provision currently focusse on paper document . the purpose of the new power be to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document . amendment 70 , page 39 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) regulation under paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) be subject to negative resolution . " this be consequential to amendment 69 . amendment 71 , page 39 , line 37 , leave out from begin to end of line 7 on page 40 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to amendment 69 . clause 78 - vaping and nicotine product vend machine Amendments make : 72 , page 41 , line 1 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 2 and insert " a machine — ( a ) from which nicotine product may be buy , or ( b ) from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale ; " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 50 . amendment 73 , page 41 , line 3 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 4 and insert " a machine — ( a ) from which vaping product may be buy , or ( b ) from which they be dispense to a customer in connection with a sale . " — ( Ashley Dalton . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 50 . clause 79 - Displays of product and price in Northern Ireland Amendment make : 74 , page 41 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( aa ) tobacco relate device , " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) clause 79 confer a regulation - make power to impose prohibition , requirement or limitation in relation to the display of product and price in Northern Ireland . the amendment extend the power to cover tobacco relate device ( which would include thing like heated tobacco device and pipe and bong that enable tobacco to be consume . clause 82 - Power to amend list of identity document Amendment make : 75 , page 43 , line 24 , leave out clause 82 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this leave out the power to amend list of identity document in Articles 3 and 4h since the list be be remove ( and replace with enable power to accommodate digital method of verification as well as method involve paper document ) . clause 83 - interpretation of 1978 order Amendments make : 76 , page 44 , line 26 , at end insert — " ' tobacco relate device ' mean — ( a ) a device , other than a vape , which enable a tobacco product to be consume ( for example , a heated tobacco device or pipe ) , or ( b ) an item which be intend to form part of such a device ; " . this be consequential to Amendment 74 . amendment 77 , page 44 , line 29 , leave out from begin to end of line 33 . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendments 65 and 69 . clause 86 - Power to extend legislation to other product Amendment make : 78 , page 48 , line 19 , leave out from " to " to end of line 23 and insert " a tobacco relate device " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this amendment change the wording to reflect the new definition insert by Amendment 76 , but do not change the effect of clause 86 . clause 88 - Transitional provision Amendment make : 79 , page 49 , line 19 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this be consequential to Amendment 75 . clause 112 - interpretation of part 5 Amendment make : 80 , page 62 , line 12 , after " consumed " insert — " ( for example , a heated tobacco device or pipe ) " . — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this amendment bring the wording of the definition of " tobacco relate device " in clause 112 into line with that insert by Amendments 62 and 76 but do not change the legal effect . clause 136 - addition of smoke - free place in England Amendment propose : 85 , page 77 , line 8 , leave out from " smoke - free " to end of line 15 and insert " a place in England that be — ( a ) an NHS property or hospital building , ( b ) a child ' s playground , or ( c ) a nursery , school , college or high education premise . " — ( Dr Caroline Johnson . ) this amendment restrict the Secretary of State to only be able to designate open or unenclosed space outside a hospital , child ' s playground , nursery , school , college or high education premise as smoke - free area . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Mims davy Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Paul Holmes Harriet Cross Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 92 , Noes 303 . question accordingly negative . clause 168 - commencement : part 1 to 4 Amendment make : 81 , page 121 , line 10 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) and insert — " ( 7 ) the following provision come into force ( so far as not in force by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) ) on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulation appoint — ( a ) section ( age verification in relation to tobacco and vaping product etc ) ( age verification in relation to tobacco and vaping product etc ) ; ( b ) section 65 and Schedule 9 ( extension of retailer register etc in Scotland ) . " — ( Ashley Dalton . ) this amendment produce the effect that nc11 will come into force on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulation appoint . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . let I start by thank hon . member on both side of the Chamber for their positive and constructive engagement today and more generally as the Bill have progress through the House . let I put on record my sincere thank to all member of the Public Bill Committee , who scrutinise the Bill extremely thoroughly and bring it to this stage . the Bill be the next step in a long history of action on tobacco , but as the House be aware , it be not a step that this Labour Government have take alone . I thank the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) for his ambition to make a difference to the future of our country by champion the previous Tobacco and Vapes Bill . the Bill that we be discuss today be even strong in its ambition to tackle smoking and youth vaping , in part thank to the contribution and debate from mps from all party on these most critical of issue . I thank the Opposition Front Benchers for their engagement with the Bill , particularly the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who have be a determined campaigner for action on youth vape for a number of year . I also thank my official in the Department for Health and Social Care and the devolve government , the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel , the Government Legal Department and the Clerks , whose tireless work and support on the Bill have enable the development of this extraordinary legislation . when this Government take office , we promise to create a smokefree generation . today we be deliver on that promise . by create a smokefree UK , we be invest in a healthy society for all . the Bill will tackle the concern rise in youth vaping and reduce the immense burden that tobacco - relate illness place on our society and our NHS . I consider it a great privilege to have oversee these last part of scrutiny of the Bill , and I urge all right hon . and hon . member to support it to proceed to the other place . I be conscious of time , so I will be brief . I recognise the sincerely and strongly hold view on both side of the debate , which have play out with courtesy in this Chamber and in Committee , where member have show respect for one another and for differ view . I want to put on record my gratitude to all right hon . and hon . member who have speak . I congratulate the Minister on be throw in at the deep end and take through a piece of legislation with courtesy , very swiftly after she be appoint . I thank the Clerks , the whip and those who serve on the Bill Committee . I do want to single out the phenomenal work do by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , and her staff , Angus Forbes - Cable and Joey Ricciardiello , who do so much on the Bill , especially in Committee . as ever , even though there be strong feeling on both side , the House have show itself able to grapple with difficult issue with courtesy and thoughtfulness . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Victoria Atkins Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Steve Barclay Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Richard Foord Peter Fortune Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Helen Grant Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Neil Hudson Claire Hughes Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb John Lamont Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Robbie Moore layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ben Spencer Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Rishi Sunak Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Derek Twigg Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Taiwo Owatemi Gerald Jones Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alistair Carmichael Lewis cock John Cooper Harriet Cross Bobby Dean Iain Duncan Smith Nigel Farage will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Sarah Gibson Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Richard Holden Paul Holmes Danny Kruger Katie Lam Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Jack Rankin David Reed Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Bradley Thomas John Whittingdale Sammy Wilson Edward Leigh Desmond Swayne the House divide : Ayes 366 , Noes 41 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate delegate legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Town and Country Planning that the draft Town and Country Planning ( fee and Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 February , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , community Infrastructure Levy that the draft Community Infrastructure Levy ( Amendment etc . ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 February , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . resettlement of Ukrainians : Coatbridge Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) it be a privilege to bring the resettlement of Ukrainians in Coatbridge to the House this evening . we recently recognise the third anniversary of Russia ' s barbaric and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the House have rightly be unite in its condemnation of Putin and his illegal action . as have be reference often in the House , both the current and previous government , devolve Governments and local authority step up to support Ukraine , as do ordinary people who engage in extraordinary act of kindness towards those force to flee from their home and seek refuge . I will focus much of my remark on the effort in my constituency , recognise nationally as an example of great practice . I wholly appreciate , however , that such example be see across the country . it be also important to recognise the presence in the House early of a delegation from Bring Kids back , who be work to return ten of thousand of ukrainian child who have be abduct by russian force . the whole House will stand with they in their ongoing fight , and I commend my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for raise that at Prime Minister ' s question . in June 2022 , North Lanarkshire council in partnership with central Government deliver the Warm Scots welcome programme in my constituency . the council immediately begin work to re - provision and renovate 200 empty flat at High Coats in Coatbridge and in Birkshaw tower in Wishaw , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke ( Pamela Nash ) . those tower , previously earmark for demolition , be redevelop and support 400 Ukrainians into permanent accommodation . shortly thereafter , the three " welcome hotel " in North Lanarkshire that be establish in the week follow the invasion be close . health and education provision be also arrange for the family , oversee by a cross - agency support network . I should note that successful integration into the community of Coatbridge be no accident . North Lanarkshire ' s resettlement team have effectively support refugee from crisis area across the world over many year : from the Congo , Sudan , Syria , Afghanistan and now Ukraine . I commend the hon . gentleman for an absolutely superb Adjournment debate , because every one of we can say " hear , hear " to what he be do in his constituency . in my constituency , similar thing happen . ballynahinch high school have a class of ukrainian child with a ukrainian teacher and ukrainian classroom assistant . ukrainian also have employment in Finnebrogue Foods , Mash Direct and Willowbrook Foods . that tell I that we welcome the Ukrainians , as he do in his constituency . I commend he for this debate and say " hear , hear ; well do for help the Ukrainians . " we be here to help . the term tireless advocate be often use in the House , and the hon . Gentleman have certainly be a tireless advocate for ukrainian refugee over many year . I commend he and the work he have do in his constituency and across Parliament . the resettlement team in North Lanarkshire have work diligently over many year and it have be commend for its work and recognise with award from the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities and the Local Government Chronicle for its effort . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this important debate on this award - win project . do he agree that it be vital that we share good practice across the country with local authority and government in order to be able to plan and respond quickly in time of crisis , to give people the care and security that they desperately need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the resettlement team in North Lanarkshire have be share such good practice , not just in Scotland but beyond , and that be something I be sure the Minister would be interested in as well . my hon . friend do a lot of work on this issue in her area of West Lothian when she be deputy leader of the council , and I commend she for her effort . I would also like to mention that three of the ukrainian refugee have now get job with the resettlement team , which be absolutely fantastic . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring forward this important debate . in my constituency , like his , we have a number of ukrainian family , who be most welcome , contribute to both the community and the economy . I commend all the organisation that have employ refugee , and I take this opportunity to thank Glasgow airport , which in 2022 invite those arrive in Paisley to a job fair , result in a number of refugee secure employment in the airport industry . do my hon . friend agree that the future of these ukrainian refugee should be support ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . Glasgow airport be one of a number of business that step up to the mark and support ukrainian refugee , and it be the same in my constituency as well . a number of establishment operate within my constituency have engage in similar effort over the past several year . that be welcome to see , and I appreciate her comment . I would like to put on record my thank to the housing convenor for North Lanarkshire , Councillor Michael McPake , and the head of housing , Stephen Llewellyn , for their strategic focus on ensure the programme ' s success . in my maiden speech , I reference the long history of immigration in my constituency , from the Lithuanian community to those with italian heritage , from people from Pakistan and India to , of course , my area ' s significant irish diaspora . that heritage be apparent a few week ago on Coatbridge main street when hundred gather for the St Patrick ' s day festival lead by local champion Tom Nolan . I can now say that follow the ukrainian resettlement in Coatbridge , not only the irish national day be celebrate in the town ; there be a well attend celebration of ukrainian Independence Day in August 2023 at the town ' s Summerlee museum . the programme include performance of ukrainian music and dance . it be incredibly powerful to have the virtual attendance of family member and friend on FaceTime call from Ukraine , who watch on as ukrainian child in Coatbridge honour their heritage . there have be celebration of the nativity hold by the local ukrainian community , as well as museum exhibition about the plight of ukrainian refugee . the fact that the Ukrainians who have settle in Coatbridge feel comfortable to celebrate their national heritage and to engage the local community in do so highlight the warm welcome they have receive from people in my constituency . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring to the House this important debate on the resettlement of Ukrainians . do he agree that not only local authority and business across Scotland welcome Ukrainians , but family open their door and welcome Ukrainians into their home ? it be an absolutely fantastic thing to have do , and to the benefit of Ukrainians , who have now settle into these community and become part of they . would he join I in congratulate and pay tribute to all those family for do so ? order . before the hon . Gentleman continue , I gently remind member that when they be make intervention they should do so through the Chair — not least because that enable the microphone to pick up what they have say . I can assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my hon . Friend make a good point . as I say , they be extraordinary action take by ordinary people , who open up their home to those flee the most horrendous situation . my hon . friend be absolutely right that in those early day that be a critical action take by people not just in my constituency and hers but across the country . the warm welcome receive by Ukrainians be in stark contrast to the violence continue to emanate in Ukraine from the russian invader . perhaps my scottish colleague will have read the recent article in Holyrood magazine , which contain testimony from resident at High Coats . one resident — Olga — speak of the challenging initial period in Scotland live in emergency accommodation on MS Victoria , dock in Leith . her only request of the resettlement team be to have sunlight after five month of live in a ship ' s dim cabin . with the move to Coatbridge , Olga say her son begin to smile again , make friend in the local school . local primary school , namely Greenhill primary school and St Patrick ' s primary school , have embrace thrive ukrainian pupil , who have in some case have to learn English from scratch . some 60 ukrainian child in High Coats be part of the ukrainian kid club support by the Mission of Innocents organisation . the club be a safe and supportive environment for the child to develop the sort of talent that have be so visibly display in the cultural event I mention early . the High Coats tower now host a full range of cultural and wellbee opportunity , include english language class , walk club and employability programme , and it even establish a tenant and resident association , which be great to see . the achievement and success of this programme have be the result of a multidisciplinary effort incorporate housing service , health partner , school , social work department , community learning and development , faith group , and local organisation in the voluntary sector . this comprehensive effort , touch on all area of public service and community partnership , make a big difference to those flee the turmoil of war . it can be an antidote to the disarray and insecure feeling that so many refugee experience . permanent accommodation , as have be provide in North Lanarkshire , can also make a last difference to circumstance and outcome . as I have say , there be real lesson that the Minister and her Home Office team could learn from the approach take in North Lanarkshire , and I know that the Scottish and Welsh Governments have closely monitor the programme because it be an innovative local solution to the crisis . it would be remiss of I not to say that it be important that the Department continue to look at the situation regard visa , as there be grow trepidation among ukrainian refugee . the Department should give further consideration to additional step , and to the possibility of permanent right to remain . I appreciate that there remain uncertainty about the conflict , but some Ukrainians be concerned about the expiration of their 18 - month visa extension and the impact of that . at the commencement of the conflict and in the month and year since , people in my constituency refuse to walk by on the other side of the street ; they step up , as people have do across the country . for those who have flee the terror , Ukraine be and will always be home , and never far from their thought be those who be lose or in peril — family and friend whose life have be take prematurely , or who continue to face down russian aggressor on the frontline while they defend their city , town , village , and land , be it small or large . their thought be also with the ukrainian child so cruelly steal — at least 19 , 500 of they — and their lost home , lose connection , lose livelihood and lose time . they seek a lasting and just peace , as we all do , but until then , we must and will stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine and its people . Slava Ukraini . it be a pleasure to contribute to this short debate . I will be brief , but I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) for secure this debate , and add my comment to his in praise of the excellent work do by people and community in his constituency . it be a pleasure to hear such heart - warm story come out of such a dark and difficult situation . like my hon . friend ' s constituency , my home city of Glasgow have a long , proud record of welcome refugee ; the city have eventually become their home in many case . my constituency of Glasgow West have a particular record of welcome people flee conflict in their native land . in the 1970 , Drumchapel play host to many people flee Chile because of the brutal and fascist regime of General Pinochet . many of those refugee be fortunate enough to be able to return home after Pinochet ' s downfall , but other choose to stay and make Scotland their home , and many of those who stay end in Lanarkshire , close to where my hon . friend be from . in the present day , my area have welcome the ukrainian refugee flee Putin ' s murderous onslaught in their country . many of they , as my hon . Friend say , be originally accommodate in cruise liner — not the good of start , perhaps , but at least it be a safe refuge for they , and it be there that many of the cultural activity and school classroom that have be develop begin . the fact that people be together in a confine space obviously help make that happen . the joyous part of the story for both the ukrainian and chilean community be that our local glaswegian community have be so enrich by be able to be part of their life and their celebration , and they have learn so much about another culture on the way . over the past three year , I have attend many concert and church service that have be both move and enjoyable . on 24 August last year , I be delighted to again join in the ukrainian independence day family fun event in Victoria Park in my constituency , an annual event that be much anticipate . with workshop , music and dance , as well as sporting event , it be truly a fun day , but I hope nobody will ask I to demonstrate what I learn , as I definitely do not have the skill to replicate ukrainian art . I try very hard , but I be afraid that my attempt be pretty pathetic . I be not plan to intervene , but I be minded to mention the 80th anniversary of Operation Open Door , in which the Royal Navy go to Norway to rescue 500 refugee who be under extreme terror from the Nazis . they be bring to my constituency , to the village of Neilston , where they find sanctuary and humanity among the villager . do she agree that the relationship and cultural exchange that she describe will last for generation , as they have in my constituency ? I agree with my hon . friend . when there be more time , I will share with he my experience of be the manager of Glasgow dental hospital , where many norwegian dentist be train after the second world war . in the context of the ukrainian celebration in my constituency , I must mention the Friends of Victoria Park , who do much to promote and protect the park , and who have be generous host ; the recent installation of a ukrainian bench in the park be a visible gesture of solidarity . Glasgow also now have an Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain club that promote a range of service for Ukrainians live in the city and beyond . I mention early that the Chileans who live in Glasgow be eventually able to make a decision about where they wish to live . I sincerely hope that the time will not be too far away when our ukrainian friend can also safely make that decision for themselves . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) for secure this important Adjournment debate on the issue of displace Ukrainians here in the UK , and the resettlement of Ukrainians in his constituency . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) for her impassioned speech highlight the culture of Ukrainians , the work do and effort make to integrate the community , and the contribution that Ukrainians make in the UK . my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill be a dedicated supporter of those Ukrainians who have find sanctuary in his constituency . I thank all hon . member here who have make significant contribution , show that this be the story of not just one constituency , but many of our constituency across the country . I recognise the work of North Lanarkshire council , which respond to the call from the UK and Scottish Governments to extend the hand of support to those Ukrainians who be flee and come here in their time of need . I also recognise the work that my hon . friend have do as a councillor over a number of year , lead on many programme and be a lead voice on this issue . as the Minister know , last month the ukrainian permission extension scheme come into force , offer a further 18 month in the UK to our ukrainian friend . will she shed some light on the situation face those ukrainian guest who seek to enter further education , perhaps for three year , but who be unable to do so because they only have an 18 month extension to their visa ? I will cover that when I come to my point on the UPE scheme . I pay particular regard to the effort and determination that team in North Lanarkshire have show and to their support for ukrainian family seek sanctuary . we hear about the rapid refurbishment of property and how ukrainian family have be able to find good accommodation and be support to establish themselves and integrate into the community . we have see in all our constituency — indeed , I see it myself when I come to Scotland last month — the support give to child to settle in school and nursery and how they have be welcome in our community . I also recognise the support give to help ukrainian family to seek employment , be more self - sufficient and extend their contribution to our society . there be a number of initiative in the area of culture , art , dance and so on , all of which be important in stay connect with Ukraine , but be also important — particularly for child and family — for connect with the wide community and ensure that a sense of diversity be truly appreciated . I thank all my hon . friend and all hon . member for their support for Ukrainians in their constituency and for their stability and certainty in the UK . a number of issue have be raise . I will broadly say that we engage regularly with the ukrainian community and its representative . as well as meet member of the ukrainian community in Scotland last month , when it be very valuable to hear of their experience in different part of the country directly , I attend the service at the ukrainian Catholic church in London to commemorate the third anniversary of the full - scale , horrific and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine . I assure the House that the Government stand in solidarity , as I know we all do , with Ukraine and the ukrainian people against Vladimir Putin ' s unprovoked and barbaric war . along with our ally , we remain unwavering and united in our support for Ukraine ' s defence of its freedom and pursuit of peace and justice . my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill also raise the horror of child be abduct . to demonstrate our continue commitment to and support for Ukraine , early this year the Government , lead by the Prime Minister , sign the UK - Ukraine 100 - year partnership agreement , lay the foundation for close collaboration and co - operation between our two country . the partnership seek to ensure an endure alliance for life beyond this conflict , cover economic and trade co - operation , investment in energy and infrastructure , and cultural tie , include the twinning of british and ukrainian school . that build on the really important work that be go on and the relationship be build between british and ukrainian child both here and in Ukraine , which will be important for that relationship in future year . thank to the immense generosity of the british people , we have offer or extend temporary sanctuary to more than 300 , 000 Ukrainians and their family here in the UK through the bespoke Ukraine visa scheme . the scheme have provide much - need sanctuary to our ukrainian friend for the past few year . we continue to do that , and the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme remain open . the Ukraine scheme provide an initial period of three year ' permission to stay in the UK , recognise the inherent uncertainty of the conflict . understandably , as time have pass , there have be a need to provide further certainty to those who have come to the UK . that be why in February the Government launch the new Ukraine permission extension scheme , which provide a further 18 month ' permission to stay in the UK and a continuation of right to work , to study and to access benefit . section 3c leave be apply from when an application be successfully submit . we want to make sure that student can complete their study . I know that there have be question about how that be implement , and I can certainly share some information about whether we can make that a bit easy , beyond the support already in place . we be work with university and other on this , include whether support be sufficient or whether we need to do anything differently . the launch of the scheme demonstrate our continued support of Ukrainians here in the UK , and the offer of further permission to stay , along with the continuation of the same right and benefit , provide vital certainty and security . member have raise point about settlement . as I have say , it be a tribute to the british people and the leadership of government and Members across the House that we have be able to see so many Ukrainians here in the UK , able to support themselves and their family through incredibly difficult circumstance and live their life independently . I have hear the matter raise by member , and the ukrainian scheme have always seek to provide temporary sanctuary to those displace by the war in Ukraine . the scheme be not and have never be route to settlement , but at its heart that reflect the wish of the Ukrainian Government for the future return of their citizen . the importance of that can not be overstate . there be million more displaced Ukrainians in Europe and beyond , particularly woman and child , and as event in Ukraine develop , our support remain steadfast . my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and bellshill can be assure that we continue to keep the Ukraine scheme under review to ensure that they continue to meet the need of Ukrainians . in closing , I thank he again for secure this Adjournment debate and allow important contribution from member to be hear . question put and agree to . House adjourn .