Meur ra — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I begin by wish his Majesty the King a very happy birthday — a sentiment that I be sure be share on both side of the House ? stand here in this House , I be more aware than ever of the incredible privilege that it be to be here on behalf of South East Cornwall , a place that I love and be proud to call my home . I do not stand here alone ; rather , I stand with those who come before I , inspire I or support I . I be especially proud to be the first Labour MP to represent the area , a wonderful community fill with history , resilience and a deep local pride . it be a love for the area and a steely determination to fight for its good interest that unite my predecessor and I . I pay tribute to Sheryll Murray for her work to champion public and rescue service and the local fishing industry , and to Colin Breed , who serve before she . I intend to represent our community by extend a hand to bridge political divide , and by serve with the determination and humility that I have see illuminate the path of all those I most admire in public service . today ' s debate offer I the opportunity to mention in particular some of those woman who teach I that I , too , could stand , include our late friend Jo Cox , and the formidable Harriet Harman , both of whom I have have the honour of work with . South East Cornwall be a stunningly beautiful rural constituency , define by the natural boundary of the River Fowey in the west and the River Tamar in the East , ancient moorland to the north , and beautiful cornish coastline to the south , include the unique Rame peninsula , perfect for sea swimming , surf and sailing . it be a place alive with history , from Restormel castle in Lostwithiel , to the historic harbour at Polperro , whose wind lane whisper of a history of pirate and smuggler . our economy be a story of resilience , weave from the thread of small business , include in the market garden of the Tamar valley , tourism , farming and an inshore fishing fleet that deserve more recognition and support . the market town of Liskeard , at the geographical heart of the area , provide important place for people to meet and form new enterprise , such as Wildanet . most importantly , it be the perfect place to find a Barnecutts pasty — and , unlike other member of this House , I do know how to eat a pasty properly . we look both to the west across Cornwall , and to the east beyond the Tamar , for many crucial job . the dockyard in Devonport be particularly important to the town of Saltash and Torpoint , where many local resident be employ . torpoint be also home to HMS Raleigh , which provide exceptional naval training and serve as a deep source of local pride . South East Cornwall have a proud cultural heritage , celebrate in long - stand community tradition such as the Gorsedh — hold in Callington for the first time in 40 year — the Black Prince parade and the Saltash May fair . that heritage be express through the art at stert theatre and art centre , Calstock Arts , and Maker Heights . community there be tight - knit , but they be often keep apart geographically by both distance and the lack of transport connection . but don ' t get I start on transport problem in Cornwall , Madam Deputy Speaker — you can expect to hear from I again on that topic . there be incredible people across the constituency who go the extra mile , with a community spirit find at Saltash Pride , in those work at food bank or in care home , and at the Core , where I hold my first surgery . it be a place rich in so many way , but there be real challenge : above average rate of child poverty , fragile seasonal employment and house price that be out of reach for many . in my previous work , I have see some of the big problem we face at home and abroad : the trap of extreme poverty that be so difficult to escape , the threat of instability and conflict , and the challenge pose by climate change . I have also see the resolve and determination of people to overcome those same challenge , and I have be strike by how the hard of situation sometimes bring out the very good of we . that spirit can be find in organisation such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which I be so proud to work for , or at local event such as Liskeard Unlocked , which celebrate the town ' s share value of freedom , safety and solidarity with its twin ukrainian town of Kopychyntsi . I know that care for my mother throughout her prolonged and painful death from cancer — something that too many family face — have lead I to this place . without that experience , I would simply not be here . she tell I to find solace in purpose , and I have . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my family give I a bedrock of certainty that anyone , anywhere , can make a positive difference . my grandad , injure in an industrial accident , would have I sit next to he on his green leather sofa after school to watch Prime Minister ' s question . I have no doubt that he would be shock but proud that I stand now by these green leather Benches , which feel so very far away from our life and experience . clearly , child ' s early experience be so formative , and early education be so pivotal — just look at the trouble that early experience have get I into now . I do not want where you be bear to limit where you be go , or what you can do to be determine by who you know . break down the barrier to opportunity be not a campaign slogan for I ; it be a guide principle , and what I intend to deliver for my community . the beauty of our landscape in our special corner of Cornwall be not just a backdrop to our life ; it be the backbone of our economy and integral to our identity and wellbeing . I be committed to support our farmer and our fishing industry — the lifeblood of our community . they provide our food security , and they have a critically important relationship with the landscape . I be committed to improve our transport link , which currently hamper growth and divide community , and to secure well access to healthcare service and provision for special educational need and disability in the constituency . I be also committed to preserve the rugged , distinct natural environment that so define our region and bring huge economic value to our vital tourist industry . Cornwall help to power Britain ' s first industrial revolution , and it now stand ready to lead the new green industrial revolution , harness new technology and the aspiration of our young people to create a sustainable future . South East Cornwall be both a gateway to Cornwall and a bridge to the rest of the UK , as embody by the Tamar bridge . I intend also to be a bridge for our community , and to work tirelessly to connect Cornwall with the resource , opportunity and support that it deserve , so I stand here , ultimately , with gratitude for the incredible people of South East Cornwall . I see generosity and determination that inspire I daily . that be why I be here , and it be why I be honour to be work to connect our past and our present , and to help build our future together .