Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales . the UK Government fully recognise the challenge pose by cost of living pressure that have come about as a result of the covid pandemic and the invasion of Ukraine . that be why they be provide £ 104 billion over 2022 to 2025 to support household and individual across the UK — an average of £ 3 , 700 per household . on Monday evening , ITV News feature a Bevan Foundation study on pensioner poverty in Wales . with nearly a quarter of Wales ' s population be over 65 , more pensioner be experience poverty in Wales than anywhere else in the UK . the " make do and mend " generation , who experience impose rationing as child , be now self - deny , with one in 10 pensioner skip meal and one in five go without heat at some point this winter . what do the UK Government intend to do about this dire situation ? the UK Government fully recognise the importance of support pensioner . that be why we have commit to the triple lock and make sure that , even through the difficult crisis we have face over the past few year , pension have rise in line with inflation . on top of that , there have be an extra payment of £ 300 for pensioner , and the UK Government ' s policy of bring down inflation be go to help everyone in Wales and the UK , include all pensioner . I hope the hon . Lady will agree that that be a much well focus than , for example , bring in road user charging , which be go to hit pensioner who want to drive car in Wales . Citizens Advice Cymru have state that during 2023 , it refer over 21 , 000 people to food bank in Wales , almost double the number for 2021 . what do that say about the impact of the Government ' s policy on ordinary people in Wales ? as I have just outline , the UK Government be absolutely focused on support those with the least in Wales and across the United Kingdom . that be why the UK Government ' s policy of bring down inflation to around half have help everyone , and it be why the UK Government have make sure that benefit have rise in line with inflation . household where there be benefit have receive a £ 900 payment , and household where there be disability have receive a £ 150 payment . I do not for one moment doubt the fact that many people be face serious difficulty at the moment , but this Government be commit to help they . when I visit food bank , I be tell that all sort of people have to go and visit food bank on a temporary basis — they should not be use to score cheap political point . Welsh Labour ' s reduction of business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % be already have an impact , with small business in Wrexham say that they be go to fold . despite the UK Government maintain the rate at 75 % , the Welsh Government be focus more on waste £ 140 million on a 20 mph scheme and increase the number of Senedd politician . do the Secretary of State agree that the Welsh Labour Government should focus on what the people of Wales need , not what socialist Senedd politician want to dictate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be disgraceful that pub in Wales be go to be pay , on average , thousand of pound more in business rate because the Welsh Senedd Government have not pass on the money that have be give to they by the UK Government , and it be disgraceful that small tourism business be face a tourism tax levy . if the Welsh Government want to focus on the priority of small business and community in Wales , they should indeed scrap the plan to spend £ 140 million on extra Senedd Members . do my right hon . friend agree that one of the good way in whichthe Welsh Labour Government can help with the cost of living be by help business create job and support employer , such as the iconic Lobster Pot on Anglesey , rather than increase business rate punitively and increase the number of Senedd Members by a staggering 60 % ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . she be a huge champion of business in her constituency , and it be a shame that the Senedd do not look to her example of championing business instead of impose all sort of extra taxis , while — as she mention — waste money on scheme such as create extra Senedd Members and bring in road charge on the M4 . even my own Labour council be suggest bring back severn bridge toll . I call the shadow Minister . some 8 , 000 homeowner in Wales face the Tory mortgage bombshell this month , with household project to pay an extra £ 240 per month as their fix - rate deal come to an end . despite the conservative party ' s opposition , the Welsh Government have put in place measure to prevent repossession , and a UK Labour Government would require bank to protect homeowner . what be the Secretary of State do to help homeowner face massive bill cause by the conservative party ' s economic mismanagement ? the UK Government have put in place a number of measure to support any mortgage holder face difficulty at the moment , but the most important measure have be to bring down inflation . inflation actually peak at a high rate in Europe than in the United Kingdom . inflation be now down at 4 % — much less than half of what it be previously — which will have a beneficial impact on mortgage interest rate over the long term . I ask the hon . Lady whether , in all fairness , she think that her party ' s plan to borrow £ 28 billion a year , which be go to increase inflation and have a very bad impact on mortgage interest rate , will be good or bad for homeowner ? I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr , Llefarydd . the Government ' s own estimate warn that new Brexit border check will increase the cost of fresh import by £ 330 million and worsen food inflation . the Secretary of State use to dismiss warning of Brexit border control as scare story . will he now admit how wrong he be , and recognise that the good way to reduce food inflation , which sit at an eye - watering 8 % , would be to rejoin the single market ? I make no apology for rubbish the scare story that come out before Brexit take place . we be tell that it be go to lead to the collapse of the economy , to the collapse of house price , to the end of fresh fruit and veg be sell in shop , and even to no more Magnum ice cream . I think we be even go to run out of Viagra as well at one point . the reality be that none of those scare story have happen , but it be a bit ironic that the right hon . Lady , the leader of the Plaid Cymru group , be demand that we rejoin the European Union while at the same time want to take Wales out of one of the most successful financial union — order . Secretary of State , I be this way , not that way , and you be get a little carry away . there be a few more question , and Liz Saville Roberts have another one for you . that be a Brexit fantasy , and now we look at the wonder of the UK . Northern Ireland be set to receive over £ 3 billion and a fair funding settlement from the Treasury , which I welcome . that include million of pound to help balance budget . meanwhile in Wales , councillor face a budget black hole of £ 646 million , which be set to decimate our social service over the next three year . these cut will be devastating for people leave without resource during the cost of living crisis . as Wales ' s man in the Cabinet , what have the Secretary of State do to demand equivalent fair funding for Wales ? first , I must point out to the right hon . Lady that , since leave the European Union , our growth rate have be well than that of Germany , and our manufacturing have now exceed that of France . as far as fair funding for Wales be concern , we receive 20 % more per head to spend on devolve service than be spend in England . one thing the right hon . Lady and I might agree on be that it be high time the Welsh Labour Government explain why we have long wait list and low educational standard , despite have more money to spend on devolve service . energy Mix what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of the energy mix in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of the energy mix in Wales . that be lively , Mr Speaker . the UK have a secure and diverse energy system , and Wales continue to play a key role . the UK Government be go far to ensure our energy security by support our oil and gas industry , and invest to scale up our renewable energy production , such as float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . many of my constituent make the long journey round to work at Hinkley , yet we have have this Government in power for 14 year and we have see no new nuclear deliver in Wales , despite our proud history of generation , with its significant opportunity to lower energy bill , deliver high - quality job and reduce carbon emission . where on earth be their plan , and why be they not get on with deliver it ? I very much welcome the hon . Gentleman mention nuclear . I seem to recall that , when his party be in power , Labour do next to nothing to advance the cause of nuclear energy in this country . it give I ample opportunity to pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) , who have commit the Government to everything we have do on Wylfa so far . progress be be make , in stark contrast to the record of his party . we have have 14 year of successive Tory Governments , who have all have the chance to invest in the transition to net zero . instead , they have choose to backslide on climate commitment , and it be work people across my constituency of Cardiff North who be pay the price . with this Government intent on issue new oil and gas licence , what do the Minister say to family in my constituency who be now pay treble for their energy bill ? I would point out that it be this Government who step in with £ 96 billion of support to mitigate the impact of those energy bill . I completely disagree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment of our record on net zero , and I would point out that , when her party be in power , 7 % of our energy supply come from renewable source . fourteen year ! if the hon . Lady will let I finish the point , the figure be now just under 50 % , and that be the record of this party ' s 14 year in power . my hon . friend mention the new industry of float offshore wind , which have huge potential to create a large number of high - quality job in place such as Milford Haven and Port Talbot . the two port both have bid in with the UK Government to the FLOWMIS port infrastructure scheme , which will be key to see this vision realise . when can the port expect to hear back about those bid ? I thank my right hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee , for that question . I be delighted that today the Crown Estate be host a bidder day to drive forward plan for innovative float wind project in the Celtic sea . the UK Government be support flow through our contract for difference scheme , secure a long - term pipeline of project in the Celtic sea . I would be happy to write to he with a further update on when more progress can be discuss . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on the issue of the energy mix , the Tata worker I meet last week know that the virgin steel they make be vital to support our renewable energy aspiration , such as offshore wind in the Celtic sea , so the loss of 3 , 000 job be a kick in the tooth for our proud and skilled Welsh steelworker . it will devastate local economy and the sovereign steelmaking capacity that would build the wind turbine we need , yet the Business Secretary tell we at the weekend : " it ' s not about the job loss " . do the Secretary of State agree with her comment ? I be sorry that the hon . Lady have I reply to that question , not the Secretary of State . it be important to recognise that the investment from this UK Government have save thousand of job across the United Kingdom . of course , the transition board be now work with the individual affect in Port Talbot , which be the proper and right thing to do . I be glad that both the UK and Welsh Governments be work towards that ; it be absolutely the right outcome . we need to think about these thing in the wide context , which be our responsibility . the Minister boast about the transition board , but that only exist because of the Government ' s failure to protect job and vital industry . each year , Port Talbot provide enough virgin steel to deliver the UK ' s 2030 wind target by itself . can she tell the House where that steel will come from when her Government ' s intervention shut the blast furnace early ? will it come from India ? if so , we will be surrender our ability to create job , investment and cheap bill here in Britain . Mr Speaker , it will not surprise you to learn that I completely disagree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment . I would point out that this Government have provide the transition board with £ 80 million . we have not see any of the £ 20 million that the Welsh Labour Government have promise , but indication so far be that move away from steelmaking would not have a direct impact on national security . [ Official Report , 6 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 4MC . ] ( Correction ) Speed Limit : residential Roads whether he have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the introduction of a 20 mph speed limit on residential road and pedestrian street in Wales . whether he have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the introduction of a 20 mph speed limit on residential road and pedestrian street in Wales . the Welsh Government ' s policy on the blanket 20 mph speed limit be damage community and business across Wales . all of we support 20 mph limit if there be a safety reason outside school , hospital or old people ' s home , but the blanket 20 mph limit be , by the Welsh Government ' s own figure , go to create a £ 4 . 5 billion hit to the Welsh economy . in my constituency , bus service no long serve Dyserth ' s high street or the Tweedmill shopping outlet in Trefnant , which impact on some of the most vulnerable people . Arriva have state that the Welsh Government ' s 20 mph policy be a key reason for that . do the Secretary of State agree that the Welsh Government have fail in multiple way to properly consider the impact of their policy and that they should repeal it in full ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . not only have the Welsh Government not consider the impact of this policy on the economy , business and commuter , but they have fail to consider the impact on user of public transport . we be see bus timetable across the whole of Wales be rip up because of this daft policy . the Welsh Labour Government seem determined to apply a handbrake to the Welsh economy . Blanket 20 mph zone do not command widespread public support and , as a consequence , be widely ignore and unenforceable . furthermore , there be very little evidence that they improve road safety or air quality . the roll - out of the scheme in Wales have prove to be an utter farce . do my right hon . friend share my concern that the Labour party have not learn its lesson and would no doubt seek to impose this costly and disastrous policy in England be it to be elect ? my hon . friend be correct . not only have the Welsh Labour Government not consider this policy , but they have ignore the fact that 468 , 000 people have sign a petition call on they to reconsider — the large petition in the history of the Senedd . he be also correct to say that if a Labour Government be ever elect in this country — I certainly hope that will not happen — it be inevitable that they would pursue anti - motorist policy such as the 20 mph speed limit , a ban on new road be build , and congestion charge and emission zone be set up all over the place . the South Wales Argus of 28 December 2022 inform we that the Secretary of State for Wales outline his " anger " that the 20 mph speed limit in Caerwent be not be enforce properly by the police . be he still angry ? I begin my response early by say that all of we in this House support 20 mph speed limit where there be an issue of safety , and I could not be more clear about that . what I do not support be a blanket 20 mph limit . alongside that blanket 20 mph limit on 30 mph road , the Welsh Labour Government be use underhand method to bring down the speed limit on perfectly safe dual carriageway from 70 mph to 50 mph . that be what lie in store if Labour be ever elect to government in the rest of the country . clearly the 20 mph speed limit that be be enforce in Wales will restrict people in their movement . have the Minister have any discussion with the Welsh Assembly on provide more bus to take people out of their car , and will there be more provision for cyclist ? if there be not that provision , this system can not work . unfortunately , Welsh Senedd Ministers do not seem interested in reconsider the policy . frankly , there be an anti - motorist agenda with the Welsh Labour Government , which have see blanket 20 mph speed limit , speed reduction on dual carriageway , congestion charge be consider and charge to use the M4 . most shockingly of all , my own Labour council be consider bring back severn bridge toll . rail Infrastructure what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of rail infrastructure in Wales . I have regular discussion with colleague across Government on rail infrastructure . the UK Government be commit to build a strong rail infrastructure network across Wales , which will improve connectivity and drive economic growth . we have provide over £ 390 million for Welsh rail in recent year , and we recently announce a furth £ 1 billion to fund the electrification of the north Wales main line . the Welsh Affairs Committee highlight the need for great connectivity between Swansea , Cardiff and Bristol , which would be of huge benefit , particularly for sport and music fan come to Ashton Gate in my constituency . why have the Wales Rail Board fail to initiate recommendation and other further improvement ? the hon . Lady ' s constituent will be greatly affect by the project that she mention and by the performance of Great Western Railway , which be not sufficient . the Office of Rail and Road have launch an investigation into poor train punctuality and reliability in Network Rail ' s Wales and western region , and we await the recommendation of that review . I add that industrial action have affect thing . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate Network Rail and its subcontractor on complete the repair work on the long wooden rail bridge in Europe across the Mawddach estuary in Gwynedd ? I certainly will join my hon . friend , and I be delighted that he take such keen interest in Welsh rail infrastructure and raise it here on such a regular basis . he be right to flag that project , which be an example of this Government ' s record investment in rail infrastructure in Wales . I be pleased to visit the project and give it my full support . steelmake what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of the steelmaking industry in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of the steelmaking industry in Wales . the Government be invest £ 500 million to secure the future of steelmaking in Port Talbot for generation to come . it be one of the large UK Government support package for steelmaking in history , and it will protect 5 , 000 job directly with Tata and many thousand more in the supply chain . last week , the Secretary of State state in the steel debate that he understand " the devastation that people will feel in Port Talbot — the whole community , but especially those people who face the loss of their job " — [ Official Report , 23 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 264 . ] at the plant and beyond . why be it , then , that the Secretary of State or the Business Secretary do not put in a red line on job loss while this work be be do , especially give that Tata have this morning double down on those loss at the Welsh Affairs Committee ? it be nothing short of a disgrace . as the hon . Gentleman know , Tata approach the UK Government and say it be intend to pull out of the United Kingdom . if Tata have pull out completely , that would have immediately cost 8 , 000 job and many thousand more in the supply chain . the Government therefore act to take the only deal available , which be to build the electric arc furnace and save thousand of job . I do not think that thousand of job will be save at all . the people of Teesside , who see the Tory Government abandon they and end virgin steelmaking at Redcar , lead to the loss of 3 , 000 job , will sympathise with those in Wales . the failure of the same Government will see virgin steelmaking also end in Wales , with the loss of another 3 , 000 job , and leave the UK even more reliant on import , as they be surrender the market to other country . why would the Government want to do that when steel be a foundation industry and , with the introduction of new technology , could have a bright future ? I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be aware that 100 % of the material — the iron ore and coke — use to produce steel in Port Talbot be import from abroad . at the same time , we be export 8 million tonne of scrap steel , so build an arc furnace to make use of that scrap steel will make we less dependent on other country for our steel . as far as job loss be concern , the UK Government have put aside a budget of £ 80 million , combine with £ 20 million from Tata , to support anyone who lose their job . thus far , we have not have one single penny towards that from the Welsh Labour Government — who , by the way , be able to find £ 100 million to create a whole load of extra Senedd member in Cardiff Bay . I know where my priority be : with the steelworker . steelmaking be essential to our national security , as be reach net zero . the problem be that the Welsh Labour Government can not make their mind up about which be more important . after try to kill off the steel industry with their green measure , they now complain that the UK Government be not do enough to support that industry . do the Secretary of State think that they do not really know their acas from their nalgo ? my hon . friend make a good point . the Government have look carefully at this , and very little steel be produce by Port Talbot be go into the defence industry , but the defence industry be be supply with steel from an electric arc furnace by Sheffield Forgemasters . there be absolutely no reason why an electric arc furnace build at Port Talbot , use UK Government support , can not help support our defence industry in the year to come . victim of Crime what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support victim of crime in Wales . I have regular discussion with ministerial colleague on a range of topic include on justice matter . the Government be commit to support victim . by 2025 , we will have quadruple funding in England and Wales for victim and witness support service from 2010 level . nine in 10 crime go unsolved in Wales in the last six month . what do the Minister say to the victim of the 82 , 000 unsolved crime ? I would point to the Government ' s record on crime . last week ' s Office for National Statistics crime survey show drop in all major crime type , with an average reduction of about 50 % . violent crime be down by 51 % , neighbourhood crime be down by 48 % , and theft be down by 46 % . that be due in part to the fact that the Government have meet their commitment to provide 20 , 000 extra police officer . my own force , Dyfed - Powys , have now get an extra 143 officer . Levelling - up Funding what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of level - up funding on Welsh community . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague and delivery team in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on the progress of level - up fund project in Wales . I look forward to hear more about the project take place in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the M ô r I ' r Mynydd — sea to mountain — active travel route in the Conwy valley receive an £ 18 . 6 million boost through levelling - up fund the project will make a positive difference to community in Glan Conwy , Betws - y - Coed and Trefriw . apart from unlock the Conwy valley to visitor , it will help young people get to school safely and worker to their job . I meet regularly with Conwy County Borough Council about the progress of those project . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that levelling - up fund be be deliver effectively in Wales ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be such a champion of levelling - up fund scheme in his constituency . the levelling - up fund have allow we to keep our post - brexit promise to ensure that Wales continue to be generously fund . that be one of many such project , such as the levelling - up fund , the freeport and the investment zone that be ensure that Wales level up . like the town and village I represent , coalfield community in Wales be still bear the brunt of deindustrialisation . I be delighted that we will have a debate tomorrow on miner and mining community , and I encourage Welsh colleague to attend . can the Minister tell we what step he be take to ensure that levelling - up funding in Wales and across the coalfield in the UK be target at the most deprived , leave - behind area , which have suffer most ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say we need to target the area most in need , but that be exactly what this Government have be do . it be not just about level - up fund ; we have have four growth deal across the length and breadth of Wales , three round of level - up funding , two investment zone , two freeport , an electrify rail line in north Wales and an electrify arc furnace in south Wales . the reality be that while we be commit to level up , the Welsh Labour Government be commit to levy further taxis on people and business on Wales . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I want to say that recent exchange have be lively , to the point where it be become difficult for colleague to hear what be be say clearly , and there have be an escalation in unhelpful exchange across the Floor of the House from sedentary position and the attempt use of prop . some of the language use in question have also fall short of the standard of good temper and moderation that should characterise the proceeding of this House . I know there be a general election approach , but I urge hon . member on both side of the House to exercise great self - restraint in their choice of word and in their general behaviour , both when they be ask a question and when they be not . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 31 January . on Monday I meet the family of Grace o ' Malley - Kumar , Barnaby Webber and Ian Coates , who be kill in Nottingham . I assure they that we would do whatever it take to get the answer that they want . follow constructive dialogue over past month , I welcome the significant step the DUP have take to make restoration of the Executive possible . I also thank the other political party in Northern Ireland for the patience they have show . after two year without an Executive , there be now the prospect of get power - sharing back up and run , strengthen our Union , give the people the local , accountable government that they need and offer a bright future for Northern Ireland . my right hon . friend the Northern Ireland Secretary will be make a statement shortly . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . last week I meet a constituent who be employ not by the Post Office , but by a supermarket that operate a franchise post office . she be wrongly accuse of dishonesty as a result of the faulty Horizon system and put through a disciplinary process by her employer , the supermarket , which have a profound impact on her life . she be not alone — there be other in her position — yet there be no provision for compensate people who work in franchise post office , as she do . will the Prime Minister give I a commitment that he will include those victim in the Horizon scandal compensation scheme ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . and learn Lady ' s constituent ' s case . as I have say , it be an awful miscarriage of justice and everyone affect deserve not only justice , but compensation and answer . I will make sure we look into the precise detail of her constituent ' s case — surely there will be other like that — and will make sure that the Minister get back to she with all due haste . sustainable aviation fuel play a significant part in the sector ' s decarbonisation . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister commit to further policy for a SAF mandate to generate great demand , and for a revenue support mechanism of the kind that other sector , include solar and wind - power generation , have ? will he give a commitment that work will start by the end of next year on the five promise sustainable aviation plant here in the UK ? I can give my hon . friend the assurance that we be committed to ensure the SAF mandate will be in place by 2025 . by mandate the use of sustainable aviation fuel , we will be able not only to deliver carbon saving , but to create a brand - new UK market . as one of the step in introduce the revenue certainty mechanism that he talk about by 2026 , the Department for Transport will be consult in the spring of this year on option for how that should work in practice . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . may I join the Prime Minister in welcome the DUP ' s statement on the return of the Northern Ireland Executive ? this be an important moment , but we now need all side to work together to get Stormont back up and run for the people of Northern Ireland . I , too , meet the family of Grace , Barnaby and Ian on Monday . it be impossible to express in word the horror that they have be through , and continue to go through . we must all redouble our effort to do everything we can to help they with their campaign . this week , two young life — 16 - year - old Max and 15 - year - old Mason — be take in Bristol . I know the whole House will join I in send condolence to their family and friend . one of the most difficult experience for any Member of this House be speak to those at the sharp end of this Government ' s cost of living crisis . nobody could fail to be move by the plight of the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . his mortgage have go up £ 1 , 200 a month , and he have be force to quit his dream job to pay for it . a Tory MP count the cost of Tory chaos ! after 14 year , have we finally discover what they mean when they say , " we ' re all in this together " ? thank to the mortgage charter that the Chancellor introduce last year , million of mortgage holder across the country be benefit from mortgage support . rather than take the approach that the right hon . and learn Gentleman just do , it be important to focus on the practical support in place to help people who need it . someone on a typical mortgage be able to save hundred of pound thank to those reform . recently , we have see mortgage application at a multi - month high , as a result of confidence return . if he really care about help people with the cost of living , he would do more to celebrate and acknowledge the fact that , thank to our plan , million of work people will start to pay hundred of pound less in tax from this month ' s payslip . we all know that be not a priority for he . he say he want to back people on the cost of living , but I read that he have describe tax cut as " salt the earth " . it seem that his shadow Chancellor be equally confused ; in Davos , she say that she back tax cut , but back here in Westminster she call they a " scorch earth " policy . she obviously can not decide which Wikipedia page to copy this week . for every £ 2 the Prime Minister say he be give people back , he be take £ 10 out of their back pocket through high tax . he think they should be dance in the street and thank he . there be 200 , 000 people , just like the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , come off fix - rate mortgage and pay more each and every month , because the Conservatives crash the economy . do the Prime Minister know how much their monthly repayment be go up by ? as I say , someone on a typical mortgage of about £ 140 , 000 with 17 year leave be currently pay around £ 800 . as a result of the ability to extend their mortgage term or switch to a six - month interest - only mortgage , someone on the average mortgage will be able to save hundred of pound . again , the right hon . and learn Gentleman say that he care about the cost of living , but what would have the big impact on everyone ' s cost of living be his idea to spend £ 28 billion ; a shadow Treasury Minister confirm just this morning that they remain committed to that . but he have no plan to pay for that £ 28 billion — no plan at all . that be typical Labour economic . they want to keep the spending but drop the payment plan . at the weekend I see the former labour leader — the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s mentor — who be clear that Labour will make their sum add up with tax rise on people ' s asset : their home , pension and business . it be the same old Labour party — no plan and back to square one with high taxis . the Government have crash the economy , mortgage be through the roof and they have double the debt , and the Prime Minister think he can stand there and lecture other people about fiscal responsibility . he do not answer the question . hundred of thousand of people be come off fix - rate mortgage and face huge mortgage increase , and the Prime Minister will not even do they the courtesy of answer the question . [ interruption . ] no , he didn ' t , so I will ask he again . order . I be very clear at the beginning . my constituent want to hear — if yours don ' t , please leave . do the Prime Minister have any idea how much mortgage be go up by this month for those come off fix - rate mortgage ? again , I point the right hon . and learn Gentleman back to my previous answer . everybody ' s situation will be different . someone on a typical mortgage of around £ 140 , 000 , who be currently pay £ 800 , will be able to keep their mortgage payment essentially the same by use the facilitation the Chancellor have put in place . that be what we have do to help people . again , it be incumbent on the right hon . and learn Gentleman to explain to the british public how his policy of decarbonise the grid by 2030 will be fund . he will not give the answer , but helpfully the shadow Energy Secretary , the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , pop up at the weekend in an interview in the Sunday Times and say that Labour do not need a plan to pay for it because , in his word , it will " produce real saving " , and it make clear " economic sense " . the Leader of the Opposition do not want to talk about it at all . all these year later , it be the same story : the right hon . member for Doncaster North have carve a promise in stone , and everybody else just look away in embarrassment . the Prime Minister just do not get it . the Government have crash the economy ; mortgage be skyrocket ; they be double the debt . they say they be go to max out the Government ' s credit card at the next budget — [ interruption . ] order . I think the Chief Whip be get very carry away . he do not want to lead everybody for a cup of tea , do he ? come on . the Government have forfeit the right to lecture other about the economy . somebody come off a fix - rate mortgage will be pay an average of £ 240 more each and every month — a constant reminder that work people be pay the price for the damage the Government have do to the economy . this week , I meet an employee at Iceland in Warrington — Phil . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Gibson , the same voice keep appear again , and it will not appear any more . I be just let you know now . laugh at an Iceland employee who be struggle with his mortgage — shame . Phil tell I his mortgage be go up by a staggering £ 1 , 000 a month . he do not want other average — other people , other story . this be what be happen to he . if the hon . member for Mid Norfolk , on £ 120 , 000 , can not afford this Tory Government , how on earth can people like Phil ? thank to the management of the economy , Phil and million of people like he be now ensure that inflation be less than half the rate that it be when we be talk a year ago ; that be put more money in their pocket . thank to this Government , Phil and million of other worker — not just at Iceland , but across the country — be benefit this month in their pay packet from a tax cut worth hundred of pound for someone on an average salary . I hope the right hon . and learn Gentleman explain to Phil the cost of his policy . do he explain how Phil be go to have to pay for the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s £ 28 billion green spending spree ? do he explain what it will cost Phil in high taxis , with more come out of his pay packet ? do he explain to Phil that he would be well off stick with our plan , rather than go back to square one with he ? I invite the Prime Minister to get in touch with Phil and explain to he how pay £ 1 , 000 more in his mortgage be make he well off , because that be not how he feel . the Prime Minister be so out of touch , it be unbelievable . find hundred of pound extra per month may not seem like a big deal to the Prime Minister , but let I tell he that most people do not have that sort of money knock around . if that be not bad enough , this week , the Prime Minister tell every council in the country to put their council tax up by the maximum of 5 % . that is 26 tax rise now , Prime Minister . he say everything be fine , and people be well off , but when people see their mortgage go up , their council tax go up and food price still go up , who do he expect they to believe : his boast , or their bank account ? again , I be puzzle — the right hon . and learn Gentleman resort here , as always , to the politic of envy . I be genuinely surprised that , after recently and repeatedly attack not just I but the Government for lift the bonus cap , the shadow Chancellor have announce , just today , that she now support the Government ' s policy on the banker ’ bonus cap — I do not know whether he mention that to Phil when he be have his chat , but I be sure he can fill we in . I can tell he that trust and economic credibility come from stick to a plan , but it be become clear that we can not trust a word he say . when the shadow Chancellor claim that they will not borrow much or raise Phil ' s taxis , we now know that those promise be just not worth the Wikipedia page they be copy from . I actually do not expect the Prime Minister to be laugh at Phil . I do not expect that — [ interruption . ] order . look , I make the statement very clear . it be very serious that we make sure that people hear both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition . it matter to the people who watch the proceeding of this Chamber . the behaviour that seem to be carry on be not good . the Prime Minister just do not get how hard it be for million of people across the country like Phil . that be the primary problem : they be struggle with their mortgage , their bill and the spiral cost of living . the Prime Minister ' s response be never to take responsibility , and never to show contrition or even any level of basic understanding . he be so detached that he think he can paint a world in which their problem simply do not exist . the problem be that he can not even fool his own mps , let alone anyone else . the hon . member for Mid Norfolk say he be " exhausted " and be look forward to new opportunity outside of Parliament . why do the Prime Minister not do he a favour and call an election , so that he and the whole country can move on ? whether it be Phil or everyone else across the country , the plan that we be put in place be work to help people and we be make progress : just this week , take action to stop child vape ; just this week , ensure that people can visit their pharmacy to get the healthcare they need , free up million of GP appointment ; and just this week , million of work people start to see hundred of pound of tax cut deliver in their pay packet . that be a plan that be work . all the right hon . and Learned Gentleman be offer be £ 28 billion of tax rise . and that be the choice : a bright future with we or back to square one with they . the Prime Minister like to attend live sport , so I wonder whether he will join I in welcome the planning inspector ' s decision to uphold Rugby Council ' s rejection of an application for development at Brandon Stadium in my constituency , to keep the door open for it to remain a sporting venue so that future generation will enjoy the thrill and spill of motorcycle speedway and stock car . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute and be proud of Britain ' s rich history in the automotive and motorsport sector . the stadium he talk about be an historic motorsport venue . while it have be a shame to see it fall into disrepair , I hope that the decision he refer to will enable the possibility of both speedway and stock car race to return . I know that he will continue , rightly , to champion this cause . I call the SNP leader . when the Tories scrap the cap on banker ’ bonus in the autumn during a cost of living crisis , the Labour party rightly oppose it . yet here we be , just three month later , and the Labour party support scrap the cap — shameful . be the Prime Minister comfort by the fact that he be now no long alone in this House on be completely out of touch with public opinion ? as I say at the time , we support the decision of the independent regulator because it be the right thing for financial stability , and because we on this side of the House have a set of conviction and we have a plan and we stick to it . but the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point out the flip - flopping , u - turn and no conviction of the party opposite . of course , scrap the cap on banker ’ bonus be only make possible because of Brexit . what the Westminster party be now tell the public be that it be ok for banker to have unlimited Brexit bonus , but the public who be sit at home and struggle to feed their family have to suck up and deal with additional food cost as a result of Brexit red tape . that be the cost and that be the reality of break Brexit Britain . be it not the case that the great achievement of this Tory Government be get the Labour party to agree to that bleak future ? we be actually deliver benefit for people across Scotland , not least the new free trade deal that be open up market for scottish exporter , freeport that be attract job and investment , and the Brexit pub guarantee that be cut the cost of a pint in scottish pub . the hon . Gentleman talk about the cost of living , but what he could do to help the most be ensure that Scotland be not the most highly tax part of the United Kingdom — and not just for high earner ; everyone earn £ 28 , 500 or more be pay more tax in Scotland than they would in England , thank to the SNP . one punch throw , two day on life support , then three child leave without a father . a four - year sentence be hand down and the perpetrator be release after two , but one grieve mother have to live a life sentence of agony . sentence for one - punch killer be not work in this country . do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time to finally introduce a specific offence and a tough minimum sentence for one - punch manslaughter ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that she have do to bring attention to so - call one - punch manslaughter and to highlight the anguish that — as she know well — those case cause to the family of the victim . I know that the Ministry of Justice have look very carefully at the amendment that she have propose , and that she will shortly be meet the Minister for Safeguarding to discuss both her specific amendment and how we might well address the wide issue . Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order ! Ed Davey . my constituent Millie , a wheelchair user , have a serious accident at a sporting event . Millie be leave wait on the floor in pain for over two hour before an ambulance arrive . during her month in hospital since then , she have be drop , badly , multiple time ; leave stick in her bed for day on end ; and even tell to soil herself when there be no one to take she to the toilet . before all this , Millie be live independently and work , but the prospect of she return to work be be destroy by the crisis in the NHS and care system . I be sure the Prime Minister will agree that no one should ever have to go through what Millie have be through , so will he look again at our proposal to ensure that every patient receive the high - quality care that they need ? I be very sorry to hear about Millie ' s case , and I be sure that if there be specific aspect of it that need to be examine , the Health Secretary will follow they up with the right hon . Gentleman . more generally , we want to make sure that everyone get the care they deserve , which be why we be not just invest record sum in the NHS but ensure that there be record number of doctor , nurse and new , innovative form of treatment such as surgical hub and virtual ward . all that be show that ambulance time , which the right hon . Gentleman mention , be low today than they be this time last year . the no . 1 reason for child ' s hospital admission in my constituency be dental treatment , but we have no nhs capacity and no orthodontist in Barnstaple . our dentist can not recruit , even with a large golden hello . the emergency dental plan seem to have be stick at the Treasury forever . might my right hon . friend use his spare set of key and pop round to rescue it for we ? my constituent and I would be ever so grateful . my hon . friend have rightly champion the provision of dentistry in her area . we be invest £ 3 billion a year , and the reform contract in dentistry from the NHS have improve access while ensure fair remuneration for dentist . we be also provide more financial support for those who need it the most — about half the course of treatment last year be deliver to those who be non - pay , both adult and child — but yes , more need to be do , and that be why our dentistry recovery plan will be publish shortly . More than two decade ago , the then Prime Minister , Tony Blair , mislead this House by promote and endorse the Post Office Horizon IT system as perfect , protect the large corporation that create it and cause untold harm , damage and misery to innocent people . can the current Prime Minister think of anything he have promote , in partnership with huge business , as safe and effective that have ultimately harm the british people ? will he use this opportunity to correct that safe and effective statement , or will he choose the same line as Tony Blair and sit back , do nothing and let the misery continue to pile up ? we have be clear that the Horizon scandal be a terrible miscarriage of justice , and we be do everything we can to make it right . to what the hon . Member be more broadly insinuating , let I be unequivocal from this Dispatch Box that covid vaccine be safe . the shocking revelation of the Horizon scandal highlight the Post Office ' s financial incompetence , and my right hon . friend will know that the public ' s confidence in the institution be at an all - time low . do he agree that as high street bank be close branch across the country , we should look at develop new community banking solution rather than give the Post Office sole responsibility for provide access to cash and other banking service in poorly serve neighbourhood ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , but I would just say that we should not make the mistake of conflate this scandal with the action of many hard - work local postmaster and sub - postmaster . customer can access cash and banking service through a wide range of channel , include a contract with the Post Office Counters service , which provide a valuable channel . I agree with she , however , on the importance of access to cash , which be why the Government have legislate to protect that as part of the recent Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , to ensure that the vast majority of people should be no more than 3 mile away from such a cashpoint . one of the nolan principle — integrity — state that holder of public office should not act to gain material benefit for themselves , their family or their friend . on 6 January the Prime Minister tweet a link to the conservative party website that seem to scrape people ' s datum and place unwanted cookie on their machine . the Good Law Project be now pursue this . can he assure the House that no law have be break by his party ? of course our party follow all law . a first responsibility for Government be to fix the housing crisis that young people do not cause . three year ago , we drag house building in this country up to the high level since 1987 , after the last Labour Government leave it at its low level since the 1920s . but house building be weaken and we need to do more . will my right hon . friend consider use the Budget to do as he and I do together during the pandemic : cut stamp duty to boost housing start , reignite the economy and support thousand of business across our country ? my right hon . friend be right to point out that since 2010 we have deliver 2 . 5 million additional home , and we be on track to deliver 1 million just in this Parliament and help over 850 , 000 family into home ownership through scheme such as help to Buy and the right to buy . obviously , tax decision be a matter for the Chancellor , but I would point out that our exist stamp duty relief for first - time buyer ensure that the vast majority of first - time buyer in our country pay absolutely no stamp duty . the all - party parliamentary group on eye health and visual impairment have today publish polling that find that nearly half of employer exclude blind and partially sight people from their workplace and that one in four say that they would not be willing to make workplace adjustment . the disability employment gap remain stubbornly at 30 % and the pay gap mean that blind and partially sight people effectively work for free for 47 day of the year . will the Prime Minister meet I and sight loss organisation to discuss how we can create a more inclusive workforce ? I share the hon . Lady ' s ambition for an inclusive workforce . the record in support those with disability into work over the past several year have be incredibly strong . I know my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be actively look at that and make sure that our accessibility plan be up to date and inclusive . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get a meeting with the relevant Minister . have visit recently , I know that Israel remain in shock follow the rape , murder and butchery carry out by Hamas . all of we want to see a peaceful and demilitarised palestinian state . however , Hamas remain in control in large part of Gaza , support for they be grow in the west bank , poll show that nearly two third of Palestinians reject co - existence with Israel and the Palestinian Authority have continue to promote hatred of Jews . do my right hon . friend agree that any recognition of a palestinian state must address these issue and can come about only as part of a negotiate settlement between Israel and the Palestinians ? the Government ' s position be clear . my right hon . and learn Friend be right that step and condition need to be put in place on this journey : first and foremost , the removal of Hamas from Gaza ; a Palestinian - lead Government in Gaza and the west bank ; a concrete plan to reform and support the Palestinian Authority ; a reconstruction plan for Gaza ; and a two - state solution , which we have long support . let I be clear : we stand with Israel . the terrorist threat it face must be eliminate and Israel ' s last security must be guarantee . on 15 November last year , I appeal to the Prime Minister to choose de - escalation and peace over violence , death and destruction , but he call I " naive " . so far , over 26 , 000 soul have perish in Gaza . in a powerful and move open letter in Monday ' s , the jewish Voice for Peace Rabbinical Council cite Deuteronomy — " I have put before you life and death , blessing and curse . choose life " — and accuse President Biden of choose death . if the Prime Minister will not listen to I or the International Court of Justice , will he listen to the Rabbinical Council , or will he call it " naive " too ? I have be clear multiple time that we be deeply concerned about the impact on the civilian population of the fighting in Gaza . too many people have lose their life and there be a desperate need for increase humanitarian support in Gaza . I will not go over all the debate we have have about the condition that be necessary for an immediate pause lead to a sustainable ceasefire , but I assure the House that we be do everything we can to get more aid into the region as quickly as possible . Chatham dock support over 800 local , high - value job which be at risk because the owner be continue in their pursuit to displace successful business , such as ArcelorMittal Kent Wire . the Labour council be fail to honour the commitment it make before the local election to protect the dock and the job . even the Leader of the opposition say he be " proudly back " the Save Chatham Docks campaign . will my right hon . friend meet I to see how we can protect the dock and save those job for my constituent ? be this not just another example of how Labour and its leader change their position depend on which way the wind blow ? my right hon . friend have be a constant champion of Chatham dock and I be disappointed to hear that the local Labour council be fail to honour the commitment it have make . as she point out , I be not surprised that the Leader of the Opposition have say one thing and then consequently do another . the dock support hundred of job and I join she in call on the council to rethink its approach . Pharmacy First with permission , I shall make a statement on the launch of our Pharmacy First service . pharmacy be at the centre of our community . they be an accessible front door to our NHS for million of people . alongside general practice , optometry and dentistry , pharmacy be one of the four pillar of primary care in England . four in five people in England live within a 20 - minute walk of a community pharmacy . pharmacy provide fast , fair and simple access to care and advice for the kind of illness from which people suffer every day . our constituent can now walk in off the high street whenever it suit they — whether they be at home , at work , or visit somewhere . our pharmacist be not only conveniently locate , but highly skilled professional with year of training under their belt . the number of register pharmacist in England have grow considerably under this Conservative Government — up 61 % compare with 2010 . none the less , these skilled healthcare professional still represent a rather untapped resource in our NHS , so this Government be bring forward reform that will make the most of their expertise : give people up and down the country a variety of quality care and wise advice , quickly and easily , save they a trip to the gp ; free up appointment for patient who need GPs the most ; and drive our plan to cut waiting list . the benefit be clear . that be why this Government have consistently take the decision that allow community pharmacist to deliver more clinical service and supply more treatment — whether that be other part of the NHS refer patient suffer from minor illness to community pharmacist for advice and the sale of over - the - counter medicine , offer lifesave blood pressure check in pharmacy , or make it easy for woman to access oral contraception in pharmacy . I be proud of everything that we have accomplish so far . to unlock the full potential of our pharmacist , we need to go far and fast . that be why I be delighted to inform the House today that we be launch the Pharmacy First service — a personal priority of the Prime Minister , who be himself the son of a pharmacist . this will give pharmacist the power to supply prescription - only medication , include antibiotic and antiviral for seven common condition : sore throat , ear ache , infected insect bite , impetigo , shingle , and minor urinary tract infection in woman . More than 10 , 000 community pharmacy have sign up — over 95 % of pharmacy in England — which be a brilliant sign of their approval . the next time that anyone be suffer from any of those seven condition , for most people their first port of call will be a quick trip or a call to their pharmacist . they will not need to see their gp first . they will not need to spend time make an appointment , and they can turn to their pharmacist whenever it suit they . that benefit everyone involve : people get the care they need fast ; GPs can focus on more complicated case ; and pharmacist can make well use of their knowledge and skill . this be a common - sense reform . pharmacist see and advise people with these sort of condition every day , but we have now enable they to provide prescription - only medicine where clinically appropriate , so that they can help people more easily . all this will deliver result . Pharmacy First will make it easy for million of people to get the care they need on the high street and , together with the expand blood pressure and contraception service , it will free up as many as 10 million gp appointment , in turn reduce unnecessary trip to a & E , reduce the pressure on GPs , and drive forward our plan to cut waiting list for patient . the investment that we be put into Pharmacy First will also level up digital infrastructure in community pharmacie up and down the country , streamline referral to and from GPs , give pharmacist well access to relevant information from patient ' gp record , and allow they to share relevant information quickly in return . Pharmacy First be not just about deliver care fast , but about make care fairer by drive down health inequality . that be because there be double the number of pharmacy in the most deprived community in our country . get the right care , the right contraception and the right test will now be fast and simple for all those people in our more deprived community than it ever have be before . thank to Pharmacy First , they will be able to take full advantage of their pharmacist ' expertise and use they to complement the care they receive from their GPs and throughout the NHS . Pharmacy First be make possible only through close collaboration with Community Pharmacy England , which I thank for all the work it have do and will continue to do to support community pharmacy to gear up and deliver this new service for our NHS . we on the conservative Benches have a clear plan for the NHS : get patient the care they need fast ; make the system simple for staff ; and make it fair for everyone . that be our plan and I look forward to work with pharmacist up and down the country to deliver today ' s announcement as we build a bright future for family right across the country . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . let I start by pay tribute to the many organisation that have be involve in prepare for this launch and the thousand of pharmacy across the country that have embrace this initiative . labour have long be argue that pharmacist should play a great role in the NHS , so we support this move . as the Minister have say , pharmacy already do far more than just dispense repeat prescription and sell shampoo : they be medicine expert within the NHS ; they be highly train ; they be easily accessible right across the country ; and , as we see during the pandemic , they be a highly trust part of their community . but their skill and knowledge be often under - utilise . therefore , bring more service to british high street for patient to get treat more quickly and conveniently be absolutely right . it be why , as we announce last week , we want to bring NHS out - patient appointment close to people through high street opticians too . the Minister be right to say that pharmacist can take pressure off GPs . however , let we be clear : this announcement will not make up for the 1 , 000 pharmacy which have be close under the Conservatives , or the 2 , 000 GPs that have be cut since 2015 . patient today be wait over a month to see a gp , if they can get an appointment at all . when Labour be last in office , people could get an appointment within 48 hour . that be the thing with this government : they give with one hand and take with the other . will the Minister explain what have happen to the Government ' s pledge to deliver 6 , 000 more GPs this year and what she be do to support community pharmacy , which be already face a perfect storm of inflationary pressure for run cost , recruitment challenge and an unstable medicine market ? the Government press release issue today claim that patient in England will be able to get treatment for seven common condition at their high street pharmacy from today . I would like to dig down into whether that be actually the case . Healthwatch England have warn that it will take time for pharmacist to be train in order to provide the service that Ministers have announce , so can the Minister tell we when she will be able to guarantee that the service advertise will actually be available ? let I also ask about IT integration . to facilitate this roll - out , pharmacist be suppose to have access to GP Connect , so that detail of patient consultation would automatically be send to general practice through the clinical it system . the Government have have 12 month to get that ready , but from what I be hear this morning it be still not live . pharmacist be tell I that they can access only a summary of GP record , that they have to use another system to input what they have prescribe , and that they then have to download that and email it across to the GP . that be cumbersome . what estimate have the Minister make of the time that will be waste at a local level to address that issue , and how long will it take before the system be ready ? finally , what be the Government ' s plan in the long term to integrate the increase in independent prescriber who be be train as part of the long - term workforce plan , and do the Minister agree with we that we should be accelerate the roll - out of independent prescribing to establish a community pharmacist prescribing service cover a broad range of common condition ? that would support patient with chronic condition , which be the big challenge face the NHS . do the Minister agree that community pharmacy will have an important role to play in support GPs in the management of long - term condition such as hypertension and asthma and in tackle the serious issue of over - prescribing , which be responsible for thousand of avoidable hospital admission every year ? we agree that patient should be able to go to their local pharmacy to receive some service that they currently get at GP surgery , such as vaccination free of charge on the NHS , allow patient to be see fast and free up GPs to see more complex case . by bring healthcare into the community , patient will have great control . the NHS should be as much a neighbourhood health service as a national health service , with healthcare on the doorstep , there when it be need — and with Labour , it will be . well , the very first appointment under Pharmacy First happen at 8 . 30 this morning . it be 8 . 31 ! oh , be it 8 . 31 ? I thank the Secretary of State . when will the service be available ? I should think that many more be take place already . I be afraid that , while welcome this , the hon . Lady be be a little pusillanimous with her praise . a lot of her suggestion , as she will know , be simply not true : already , well over 2 , 000 new GPs and ten of thousand of nurse be work in our NHS . many thousand of additional practice staff be work in GP practice , and , as she will know , our brilliant GPs have make 50 million more appointment available each year ahead of the target in our manifesto . good on they . they be do an amazing job , and Pharmacy First will ease the ever - increase burden on they . the hon . Lady talk about technology . I be pleased to tell she that ensure that the technology be in place be key in decide when we could go live . there be a very short window in which some system will have element of manual intervention , but only for a few week . the whole system will be fully automate and will provide the ability to inquire into GP record and to swap advice , which be important for pharmacist to deliver the excellent service that they be already deliver . finally , the hon . Lady will know that community pharmacist have for some time now be deliver blood pressure check , which in some case be truly lifesaving . this be amazing patient access and patient convenience . the Labour party should , for once , simply praise it and be glad that the Government have stick to our plan and get on with it . I be so pleased to hear today ' s announcement that we be deliver . it be one of the key thing in our plan for patient that I want to ensure happen . in particular , many member of this House , current and past , have have infection and , as a consequence of not deal with they , have end up in hospital . this be the sort of sensible approach that , frankly , meet some resistance during my time in the Department , with worry about over - prescribing . it be about treat pharmacist like proper professional and , most important , provide quick access to necessary care , which patient will now properly enjoy . may I say a huge thank you to my right hon . friend for her contribution to kick this project off ? I feel very fortunate to be at the Dispatch Box on the day we launch it , because many other be involve in set it up . she rightly highlight some of the problem with spot thing such as sepsis infection , which pharmacist be train to spot . they really can be the first line of defence . be able to walk in off the high street to see a pharmacist be incredibly valuable to we all . as a long - stand supporter of the idea of Pharmacy First , I welcome the right hon . Lady ' s statement and the specific reform she have talk about introduce . she will be aware , however , that pharmacist in my constituency and far afield be very concerned that they be unable to do the job that they be already expect to because of lack of capacity and problem in access certain drug that they need to prescribe . can she indicate how the exist problem will be deal with , so that they can do what be promise in Pharmacy First ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his support for the programme . there be around 14 , 000 license medicine , the vast majority of which be in good supply . the Department work very closely with the sector on find alternative and source supply of medicine , and most of the time we be able to meet the demand . occasionally there be challenge , but that do not change in any way the ability of community pharmacist to be the expert medicine supplier that they be , and to meet the need that member of the general public have for treatment and advice . I warmly welcome the statement . this initiative have the potential to transform primary care and access to treatment , but do the Minister agree that to realise its full potential , we need to invest in new technology — she mention digitalisation — to make sure that community pharmacy be set up to take advantage of these new opportunity ? we also need to invest in the pharmacy workforce as part of the Government ' s long - term workforce plan , so that those in alternative role within pharmacy , such as pharmacy technician , have the capacity to take the opportunity she have outline . my hon . friend be absolutely right . invest in technology be vital , but so be invest in the workforce . we have see a 61 % increase in the number of register community pharmacist since 2010 , and we aim in our long - term NHS workforce plan to increase that by a further 50 % . we have already increase the number of training place for both pharmacist and pharmacy technician . I , too , welcome Pharmacy First , which I think be a very good initiative . in recent week we have see the closure of two pharmacy in my area , on Beverley Road and Chanterlands Avenue . I be also tell by leader in the Humber pharmacy community that our area have one of the large number of temporary closure because of problem access pharmacist . will the Minister look favourably , therefore , on my idea to attach a school of pharmacy to Hull York Medical School ? we need a school of dentistry , too . if we could have a centre of excellence in the Humber area , it might solve some of our specific workforce problem . I be always happy to speak to colleague on both side of the House about their idea for new dental and pharmacy school . it be an ongoing interest . England be , in fact , bless with huge number of community pharmacy — well over 10 , 000 — and four in five of we be able to walk to a community pharmacy within 20 minute . the number of pharmacy in more deprive area be double the number in more well - off area . we be very well serve by our brilliant pharmacy , and I hope the Pharmacy First programme will improve their footfall and their value in each of our community . I very much welcome this initiative to encourage our pharmacy to provide more frontline healthcare . People need to know about this , because they often do not think of go to the pharmacy . what work be the Government do in large population centre such as Harwich and Dovercourt , which have over 20 , 000 people but no out - of - hour pharmacy cover ? People have to make a round trip of more than 40 mile to collect a prescription on a Sunday , for example . be the Government do any work on 24 / 7 pharmacy coverage for large population area ? my hon . friend raise an important point . pharmacist will keep their community pharmacy open for up to 72 hour a week in most case , and up to 100 hour in some case , which mean there be weekend accessibility . we keep this under review , but the availability be very good . the Liberal Democrats have long support call for Pharmacy First , and the National Pharmacy Association , base in my St Albans constituency , have be call for it since at least 2017 . this be a welcome move , but it be long overdue . the Minister will be aware that there have be almost 700 permanent pharmacy closure since 2015 , and the Company Chemists Association now estimate that eight pharmacy a week be close , include one in my constituency . what step be she take to make sure there be no more closure this week , next week and every other week this year ? the hon . Lady might remember that the Liberal Democrats be in government for a good part of that period . she talk about pharmacy closure , and we see pharmacy opening and closing . there have be a small number of net closure , but we be very well serve across England and we keep a close eye on that . Pharmacy First be a new boost to community pharmacy across England . I congratulate my right hon . friend on bring in this initiative . I have fantastic community pharmacy in South Derbyshire — although , sadly , when the boundary change come , I will lose Hatton to derbyshire Dales . they be leader in their field and they be trust in their community . this be a brilliant initiative , and I can not thank my right hon . friend enough . I thank my hon . friend . rise — order . that be a perfect answer . I have to tell the House that we have a lot of business to get through today , and I will therefore need short question and admirably short answer , because otherwise not everyone who be stand will have a chance to ask a question . I do not agree with most of what the Minister have say today . we be all in favour of pharmacy , but I think this statement be a distraction from the real problem in our health service , our gp service and much else . order . will the hon . Gentleman please ask a question ? have the Minister look at the number of pharmacy that have close in the poor area of our country ? lastly , what be she go to do about company like boot ? it have even close its local branch in Westminster — Order . because of his seniority , I have allow the hon . Gentleman a little leeway . one question , one answer . the more deprived part of England be much well serve by community pharmacy than well - off area be . we have amazing pharmacist in Watford , and I have champion community pharmacy such as Sigma , which be a fantastic local business . can the Minister provide an assurance that the general public will be make massively aware of this fantastic new service ? yes , there will be a significant communication package , begin today . the Minister do not appear to be concern about the record number of community pharmacy closure under this Conservative Government . why do she think it be happen ? there have be a 61 % increase in register pharmacist since 2010 , with plan to increase that number by 50 % in the next few year . I commend my right hon . friend for her excellent statement , but how will she tackle the issue of funding for prescription ? community pharmacy be struggle , and she will understand that the NHS tariff do not pay they the full price of product . will she look at that as she roll out the scheme ? the Government currently contribute £ 2 . 6 billion to community pharmacy , quite apart from the £ 645 million addition for Pharmacy First . we be about to start negotiation for the 2024 - 25 period . the three pharmacy in Shirley , in my constituency , have be there for decade . they be very well know and very trust , but they be all on the edge of have to close . to stay open , one pharmacist be use their own saving and not pay themselves a wage . I welcome your announcement , but would you read a letter from they — Order . there may have be lax obeying of the rule at other time , but would the hon . Lady please refer to the Minister as " she " , not " you " ? forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be an error . would the Minister read that letter , consider these issue and perhaps meet we to talk about it ? they be good people , and we want to keep their pharmacy open . I be of course happy to read the letter , but I would say that Pharmacy First offer a significant new boost to community pharmacy . my right hon . friend will be pleased to hear that , across Cheshire and Merseyside , include my Eddisbury constituency , 535 community pharmacy will be start the Pharmacy First initiative today . particularly in rural area , pharmacy be a lifeline for many people . can she reassure patient of the clinical competence of pharmacist to make prescription , and can she reassure pharmacist on the issue of clinical liability ? I can assure my hon . friend that pharmacist be highly skilled and well train than ever before in this country . they be fully equip to meet the demand of their new prescribing role . I welcome the Pharmacy First initiative — its roll - out be long overdue — but what expectation be we create in the mind of patient attend pharmacy ? will pharmacist be train in deny medication to people who turn up expect to be give a prescription of some sort ? clearly , the initiative will encourage more people to present in order to get medication when it may not be necessary . the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . of course , pharmacist will be prescribe for seven common condition . plenty of referral will be make to gps , and from GPs to pharmacist , to give patient the accessibility and the appropriate level of assessment for their need . pharmacy in Horsham have ask for such a scheme , so they will very much welcome it , as do I . however , as the Minister be aware from our one - on - one discussion , for which I be grateful , there be currently issue of access to pharmacy in Horsham . will she ensure that the sector be appropriately resource and have the right training in order to ensure that the scheme be the great success that it deserve to be ? absolutely , and I be always happy to discuss that far with my right hon . friend . Northern Ireland ' s minor ailment scheme , and this Pharmacy First initiative , be acknowledgment that GPs can spend up to 40 % of their work day on minor ailment , but the scale in Northern Ireland be different from what have be propose for England . be there capacity for a UK - wide roll - out of Pharmacy First to take pressure off our GP service ? if there be , that would be the right thing to do . I seriously look forward to the re - establishment of the Stormont Assembly so that it will be possible for Northern Ireland to implement such a scheme itself . I warmly welcome the statement . I have be a strong champion of pharmacy in my constituency . we be experience challenge , however , when the like of Boots withdraw their service . it be difficult to transfer or apply for licence , despite the fact that we have a number of keen applicant who want to provide important pharmacy service . what more can the Government do to speed up and make the licensing application procedure smoother and well ? I would love to hear more about that from my right hon . and learn Friend . I will be happy to look into it . in recent month , Boots have close two of three pharmacy in the Hampton area of my constituency . that have leave Hampton North , which be one of the most deprived ward in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames , without a single pharmacy , so elderly resident and those with long - term condition have to walk for a lot long than 20 minute to access a pharmacy . local GPs tell I that it be just not viable to set up a community pharmacy facility . will the Government review the pressure on community pharmacy and consider the community pharmacy contractual framework so that we can make this initiative work and take the pressure off GPs ? as I have already mention , there be many community pharmacy start up all the time , as well as close down . the hon . Lady will appreciate that the Pharmacy First initiative be a real boost to community pharmacy . I be happy to discuss it with she , but I would imagine that there will be the capability to open new community pharmacy in her area . I congratulate my right hon . friend and her front - Bench colleague on roll out this initiative . the Isle of Portland have two pharmacy , both run by boot , but one be now shut . can I meet my right hon . friend and Front - Bench colleague to discuss how we can ensure that deprive area such as Portland retain the pharmacy that they desperately need ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . with so many of my constituent wait a long time to see GPs , any boost to primary care capacity must be welcome , so I thank the Minister for today ' s announcement . the gps and pharmacy staff I meet raise concern about recruitment to open role . what assurance can the Minister offer that this will not be another policy , like the childcare announcement , that lack the workforce or sectoral strategy to really gain the full benefit ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , our NHS long - term workforce plan intend to increase by 50 % the number of register pharmacist . that work be under way and include increase the number of pharmacy technician . it be great that people will be able to go to the pharmacy for their prescription , as well as for the product that they need , without the need to visit a gp . Chelmsford have some great community pharmacy , but boot be close three branch . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how we can ensure that the people of Chelmsford will be able to get to a pharmacy , in order for the initiative to work ? I would be very happy to meet my right hon . friend . the community pharmacy in Wem in my constituency have struggle to find a full - time pharmacist , rely instead on locum . that mean that opening time be erratic , people can not rely on the service , and the pharmacy be loss - making because locum be so expensive . how will the Minister help pharmacy in rural area to recruit the full - time pharmacist and reduce their reliance on locum ? the hon . Lady will be aware that , although a few be own by GP practice , community pharmacy be usually private business . we be train the registered community pharmacist that we need . obviously , it would be for that local area to put in place its own recruitment policy , but I would be happy to meet she to discuss that far . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and I put on the record my thank to all the pharmacist who work in my constituency . the geography of my constituency can often mean that someone ' s near pharmacy be about a mile and a half away across the water , so they end up drive 11 mile around to get to it . I believe that the mapping need to change . will she meet I to discuss it ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . just to let she know , 100 pharmacy in Cornwall be sign up to Pharmacy First . this brilliant announcement have the potential to free up many thousand of GP place in area such as Peterborough , but the initiative will be the success that we need it to be only if more people know about . my right hon . friend touch on an awareness campaign , but what effort will she make to ensure that it reach difficult - to - reach community , such as those for whom English be an additional language ? there will be a big communication plan , which I be happy to share with my hon . friend . well over 100 community pharmacy in his area have sign up to Pharmacy First , which be brilliant news . it be incumbent on we all — and the purpose of the statement — to ensure that our constituent know about this excellent new service . although my right hon . friend and I share a common scepticism of the sclerotic state of the European Union , there be lesson to be learn from Europe . I be glad to see that , like France , we be now respect community pharmacy . however , I have one specific question . in her statement , she say that one thing on which the pharmacy can act be female urinary tract infection . why not male ? I wish my hon . friend a happy Brexit day . I will have to come back to he on that issue . the point be that the service be limit to minor urinary tract infection . that might be why it do not include man , but I will certainly get back to he on that point . I and many — if not all — of my constituent very warmly welcome the statement . on integration with other NHS access service , if an individual be to dial NHS 111 with one of the condition mention in the statement , would they be divert to a pharmacy or to a gp first ? to a pharmacy . NHS 111 , GPs and urgent and emergency care can all refer to pharmacist for those particular common condition . I join other in welcome the new scheme . will my right hon . friend ensure , as part of the communication , that the NHS website be update to show which pharmacy have sign up to Pharmacy First , and will she continue to encourage those that have not yet sign up to do so ? what be brilliant be that over 95 % of all community pharmacy have sign up , include 172 in my hon . friend ' s area . key to the service ' s success will be pharmacy actually offer it when patient turn up . do my right hon . friend know how many individual pharmacist have be train to provide the service , and be there a way of gathering and publish datum on when pharmacy will offer the service , so that patient will not have a frustrated journey and we can see where the gap be ? as I say , more than 95 % of all community pharmacy have sign up to the service , and all their pharmacist have be train in how to deliver it . as someone who have champion the role of community pharmacy throughout my time in this House , I warmly welcome today ' s statement . I be particularly delighted that we be able to host one of the pilot scheme in Cornwall , which be hugely successful , result in 7 , 500 consultation that take 6 , 000 appointment away from GPs and 75 A & e appearance . will the Minister join I in thank all the pharmacy in Cornwall that take part in that pilot , which be so successful ? absolutely . it be only by try these thing that we can see how successful they can be , and I do believe this service be go to radically improve patient access to care . Northern Ireland Executive Formation with permission , I will make a statement on Northern Ireland Executive formation . this Saturday would mark two year without a fully function devolve Government in Northern Ireland . that be two year without locally elect Ministers able to take important decision on Northern Ireland ' s school and hospital and the broad economy , and above all , it be two year in which Northern Ireland have be hold back from achieve the massive potential of this unique part of the United Kingdom . it be nearly two year ago that the then First Minister resign over the old Northern Ireland protocol . the Government recognise that the protocol do not deliver to the people of Northern Ireland the same freedom that leave the European Union deliver for the rest of the United Kingdom . as the party of the Union , this Conservative Government have seek to address those concern by replace the protocol with the Windsor framework . I maintain that the Windsor framework be , and be , a good deal for Northern Ireland that address the issue around the old protocol and set out a new way forward . however , it alone do not prove sufficient to allow the devolved institution to function with the cross - community support that be such an essential bedrock of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . as such , for the past few month , my team and I have be hold discussion with the Northern Ireland political party on how we could see the return of devolved institution . those discussion have be long and necessarily tough , but that be testament to the patience of all Northern Ireland ' s political leader , who — as I have see at first hand — work tirelessly to make sure that Northern Ireland be the most prosperous and safe society it can be . one of the people I have be talk to most be the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) . it have be a pleasure to work with he on these matter , and it be also a pleasure to confirm recently that the Government will support his Bill that seek to create a dedicated route for eligible irish national who wish to apply for british citizenship . if pass , that legislation would support the close historical and geographical tie between Ireland and the UK , and I commend he on championing that cause . I be also pleased to be able to outline today the package of measure we be announce , which have four key element . first , it far protect Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom by demonstrate our commitment to restore power sharing so that it have the broad support from across the community in Northern Ireland . I know that I be not alone in believe firmly that the long - term interest of the Union be serve by persuade those who might not vote for unionist party , or even think of themselves as Unionists , that Northern Ireland within the United Kingdom offer the good solution for they and their child . I have always believe that make Northern Ireland work — indeed , make Northern Ireland thrive — be the sure way to safeguard the Union , and I commend all Unionists on take bold step to make that case for the Union , too . we will also legislate to reaffirm Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status , include as reflect in the act of Union . we will also recognise in domestic law that , with the vital democratic safeguard of the Stormont brake that a new Assembly would wield , the idea of automatic and permanent dynamic alignment of EU law no long apply . we will also future - proof Northern Ireland ' s position within the UK ' s internal market against any future protocol that would create a new EU law alignment for Northern Ireland , and with it , barrier between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . secondly , the deal promote and strengthen the UK internal market , deliver new legislation to guarantee and future - proof unfettered access for Northern Ireland good to the whole of the UK internal market , and ensure that internal trade within the United Kingdom take place under a new UK internal market system . only yesterday , we see how quickly progress have be make , with a joint legal solution reach with the European Union on tariff rate quota . that solution , which will be take forward at the next UK - EU Joint Committee , will ensure that Northern Ireland trader can benefit from the UK ' s independent free trade policy when import agrifood good , reflect Northern Ireland ' s integral place in the UK ' s custom territory . to maintain that focus on deliver in the interest of business for the future , we will put in place new structure , such as a new independent monitoring panel to ensure a practical and pragmatic approach without gold - plating . thirdly , the deal will recognise the importance of the connection across the United Kingdom , now and in the future . a new UK - wide east - west economic council will bring business and Ministers together to identify the opportunity that unite we across all part of the United Kingdom , and a new body — InterTrade UK — will promote and facilitate trade within the United Kingdom , recognise that while international trade be important , so too be the vital trade that occur within our internal market . finally , the deal will help put Northern Ireland ' s public service on a sustainable footing , with funding total over £ 3 billion to support public service in Northern Ireland and provide a solid foundation for the Executive to deliver well outcome in the day - to - day life of the people in Northern Ireland . that funding be part of a financial package I announce before Christmas that will help address public sector pay pressure ; provide an update Barnett formula for Northern Ireland , now and into the future , reflect the need and unique circumstance of the people of Northern Ireland ; and give the Executive significant funding to stabilise public finance . much of what I be announce today be the result of a significant period of negotiation between the Government and the Democratic Unionist party , lead by the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) . many of we in this Chamber last week could not have fail to be strike by his unshakeable advocacy on behalf of the Unionist cause . that same determination , fortitude and tact be at the heart of his approach during those detailed discussion , and far to the right hon . member ' s comment in this place last week , I be absolutely sure that the whole House will join I in express support for he in utterly condemn those shameless figure who have try to threaten and intimidate he for simply do his job . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] the right hon . Member be a man who be truly committed to Northern Ireland . he be truly committed to the Union , and have always work hard to find solution and improvement when other have take the far easy path of simply criticise and heckle from the sideline . the result — as I hope hon . member will agree — be a deal that , take as a whole , be the right one for Northern Ireland and for the Union . with this package , it be now time for elect representative in Northern Ireland to come together , end the two year of impasse and start work again in the interest of the people who elect they . this week , the right hon . member for Lagan Valley be clear that this depend on the Government demonstrate their commitment to the Union , not just in word but in deed . that be exactly what we will do . today , I be publish the detail of the deal , but I be also lay before the House the statutory instrument that enshrine several of its commitment in law . those instrument will be debate in this place tomorrow , subject to a change in its future business with the will of the House , as an immediate show of good faith . once those instrument be pass by this House , as I hope they will be , I trust we will have the condition to move onwards and to see Ministers back in post in Stormont swiftly . as those minister take their place , they will face massive challenge , but they have the tool to grasp those challenge , not least in move to resolve the public sector pay issue that have be so disruptive . they will also be able to grasp the opportunity offer by Northern Ireland ' s unique economic position and the good will that it enjoy across the world . it be only right that I acknowledge that , for many in the community , an important part of this will be see Michelle o ' Neill take her place as First Minister follow the democratic mandate she win at the May 2022 Assembly election , recognise that the First and Deputy First Ministers remain equal in law . I look forward to work with the new First Minister and Deputy First Minister and all their colleague in the Northern Ireland Executive to improve the life of people from all background , whether unionist , nationalist or other . as we move forward swiftly to give effect to our commitment , I urge the party to do the same thing by notify the Speaker of the Northern Ireland Assembly to recall Stormont , elect a First Minister and Deputy First Minister , and appoint new Ministers to the Executive . it be time to build on the progress of the last 25 year . today , we have present a plan that will deliver the long - term change that Northern Ireland need . it will strengthen Northern Ireland ' s place in our Union and guarantee the free flow of good across the entire United Kingdom . it be only by stick to this plan that we will become a more united and prosperous country together , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . this be a very significant moment . it be our chance to restore to the people of Northern Ireland what they desperately need but have be without for almost two year : a function Government . it will also mark a first in Northern Ireland history when Michelle o ' Neill take up her position as Sinn F é in First Minister in a power - share Government with a DUP Deputy First Minister . I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his tireless effort that have bring we to this point . his be a great achievement . I would like to acknowledge the courageous and decisive leadership of the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , who in the face of abuse have consistently and persuasively make his case for change , while always be clear that he want to return to government with an agreement that be acceptable to all community . I also want to thank the other party leader in Northern Ireland — and I join the Secretary of State in do so — who , with great wisdom , have allow the time and the space for this deal to be reach , as well as to express my thank to all the official involve . on the legislative change that the right hon . Gentleman the Secretary of State have set out , I welcome the Government ' s commitment not to ratify any new Northern Ireland - relate agreement with the EU that would create new regulatory border . this will be a helpful brake on divergence . could the Secretary of State say when the new UK internal market lane will come into being ? we will of course examine in detail all the proposal in the statutory instrument to which the right hon . Gentleman refer — I understand that we be likely to debate they tomorrow — because we need to get on with this so that the Assembly can be recall and the Executive establish as quickly as possible . I have always make it clear that we believe in Northern Ireland ' s place in the internal market of the United Kingdom , and that we support any practical measure to reinforce it that be consistent with the Windsor framework , which we also support , and that have the support of nationalist as well as Unionists . on that basis , we will vote for the legislation . the money that the Secretary of State have announce , include the need - base funding formula and the stabilisation funding , will enable a restore Executive and Assembly to give public sector worker a pay rise , for which they have wait too long , and to start to tackle the huge challenge face community and public service and make the most of the great economic potential of Northern Ireland . we also welcome the plan to defer and then write off Stormont ' s overspend , provide that the Executive produce a new fiscal sustainability plan . how quickly do the right hon . Gentleman expect the money to be transfer , and when do he think the new Executive will produce a budget ? finally , as we reflect on the importance of this moment , since the Good Friday agreement be sign the people of Northern Ireland have be without a devolved government for over a third of the time . do the right hon . Gentleman agree with I that we need to work together — all of we in the House — to prevent the institution from collapse again in the year ahead ? stability be everything , especially to the people of Northern Ireland after all they have be through , and we all have a duty to ensure that it endure . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his very kind word and for all the work he have do with I on these matter . I really do appreciate the way we have be able to work together . it have contribute to our get to this point and it have make a big difference , so I thank he for that . the shadow Secretary of State be completely right that everyone in this House will need to work together to ensure stability for Northern Ireland and to ensure that the institution do not fall again . it be vital that we all understand the responsibility that sit with we in this place : we be guarantor of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . we have a responsibility to the people of Northern Ireland , and in every way we should consider that in everything we do , because this Union be strong for it . the shadow Secretary of State ask some question . we hope to have the UK internal market lane in operation as soon as possible , and we obviously need some legal change — I mean , other change — to have that do . the money will flow as soon as the new Executive be up and run , and I very much hope that a new Executive will be sit very soon . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I warmly commend the hard work of my right hon . friend — and good friend — the Secretary of State . it be only a week ago that we pass legislation to extend the election period , and hear the impressive and powerful speech of the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) . he have demonstrate , with his colleague in the DUP , that to lead be to choose and to make difficult decision . they have do that , and I think respect and praise be due in large measure for their hard work . I be particularly pleased that the Command Paper incorporate many of the sensible recommendation from the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , which we share , on further legislation to make sure that the position of Northern Ireland within the UK internal market be absolutely cement . I be particularly pleased that the Command Paper look forward to new investment — not just the important investment in public service , but the enhance investment zone proposal of £ 150 million , which will be at the centre of how we attract new inward investment to realise the huge potential that Northern Ireland present for job and the economy both here in the UK and across the wide world . it be tempting for this Parliament , once it pass the secondary legislation , to say that the job be do , but we can not afford to devolve and forget . will my right hon . friend assure I that this Government will not devolve and forget ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his welcome for this package of measure . it be a package , and it have be negotiate over a long period of time , with a well understanding of all the thing that Northern Ireland need to be an active and wonderful part of the Union . I welcome his comment on the investment zone , and he be absolutely correct in what he say at the end . Northern Ireland will never be forget in this place , and I hope we be demonstrate that today . I call the SNP spokesperson . can I just say on behalf of my party that we very much welcome the progress that have be make ? we be firmly of the view that Northern Ireland be govern well when it be govern locally , and we welcome the publication of the Command Paper . I would like to take this opportunity to recognise the distance that have be travel by all party in get to this point , but we be bring to this point by a failure of politic around the manner in which the UK choose to leave the European Union . now that the politic have move on , it be time for the politician in Northern Ireland to step up , and we wish the mla well in that endeavour and look forward to see the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister take office in what will be a very significant moment in history for all in these island . the Secretary of State describe his party as be the party of the Union , and I say to he that it have not go unnoticed in other part of the Union that Northern Ireland have for some time have the offer of a status , in its access to the UK market and to the european market , that other part of the Union be now deprive of . I be sure that voter will draw their own conclusion from that . I want to ask two question . when might the detail of any new fiscal framework emerge ? while I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new east - west economic council , can the Secretary of State clarify what role there might be for the other devolve institution in these island to make that new council as successful as it possibly can be ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , his welcome and his help in the past few week and month , which have be much appreciated . again , it have help we to get to this place . he be right to recognise that Northern Ireland be a special place , and have a special place as the only part of the United Kingdom with a land border with the EU . in the past , that have create disadvantage , but we hope it will create advantage for it in the future . everyone recognise that ; it be recognise in the Windsor framework and , as he will see , in various choice we be make in the Command Paper . on the fiscal framework , I very much hope that the incoming Northern Ireland Executive and Ministers responsible will work with his Majesty ' s Treasury in great detail to make sure that we get that absolutely right . I have never conduct a negotiation with his Majesty ' s Treasury in that sort of way , but I imagine that it have quite tight pocket , be very difficult to get hold of and probably would not want ongoing commentary . however , I be sure that it will make the matter as public as it can , when it can . finally , on the east - west body , it be important that it work with all part of Great Britain . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his patience on this deal , as well as the Prime Minister and the DUP on negotiate such a tough and positive document . the Northern Ireland party have be incredibly patient through the past month , and I pay tribute to they . I put on record my thank to the Labour party and the shadow Secretary of State for Labour ' s support for the Government ' s deal . this deal will be a huge relief to many across Northern Ireland , who have get to the end of their tether , whether the issue for they be public service , waiting list or other element of society . do the Northern Ireland Secretary agree that the deal be a significant boost to the economy , to peace and to the Union ? I thank the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland for his kind comment . yes , I absolutely believe that this deal will bring great prosperity to Northern Ireland . when I be give this role , I be , in essence , give three task by our Prime Minister . the first be to help he find a route through the Northern Ireland protocol conundrum , and that become the Windsor framework . the second be to try to get Stormont up and run , so that local people make decision for their fellow people in Northern Ireland , and I would like to think that we be get there . the third be to make Northern Ireland one of the most prosperous part of our United Kingdom ; I think we can all agree on that aim . on occasion such as this , it be courteous to thank the Minister or Secretary of State for the statement , but may I , on behalf of my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and my party , thank the Secretary of State most sincerely for his steadfast endurance in our negotiation , for his commitment to ensure that we get to this stage , for not give up , and for resolve the issue that have be an impediment to devolution operate sufficiently and properly in Northern Ireland ? he will know that on Monday evening and into Tuesday morning , my party take a significant decision to move forward , on the basis of what we know to be in the Command Paper publish today . although we be tell that the Windsor framework could not be reopen , we have succeed . although we be tell that there would be no change to the green lane , it be go . we be tell that there would be no removal of barrier to trade between GB and Northern Ireland , but we have remove all check within the UK internal market system , save for those ordinarily require for deal with criminality and the prevention of smuggling . we be tell that there would be no legal change to the Windsor framework or the EU text , yet — this be part of the process of ensure trust and commitment — colleague will have notice the publication just yesterday of more than 60 page of legislative change to text on the european perspective . that will allow rest - of - the - world product and the benefit of UK - wide trade deal to truly be available UK - wide . we be very grateful to the Secretary of State and to the Prime Minister , who be here early , and we be grateful for the offer of support and commitment from his Majesty ' s loyal opposition and the Leader of the Opposition . we be grateful for have get to this place today . we have turn the impossible into the possible , and be deliver the undeliverable in this Command Paper . we be hopeful for the future , but the Secretary of State will know that our position be predicate on full and faithful implementation and delivery of what we have achieve . today ' s Command Paper and yesterday ' s legislative change be publish ; in the spirit of the trust that we have establish , and give the process that need to flow , I would be very grateful if he could indicate that tomorrow , subject to what the Leader of the House do , we will see the introduction and passage of the legislation that be so crucial to this programme . I thank the hon . gentleman for that . as I mention in my statement , he have be integral to what have be happen over the past few week and month . I really do enjoy work with he , and be look forward to do so in the future . he mention a host of thing . he be right to say that the Command Paper be clear : we will provide clear legal direction to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs and other UK Government authority to eliminate any physical check when good move within the UK internal market system , save for those check require as part of manage the risk of criminality , abuse of the scheme , smuggling and disease . the hon . Gentleman know more than anyone that the deal be about safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . we have set out what that involve . it include new measure in domestic legislation to affirm unfettered access and Northern Ireland ' s constitutional position , as well as new structure , and step to ensure that the full benefit of the Windsor framework be feel by people and business . as be show by the draft tariff text that he mention , we can continue to show the joint solution that the UK and EU can deliver under the Windsor framework . he ask I a very specific question about the timetable . I be committed to the timetable , as be the Government . everybody in this House should know that . in all transparency , it be unbelievably important that , with the leave of the House , we get the business change , so that we can debate those two statutory instrument and they can be pass . they be a fundamental part of the timetable that lead to Stormont ' s return . I welcome the progress make towards the restoration of power sharing , and thank the Secretary of State and the DUP for their dedicated work on that . I be sure there will be much to welcome in the paper publish today , which we will need to scrutinise carefully in the 30 or so hour before we be ask to vote on they . however , one thing that we know that they do not contain be a removal of Northern Ireland from single market legislation . will the Secretary of State ensure that the Government commit to continue the dialogue with the EU , so that we can amend the Windsor framework , and restore democratic control over law making in every part of our United Kingdom ? I thank my right hon . friend — one of the long - serve former Secretaries of State in this House — for her comment and question . she be absolutely right in all she say . the Command Paper , which I do hope people will have the opportunity to read before tomorrow , contain quite an amount of detail on the deal . it be a comprehensive deal . the statutory instrument tomorrow be just two small part of a much wide package of item in the deal ; this be all outline and detail in the Command Paper . to answer my right hon . friend ' s question , she will also see an important change that we intend to make to section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 ; it now have a powerful democratic safeguard in the Stormont brake , which the new Assembly will have immediately at its fingertip . as the member behind I know , I be marry in County Armagh at the very height of the trouble , and I hear the explosion and see the huge bomb damage . tragically , my wife ' s family lose a number of friend in the trouble . I serve for 12 year in the Scottish Parliament , so I have some knowledge of devolution . may I therefore ask the Secretary of State to make possible the maximum liaison between a restore Stormont — Godspeed to that — and devolve institution such as the Scottish Parliament , so that the maximum benefit can be draw from responsible working devolution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; he be absolutely right . I know of his history and the story about his wife , which he have mention to I a number of time . I thank he for his interest in all thing Northern Ireland and all thing Union . in fact , there be a body , the british - Irish Council , that do exactly what he suggest , at the high level . hopefully , at the next meeting of the british - Irish Council , the First Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland will attend with representative of all the other devolve Administrations of the United Kingdom . the propose legislation be of great constitutional significance , yet it be merely a statutory instrument and not an Act of Parliament . what restriction on its lawmaking have the EU agree over the single market in Northern Ireland ? what democratic improvement be be make to the Stormont brake in Northern Ireland to ensure divergence , and to enable the United Kingdom Government to remove or veto the imposition of EU law ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he and I have have a number of discussion over the year on these sort of matter , and his question be a very wise one . as I mention , we be amend section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , so there be now a powerful democratic safeguard on the flow of EU law , which a new Assembly will have immediately at its fingertip . I thank my hon . friend , because I know about the work that he do to ensure that section 38 be include in the Act . I hope he recognise that we be add Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom , which be a strong addition to section 38 of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2020 . indeed , his original clause have be a big part of the solution to this conundrum , and I be truly grateful to he for it . despite the gain make by my party leader and deputy party leader in these negotiation , the fact remain that there be still eu - man border post be build in Northern Ireland , which will create a border within our own country . when the Northern Ireland Assembly sit , Ministers and Assembly Members will be expect by law to adhere to and implement law that be make in Brussels , which they will have no say over , no ability to amend and no ability to stop . that be a result of this spineless , weak - kneed and Brexit - betray Government refuse to take on the EU and its interference in Northern Ireland . the Government have admit that there will be divergence in the future . on page 17 of the Command Paper , there be an indication that there will be a legal requirement to assess whether new legislation impact on trade between Northern Ireland and GB . if it do , Ministers have to make a statement . we have have the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , say only this week that that do not mean that the UK Government can not introduce law that diverge from the EU law that apply in Northern Ireland . which be it ? be Northern Ireland go to find that it have the ability to stay tie to the United Kingdom , or will the Government happily proceed to change law here in Westminster , regardless of the impact it have on Northern Ireland ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , but some of the point he make be actually incorrect . in the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill , we say that there would be check on good go into the EU single market . I think that every piece of legislation we have propose in this place have say that , but it will be UK folk operate the UK internal market scheme . today , on the fourth anniversary of our leave the European Union , I can tell he that the agree package of measure will not change the freedom and power we have secure through Brexit or the Windsor framework . it will not reduce our ability to diverge , nor our commitment to do so , should it be in the interest of the United Kingdom . the right hon . Gentleman refer to clause 13c in one of the statutory instrument . a whole swathe of thing happen behind the scene before a Bill be bring before this House . one of they , which the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have complain to I about before , be something we call the parliamentary business and legislation committee , or PBL . we do a Star Chamber of Bills , and the Secretaries of State for Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales attend to state whether there be any adverse effect of the legislation be moot . what the right hon . Gentleman rightly ask for be transparency and the publication of a write ministerial statement when there be the possibility of a significant adverse effect on GB - NI trade . publish a write ministerial statement be not in any way what he say it be . may I congratulate my right hon . friend and the DUP ? clearly , this be still a highly emotive issue , and understandably so , because when we leave the EU , I , the House and the country be promise that we would leave as a United Kingdom . Northern Ireland be part of the United Kingdom but , as we have hear , it will still be subject to EU law , so that axe be still grind away and we must get rid of it . what be unhelpful be Sinn F é in ' s whisper about unification at this highly emotive time . can my right hon . friend tell I , the House and this country that Northern Ireland will always be part of the United Kingdom ? we be strong together . I have to tread slightly more carefully on that particular issue , because as Secretary of State I be responsible for make an independent assessment of the condition that might lead to the border poll to which my hon . friend allude . I have to be very careful , but I be comfortable suggest that , certainly in my lifetime , Northern Ireland will be a strong and wonderfully prosperous part of the United Kingdom . however , it be very important to outline the part of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement that allow for all these thing to happen , and any change would absolutely depend on the consent of both community at the time . I certainly do not think anybody judge that to be in place at this point . it be important to point out that the people of Ireland , north and south , will decide the constitutional future of Ireland — nobody else . this be a very good day for the people of Northern Ireland , and I be very glad to see it . we be about to see something very significant : we will have the first ever nationalist First Minister and the first ever nationalist leader of the opposition , and I wish they well . in order to properly maintain this progress and make the most of it , will the Secretary of State convene a process with all the political party and the Irish Government to look at how we can reform the institution of the Good Friday agreement , to make sure that no one party can ever pull they down again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome the proposal . he mention at the very beginning of his question that the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement rely on the consent of both community and then suggest reform , which certainly do not have the consent of one of they . however , I understand the point he make . when people have ask I about future reform of the institution , I have always say that this be a conversation that should be start within Stormont and by the people of Northern Ireland and their elect representative . the thing I hope for be not that particular conversation ; it be for Stormont to be return so that elect folk from Northern Ireland can govern for the people of Northern Ireland . it be absolutely vital that the democratic institution and lawmaking power be return to the elect politician in Northern Ireland , and today be clearly very historic and symbolic . at the same time , however , we know that Northern Ireland ' s economic lifeblood be link to the rest of GB , and I concur with the rest of my colleague who have speak on this issue . it be vital that we ensure not only that there be the ability to diverge and have the freedom to secure Northern Ireland ' s economic lifeblood , but that the prosperity of Northern Ireland remain . may I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that we have the full ability to do that , and that it will be back up by this Government in Westminster ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I be delighted to give she the assurance she seek , because this announcement will reduce neither our ability to diverge , nor our commitment to do so should that be in the interest of the United Kingdom . many of we welcome this day and hope that the restoration of Stormont be possible . if the Government be capable of remove trade barrier with the European Union for the constituent of Belfast , many of my constituent would like to see they do the same for they . may I press the Secretary of State on what he say about amend section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , because he will know that be the foundation of the practical application of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement that many of we hold dear . his Command Paper talk about the " pipeline of EU law " . can he clarify for the avoidance of doubt that any amendment he make will not see any regression at all in the right uphold in that document , and in particular the right afford to every single member of the community in Northern Ireland in the wording of the Good Friday agreement and under the european convention on human right ? yes , I absolutely can . may I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for his important endorsement , which be encouraging ? may I ask my right hon . friend about paragraph 145 of the Command Paper ? can he give an example of the circumstance in which a Minister might say that there would be an effect on the internal market and what that might restrict in practice ? off the top of my head , I can not give an example , because I have not yet need to do that in the PBL — parliamentary business and legislation committee — as I have state . the practical effect be one of transparency . I be aware that there be many Select Committee Chairs in this place . we want to ensure that when a Bill potentially have a substantial adverse effect on GB - NI trade and we be make those decision , we be transparent about it and we tell people about it . the good way to do that be to inform this House through a write ministerial statement . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I remind he that we have be press the Government for action rather than word for more than two year , but we welcome the fact that action have be take , both on trading and the constitutional position . do he agree that subsequent to the next few day , we need to continue to work to close the narrow gap that remain ? we have make significant and substantial progress towards what we ask the Government to do . will he also indicate to the wide community in Northern Ireland that even when someone get a large number of vote , such as Sinn F é in , if they have a mantra that their day will come , it will also go with less fanfare ? I very much agree with the hon . Gentleman . I see all politic as a process , actually . all politic be an evolution . in the Windsor framework , there be provision for when matter be discuss about Northern Ireland in the Joint Committee — the body that look at the EU - UK relationship , legislation and its effect — that the First Minister and Deputy First Minister can attend . we be not only move on through Stormont return , but we be ensure that Northern Ireland ' s voice be hear and that that process can continue . give everything that the Secretary of State have say , can he assure the House that article 6 of the Act of Union , which guarantee that everybody within that Union shall not be disadvantage in any way , particularly with reference to trade , be still in place and will remain so ? I point my hon . friend to the very large section and annex in the Command Paper on the act of Union . I know my colleague the shadow Secretary of State dig out the act of Union to read they in relation to this business . there be many bit of the act of Union that we would not really want to have now , because they introduce tariff of their own , but I ask my hon . friend to look at the annex in the Command Paper where we go into great detail on exactly the answer he want . we thank the Secretary of State for his very welcome statement , and we take the opportunity to congratulate Michelle o ' neill on become the First Minister and all the other party that have manage to bring this agreement about . do he think that this agreement will lead to an increase in all - Ireland institution and their effectiveness — in culture , tourism , transport , health and so on — and do he agree with the point , make by the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , that ultimately it be for the people of Ireland to decide their long - term future , not anyone else ? on the second point , it be for the people of Ireland and Northern Ireland to decide their future in that particular matter . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that there be a little way to go in this process before we have the First Minister and Deputy First Minister sit , and this be an important part of that timetable , but we welcome that happen . he ask about all - Ireland institution . this agreement mean that those institution set up by the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , such as the North South Ministerial Council , can function correctly , and it also set up new east - west body to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom be equally recognise and make strong . may I join the shadow Secretary of State in hugely welcome this great achievement by the Secretary of State , by the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and by all the other party leader with whom he successfully agree to re - establish devolved Government at Stormont ? as the son of a Northern Ireland Unionist family , I believe it will only be good for the stability and prosperity of Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom . can my right hon . friend confirm when the internal market levy and the change to tariff on good from country with which the UK have a free trade agreement will come into place ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . the factually correct answer be probably that those measure will come into place when the legislation be pass through this place . the Secretary of State know that 2025 be just too long to wait for veterinary medicine issue to be resolve in Northern Ireland . that grace period be totally unacceptable . he know it will decimate veterinary practice , affect farm viability and , accord to the British Veterinary Association , have a detrimental impact on public health . in paragraph 141 of this Command Paper , the Secretary of State indicate that he will set up a veterinary medicine working group . I welcome that , but will he confirm that if a speedy solution be not bring forward by the spring , he will table legislation in this House to unilaterally deal with this matter once and for all ? the hon . Gentleman be right ; I think it be paragraph 136 to 141 in the Command Paper that detail the issue he have rightly raise in this place , with I privately and in meeting with my official . it be probably fair to say that he be the genesis of the veterinary medicine work group idea in paragraph 141 . that group will receive expert opinion , and that be a vital part of the solution to this problem . my intention be to listen carefully to the group ' s recommendation , because it will have the expert in this matter . at that point , he and I can have the next bit of conversation , although I hope that will not need to be the case , because I would like to think we can pursue solution through technical discussion with the European Union , but let we see . I echo the comment of many colleague across the House in welcome the progress make on this matter . through the Secretary of State , I thank the many people involve for the effort they have put in . we have two draft statutory instrument before we amend two set of primary legislation , with the word " constitutional law " in one of they . the question ask during this statement hint at the breadth and depth of the issue that such instrument raise . it seem slightly incongruous that they be come to this place last , even though they be the first concern of this House . do my right hon . friend agree that hon . member should have time to read , digest and debate the instrument ? can he explain why the current proposal be for exactly that to be do in just 24 hour and with a short debate ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; I know that he have talk to my Minister of State on these matter . actually , our Standing Orders state the debating time for these thing . the House be an interesting being , and I would not want to get in the way of its Standing Orders . secondly , as I try to underline in a previous answer , a timetable have be agree with the Democratic Unionist party , which the Government be commit to , and if we fulfil it , that will lead to the restoration of Stormont . the House be full of agile and able member of Parliament who be amazingly good at scrutiny , and I know that they can do that very , very well in the time provide . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and I thank my party leader and deputy leader for the many gain in the Command Paper . however , our leader say that there remain work to do . will the Secretary of State therefore confirm whether Northern Ireland still remain under the EU ' s single market law for the production of food and agrifood ? do the EU custom code still apply in Northern Ireland ? do he accept that such a situation be not compatible with UK sovereignty and Northern Ireland ' s place as a full part of the United Kingdom ? in accept that , would he say that more work need do on this ? will he far outline what assurance he have have from the EU that the rule govern the new internal market system be acceptable to it ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . may I recommend that she re - read the Windsor framework and indeed the Command Paper ? I applaud the Secretary of State , the Minister of State and the wide Northern Ireland team . I know — I have see this up close and personal — how passionate and dedicated they be on this issue . the people of Northern Ireland will ultimately be the winner when it come to decision be make locally , close to they . as a Member of Parliament from the new intake , I think it be a great shame that we have often feel at loggerhead with Democratic Unionist party member . ultimately , I share a huge amount of their value , and I absolutely appreciate their passion and how closely they cling to their identity . I share that passion . will the Secretary of State ensure that this mark a new chapter when we can work more collaboratively to promote the place of Northern Ireland within our Union , which we all love ? I thank my hon . friend . I know that he be passionate about Northern Ireland : indeed , I see his passion when I host he and he visit and look around Northern Ireland . the answer to his question be yes . yes , we need to move forward . yes , we need to work with the democratic Unionists . yes , we need a positive way forward for Unionism so that Northern Ireland can forever stay part of our United Kingdom . I be hopeful that Northern Ireland be now in a well place . I have always understand that , in the context of a hard Brexit , Northern Ireland would require some special arrangement . my party have always be open to maximise flexibility , provide that those be do in a legal way and that we protect our dual market access . on the financial package , I very much welcome the £ 3 . 3 billion for Northern Ireland , which reflect a cross - party effort . will the Secretary of State acknowledge that there be a need for a further discussion to happen — potentially in the next Parliament — on a long - term review of Northern Ireland ' s fiscal framework and fiscal floor ? on reform , will he recognise that , build on precedent , the UK Government must lead that process ? if we be talk about safeguard the Union , we also have to talk about safeguard the Assembly and the Executive . I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , which have be raise with I for month — if not since I become Secretary of State — by the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who be rather keen on make sure that we have a long - term agreement and process in this space . I really look forward to work with Ministers in a reform Executive on exactly that . in the light of the answer the Secretary of State give to my hon . friend the Member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) — or the lack of an answer — I would like to reiterate that point as well as ask about implementation and how Northern Ireland be affect by not get access to duty - free . every other airport in the United Kingdom have access to duty - free , yet those fly from Northern Ireland to any part of Europe can not avail themselves of duty - free — it be the only airport on these island where that can not be do . that be one area where the single market be affect we . we be still part of that single market and , from what I see in the Command Paper , we will continue to be . as a consequence , in our energy market in Northern Ireland — I would like an answer on this — we be pay a carbon tax at an entirely different rate from any other part of Great Britain . for our electricity supply , our carbon offset be twice the level pay in any other part of the United Kingdom . what measure on that be include in the Command Paper ? it be hand to we at what I would call the eleventh hour and 59th minute . we would like to be give time to get into the detail . we very much feel like we be be bounce through a timetable and that we will not get through the detail that be supposedly in the statutory instrument and the Command Paper . the hon . Gentleman raise a number of important point . I think it be fair to say that Northern Ireland be part of a single energy market across the island of Ireland well before we leave the European Union and that there have always be interaction on that basis . the answer to his question be contain in the Command Paper . there be a whole host of thing to say , but I will just make the point about the difference for Northern Ireland . it do have access to the EU single market and unfettered access to the UK ' s internal market , but it be not subjugate to the European Union arrangement . it will not pay into the European Union budget . it be not subject to European Union freedom of movement , service rule , environmental rule , labour rule or procurement rule ; neither be it subject to the European Medicines Agency , the common agricultural policy or the common fishery policy . Northern Ireland have unique circumstance because of its geographic location . everybody recognise that . we want it to thrive in our Union , and with the Command Paper that direction of travel be set . I welcome the statement . if a future UK Government be to diverge substantially from EU product regulation and standard for Great Britain , what would be the impact on what the Secretary of State have announce today ? first , we would be allow to do that — 100 % . secondly , there would be a write ministerial statement state that exact fact so that Ministers and other in the Northern Ireland Assembly could debate and make provision for it . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement and the hard work he have do — I say that sincerely . government action until now have undermine some of the trust of Unionist people , so there be a clear need for message from the Government that the concern that unionist have be express for the last two year be be deal with through secure legislative process here and with the EU . my Strangford constituent — some of they be in the Gallery today — be proud of their Britishness . I be sure that the Secretary of State can confirm — I hope he can — that we in Northern Ireland be as british as those in London , Cardiff , Manchester and Newcastle , and , indeed , Edinburgh and Scotland as well . and Daventry . I can confirm that 100 % . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I be very proud that he be a proud Brit , as I be . business of the House with permission , I will make a short business statement about an addition to tomorrow ' s business . follow the statement by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , the business tomorrow will now be : Thursday 1 February — a debate on motion to approve the draft Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 and the draft Windsor Framework ( Internal Market and Unfettered Access ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a general debate on miner and mining community , follow by debate on a motion on freedom and democracy in Iran . the subject of these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . I will announce further business in the usual way on Thursday . I thank the Leader of the House for the update to the business and for advance sight of her announcement . as the shadow Northern Ireland Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) say , we welcome the decision of the Democratic Unionist party to return to the Northern Ireland Executive follow negotiation , subject to commitment by the Government and to legislation be pass . we also thank the other party of Northern Ireland for their forbearance and co - operation . this be a very important moment . we warmly welcome the progress so far , especially for the people of Northern Ireland , who have be without their government for almost two year and for five of the past seven year . I welcome the publication of the Command Paper and the statutory instrument , and the fact that the business have change tomorrow so that we can speedily consider these matter in the timetable set out , although I be sure other member will want time to consider they . could the Leader of the House let we know whether she anticipate that consequential legislation will be need in due course , such as legislation to establish the internal lane ? like the hon . Lady , I thank all party who have be involve in get we to what have be describe as an historic moment . it be a good thing for the people of Northern Ireland that this be happen . I want to place on record my thank to everyone who have be involve . I thank the hon . Lady for welcome , understandably , the change of business tomorrow . with regard to her sole question , the answer be yes , and that be set out in the Command Paper . I thank the Leader of the House for make provision for a debate on the statutory instrument tomorrow . we have before we those two instrument , which address a wide range of issue : movement of good in the UK , the internal market , and Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK . each of those have be subject to multiple lengthy debate in this House . will she consider make time for two debate — one on each draft statutory instrument — thereby double the time that member have to consider these matter in this House ? my hon . friend be right that there have be a tremendous amount of discussion of these issue on the Floor of the House . as the Secretary of State acknowledge early , the Standing Orders protect time for debate on statutory instrument to 90 minute . I be sure that my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate on a particular topic , but the Standing Orders will protect the time tomorrow . there be little to add to this short statement , as there will be more discussion on this late legislation tomorrow . I want to state on the record that I welcome the progress that have be make , particularly as a former Northern Ireland spokesperson . of course , there be much to be do , so I send my sincere good wish to all those in the Assembly who , hopefully soon , will step up to their place and their great responsibility to the people of Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . Lady for her support in this matter , and I very much welcome her party ' s support , too . just to be clear , we be present with the United Kingdom ' s internal market piece of legislation , a Northern Ireland constitutional law piece of legislation , and 80 page of a Command Paper . with the good will in the world , we will get on to that around midday tomorrow . the maximum time possible be probably three hour for all that . that be insufficient time for the Front Benchers and all the Back Benchers with an interest in this matter to properly debate and scrutinise such legislation . be there no opportunity to extend the proceeding to allow lengthy consideration of the legislation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . he know what be set out in the Standing Orders . I appreciate where he be come from , but I point he to the comment the Secretary of State make a moment ago about the external timetable that we need to keep pace with . as always , I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement . far to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , I be conscious that there will be quite a few speaker for the debate after that on miner and Iran and human right issue . give the time need for the Northern Ireland legislation , and be ever mindful of how important it be to get it sort , with no disrespect to the other two debate , be it humanly possible to have all the time between 12 noon and 5 pm for debate on the legislation that we need in Northern Ireland ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , " welcome to my world . " we be try to accommodate all party . there be an additional Select Committee statement on tomorrow ' s agenda , which we be talk to official about to try accommodate tomorrow . I hope to update the House on that later . be it not a fact that , now this Government have the Assembly on the fishing hook , they really do not care one iota about scrutiny of the bait be use to get the Assembly back ? have introduce the Command Paper to the House today and have get a commitment to the Assembly , I suggest that this government do not give two hoot about whether there be sufficient time to see whether the promise make will be fulfil . I have great respect for the right hon . Gentleman , but I think he be wrong in that assertion . there will be many strong feeling on all side of the House about various aspect of the position we have get to , but the comment make from all side of the House during the Secretary of State ' s statement indicate that this be an important step forward and be to be welcome . inevitably , it be a compromise ; people have have to compromise to get here , and I applaud they for do that . there will be future debate on these matter . my colleague on the Front Bench will be very happy to answer any point that the right hon . Gentleman raise . my right hon . friend the Minister of State , Northern Ireland Office , be an example of conviction , passion and determination on the issue that the hon . Gentleman care deeply about . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at the start of Prime Minister ' s question , the Speaker remind the House about the use of language . the debate on Gaza be get far more emotive , and the language use have be questionable in one or two case , as I be sure you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker . one of the SNP Members ask a question about Gaza and , after the question be answer , a member of the SNP — I can not identify they — accuse the Prime Minister of be Pontius Pilate , which we on these Benches hear very clearly . that kind of language be extremely unpleasant because , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , Pontius Pilate wash his hand and hand Jesus over to a murderous death . that be not what the Prime Minister be do . he have an impeccable record on this topic , and be lead with great courage and conviction in a war in Gaza that is , indeed , highly emotive . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . just for the record , I seek your guidance on how to make it very clear that it be not a member of the SNP who say any such thing — I can be absolutely certain about that . I think member might want to be very clear about which party be say thing before make such accusation . how can I put that on the record , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I will come to the other point of order in a moment . I appreciate the point of order make by the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) . I can say only this : Mr Speaker strive throughout Prime Minister ' s question to keep order in this House , but it have become fashionable to make unnecessary noise during the half hour when the Prime Minister and the Leader of the opposition be on the front Benches . generally , this House be well behave , as it be at the moment , and take its duty , responsibility and public image seriously . it be very sad if somebody do make the comment that the hon . member for South Dorset have describe . I take the point make by the hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) that if a remark be make about Pontius Pilate , it be not make by an SNP Member , but actually , as far as the Chair be concern , I do not care who make such a remark . it be wrong to try to whip up bad feeling in this House or anywhere else about the tragedy unfolding in Israel and Palestine . I urge all hon . member , who have different point of view on this emotive subject , to be very careful about what they say in public and in private , but especially in this Chamber . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to think I be an honourable Gentleman , and if indeed I get it wrong , I withdraw the point that the comment be make by an SNP Member . it come from that part of the House , but if it be not an SNP Member , I withdraw that point . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for withdraw that accusation , because it let we at least take that part out of this specific issue . it may be that somebody make that comment , but I really do not care what they say or how they say it . they should not be say anything at all while seat when someone else be ask a question or the Prime Minister be answer it . everyone in this House ought to bear in mind that what be say and do in here have a much wide audience , and we ought to be set an example of be reasonable and careful in the way that we use word and phrase , and never be inflammatory . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my point of order also relate to Israel and Gaza . ITV News recently broadcast a video show the killing of an unarmed civilian in Gaza who be wave a white flag — the international symbol of peace . it be not the first time unarmed people have be kill in Gaza while raise white flag ; in fact , three israeli hostage be brutally kill while topless and wave a white flag . this be deeply concern to I , as I be sure it be to many people in this House . an Israel Defence Forces commander have indicate that the IDF be responsible , say , " there be mistake , it be war . " this incident could potentially constitute a war crime . how can we ensure that the Government come to this House to assure we that this incident will be properly investigate and that UK - supply weapon be not use , and to set out the step be take to ensure that Israel follow the ruling from the International Court of Justice ? I have listen carefully to the hon . Lady , and the point she make be not a point of order for the Chair — not at all . she be make a very serious point about a tragic incident among many thousand of tragic incident that have occur over the past few month , but it be not a point of order for the Chair . the hon . Lady be raise a point that she want to raise with Ministers . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , be recently at the Dispatch Box make a statement on Gaza , and I anticipate it be very likely that a Foreign Office Minister or a Minister from the Ministry of Defence will be here again within a few day to make a further statement . if not , Opposition Front Benchers and other have be most assiduous in ask urgent question to ensure that minister come to the House to answer these important question . the hon . Lady be not ask a question that I can deal with from the Chair ; she be ask a question that she want to ask of a Minister . if she want to ask a question of a Minister , there be various way she can do that : she can put down an urgent question ; she can ask for an Adjournment debate ; she can speak to member on her own Front Bench about have an extended debate in opposition time — I will not list they all . there be many , many way in which the hon . Lady can do that , but I can not answer her question from the Chair . it be not a point of order . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have on two previous occasion ask the Leader of the House to correct the record after she tell this House on 11 January that people in England pay " low tax than people in Scotland and we have manage … a balanced budget " . — [ Official Report , 11 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 455 - 456 . ] at Prime Minister ' s question today , the Prime Minister incorrectly refer to people in Scotland pay high taxis than people in England . I have notify the Prime Minister that I would be refer to he . the House of Commons Library , via the Office for Budget Responsibility , have confirm that the statement make by the Leader of the House and the Prime Minister be both untrue . the majority of people in Scotland pay low taxis — include council tax — than people in England . no UK Government have deliver a balanced budget since 2000 - 2001 , and the current UK Government pay the equivalent of £ 300 million a day in debt interest , while the Scottish Government must , by law , balance their budget every year . give that hon . member must correct inadvertent error at the early opportunity , Madam Deputy Speaker , I seek your guidance and advice as to how to ensure that the Leader of the House and the Prime Minister do indeed correct the record , and your advice as to what measure can be take if hon . member repeat factually incorrect information in this place and appear to — Order . I thank the hon . Lady . once again , I appreciate that member want to use the opportunity of a point of order to make the point that they want to make , but there be a big difference between — [ interruption . ] do not shout while I be speak . there be a difference between a point of order on procedure in this House and a matter of opinion in the interpretation of statistic . there be also — [ interruption . ] will the hon . Lady just be quiet and allow I to answer her question ? there be inevitably difference of opinion on the interpretation of statistic . there be also , as the hon . Lady say , fact , as oppose to opinion . if fact be state wrongly in this House , they should be correct . however , it be not for the Chair to make a judgment as to who correctly interpret the fact put before the House . that be why we have debate and question . we be not mean to come here and all agree with one another . that be why we have this Chamber , where proper debate can take place . if the hon . Lady be say that fact be state wrongly , I be quite sure that a Minister will take the first opportunity to correct those fact . I think , perhaps , the Leader of the House will take that opportunity right now . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would be very happy to . this be obviously a matter of great concern and urgency to the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) — she would normally raise it at business question tomorrow . I be quite sure this have nothing to do with the fact that the former First Minister be in front of the covid inquiry today . [ interruption . ] there be nothing like a good old — [ interruption . ] order . what on earth do you think you be do ? the hon . Lady raise a point . the Leader of the House be answer an aspect of that point . it be not a moment when shouting should occur . to get to the substance of the point , I understand that the hon . Lady mention a House of Commons Library paper that she be rely on to do this . that particular Library paper be use a figure from the Scottish Budget in 2022 , which be out of date . as she will know , income tax out turn be not go to be report for many more month , so she can not make that assertion . what I have do in my response at business question to detailed point on taxation be to give the House direct salary level and the taxis that people be pay north and south of the border . whatever our view and political disagreement , I take my responsibility to this House extremely seriously . let I make it clear once again that there be a difference between point of order on procedure and matter for debate . that be why we have debate . I be quite sure that the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran will raise her point in debate on many occasion over the next few week , as indeed will the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , who make the previous point of order . that be what debate be for and it be not for the Chair to make those decision . Police ( Declaration ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require police officer and certain employee of police force to declare a membership of or affiliation to certain type of society and organisation ; to require such declaration to be accompany by a statement relate to that membership ; and for connected purpose . secret , closed or private society have often be the subject of ridicule . from " Monty Python " to " The Simpsons " , these organisation have be see as silly , strange and perhaps old fashioned , and even today we hear reference to the funny handshake club . however , look beyond the parody and we find network of those with power and authority : club of like - minded individual that look out for their own . we know that these network exist in area of public life . here in the UK , our police model rely on public trust and consent . at the heart of the peelian principle of policing be the idea that public consent be maintain by apply the law fairly and impartially . the College of Policing ' s code of ethic state that to demonstrate that they be apply the law fairly , police force should operate with transparency . the Casey report into culture at the Metropolitan police state : " the check and balance provide by robust scrutiny , governance and accountability be vital for public body , perhaps especially the police with their duty towards and power over the public . " the Independent Office for Police Conduct ' s 2023 report into public perception of the police identify " increase transparency " as a key measure the police could take to improve confidence in policing . with those word in mind , I be seek to bring forward a Bill that , at its heart , provide more transparency to the public . the outcome of the Bill would be to have a public register of association for all officer and civilian work for the police . that be not a particularly new idea in this House . in 1997 , the Home Affairs Committee publish its report , " freemasonry in the Police and the Judiciary " , which conclude : " we recommend that police officer , magistrate , judge and crown prosecutor should be require to register membership of any secret society and that the record should be publicly available . " in February 1998 , the Home Office accept that recommendation , state that all new appointment shall have as a condition of appointment a requirement to declare membership of the Freemasons . the influence of freemasonry on the police have often be discuss over the decade . suggestion of influence in high profile case of police corruption and mismanagement have be shoot down due to a lack of evidence . I be not here to throw accusation , but the continuous mention of freemasonry raise many eyebrow , even in this House . I have use freemasonry as an example , but the Bill do not only apply to that particular society . after all , old boy ' club have always exist within the police , and they can take many shape . the Casey report into the culture at the Metropolitan police highlight the use of WhatsApp group ; closed group of like - minded individual look out for their own — sound familiar ? policing culture have , rightly , be under heavy scrutiny in recent year . allegation of misogyny , racism and homophobia have stick in the public conscience , alongside claim of corruption and collusion . the Government , along with police body , have commit to reform , and a number of inquiry and review have take place . if we be serious about reform police culture , and I think we should be , then we must leave no stone unturned . the Bill serve to act as one of those many stone in need of turn . I must stress that the Bill be not seek to prevent membership to society — not at all — and I be acutely aware of the right to association , and previous precedent that have be set for that in the european convention on human right . we in this House work cross - party . the issue be a police one , not a party political one . I thank my colleague who have sponsor the Bill , who come from three different party . I have speak to so many people about this issue . it be a conversation I enjoy have , because they believe , as I do , that something need to be do , but many do not dare to speak out . so , I be here , speak out once again about reform culture within an organisation . I know the change that can be make when people speak up , have previously set my attention on the Welsh Rugby Union , which have be well document . I believe we in this House can make that important change happen within the police , too . the Police Regulations 2003 state : " no restriction other than those design to secure the proper exercise of the function of a constable shall be impose by the police authority or the chief officer on the private life of member of a police force " . schedule 1 , paragraph 1 state : " a member of a police force shall at all time abstain from any activity which be likely to interfere with the impartial discharge of his duty or which be likely to give rise to the impression amongst member of the public that it may so interfere " . I believe that a balance need to be strike between those two statement , in a way that be still in line with both of they . in 2016 , the police and crime commissioner for South Wales tell " Y Byd ar Bedwar " , a Welsh TV news programme , for those who do not know : " if member of a club or society have to disclose , it take away any hidden agenda … it would be good to have one common system for local authority , police force and health board . only then can we ensure everybody be be treat equally . " for 20 year , I be a teacher , subject to a Disclosure and Barring Service check but not a register of interest , as I be now as an MP . I feel very strongly about the significance and role of culture within organisation , particularly in public service . all organisation have a responsibility to change their culture for the well , by be honest and transparent about matter relate to governance and day - to - day operation . of course , some might argue that if such declaration should be make in police force , they should also be make by member of Parliament give that we be lawmaker , and to they I say , " why not ? " at its inception , member of the Welsh Assembly , as it be then , be require to declare if they be Freemasons , and face criminal charge if they be find to be member and have not declare their membership . when advise that that might conflict with human right law , the Assembly look at its policy again . now member of the Senedd be require to make declaration of membership of any society or organisation , which seem an extremely sensible approach . be part of a society can be inherently positive in enhance friendship , foster new connection and promote fundraising , but if there be a potential for membership of a group or society to be use in protect individual from consequence and in hide the truth , that must be address . restore trust in the police be a monumental task , and I be under no illusion that the Bill be a magic wand , but transparency be essential to that task . it be in our power as lawmaker to make change happen — change that allow for trust in the police to grow . in its 1998 report " Freemasonry in Public Life ' , the Home Affairs Committee conclude : " the solution be a simple one . it require no ban or proscription , which generally have no place in a democratic society . it merely require public servant who be member of a secret society — or ' a society with secret ' as freemason use to say — to disclose their membership . " now be the time to move beyond secrecy . question put and agree to . order , that Tonia Antoniazzi , Sarah Champion , Neil Coyle , Dame Diana Johnson , Ben Lake , Caroline Nokes , Jess Phillips , Liz Saville Roberts and Mr William Wragg present the Bill . Tonia Antoniazzi accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 1 March and to be print ( Bill 156 ) . political Parties , Elections and Referendums [ relevant document : Third Report of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission of 2023 , response to the draft Strategy and Policy Statement for the Electoral Commission , HC 1809 ; and Third Report of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission of 2022 , response to the draft Strategy and Policy Statement for the Electoral Commission , HC 967 ] I beg to move , that the draft Electoral Commission Strategy and Policy Statement , which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . it be a pleasure to be able to present this important strategy and policy statement for parliamentary consideration this afternoon . we may disagree on many point , but one point on which I hope we can agree be that there be plenty of issue in our political life to raise the blood pressure . let I say respectfully to the House that this strategy and policy statement be not one of they , for reason that I shall set out . the Electoral Commission Strategy and Policy Statement be lay before Parliament on 14 December 2023 for approval by resolution of both Houses within a 40 - day period in accordance with section 4c ( 9 ) ( a ) of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . let I start by assert clearly and unequivocally a concern which I know many right hon . and hon . member have have , and which I wish to nail from the outset . this statement , this strategy , in no way undermine or challenge the robust , legislatively underpin independence of the Electoral Commission . the commission play an important part in our national life . it have a key and important role , and the House and , I believe , the country recognise that . the statement give the Government no new tooth or power . how , if and when the commission face into the guidance be up to it and the scrutiny of Mr Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , whose role be exercise on behalf of the House . the commission , as be set out in the 2000 Act , only have a " duty to have regard " . we be not say — not least because we can not , and do not wish to — that the commission " will " or " must " . we create no new duty to report to the Government , only a duty for the Speaker ' s Committee to maintain its relation with the commission . the commission will continue to report only to Parliament , as it have do since its creation in 2000 . the statement — I want to make this very clear , because this be a twin approach of independence — do not politicise Mr Speaker ' s Committee or the Office of the Speaker in respect of its commission function . I have be listen to what the Minister be say with a bit of disbelief . if the commission will not have to take any notice of the statement or act on it , but need only have regard to it , what be it here for ? if " have regard to " mean " take seriously and do something about " , that apply both to the commission and to Mr Speaker ' s Committee , which have to oversee the commission and its work . do that not compromise the neutrality and independence of Mr Speaker as well as the Electoral Commission ? this be a very serious matter . if that be true , it would be a serious matter , but I must say to the hon . gentleman — for whom I have huge respect , and who chair the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee with much distinction — that I do not see it that way , and neither do the Government . however , he take I from my explanation of what the statement be not , to explain why we be approve it . that be the nub of this issue . we see — I see — the role of this Government and of any party that have the honour to be in government in the United Kingdom as that of a pro tem custodian of our democracy . that be why we have election law , and why I be the election Minister . democracy be , as we discuss last week in the Holocaust Memorial Day debate , a fragile flower under huge pressure . we believe that the statement be timely , not least because of the raft of change that have fly through and be deliver by statutory instrument from the recent Elections Act 2022 . we be also hugely cognisant of the threat to the robustness and resilience of our democracy present by overseas interference , fake news , deepfake , and artificial intelligence . the solemn role of pro tem custodian , and hold the flame of democracy while we serve in government , be important . rise — it be important to underpin , rather than undermine , the work of the commission by stand shoulder to shoulder with it in the important work that have be set before it , which I will come to when I have take the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . I be a member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , and we warn in our report about the threat to the independence of the commission from the Government ' s legislation regard the strategy statement . I can understand where the Minister be come from when he say that we be not use the expression " must " because that would be a direction , but the Government be repeatedly use the expression " should " . the question in my mind be : if the commission ignore this " should " , what happen ? there be an imply threat around the " should " . the right hon . Gentleman helpfully take I to the next part of my remark about " should " , " would " and " must " . let we just canter through , with some degree of attention and seriousness , the priority set out in the statement . in all seriousness — I hope the House know I well enough to know that when I use that phrase it be not just parrot a line ; I be serious in what I be about to say , because it be important — I really would question whether any hon . or right hon . member of this House , of any party , would take exception to anything in the statement . will the Minister answer my question ? if the right hon . Gentleman will be a little patient , he will have his question answer . he ask his question in his way and , in the word of Frank Sinatra , I shall answer it in mine . the first paragraph rehearse this key point : " the Electoral Commission be the independent regulatory body responsible for give guidance and support to Electoral Registration Officers and Returning officer in undertake electoral registration and conduct election and recall petition effectively and in accordance with the law . " anybody disagree with that ? no . paragraph 2 state : " the Chair of the Commission have the responsibility in law for act as the Chief Counting Officer at national referendum in the UK … and the staff of the Commission support the Chair in that role , when it be require , to work through local electoral authority to deliver such event . " the delivery of smooth and seamless referenda be not , I would suggest , a revolutionary power grab by his Majesty ' s Government . paragraph 3 state : " the government believe the Electoral Commission have an important role to play in maintain the integrity of our election and public confidence in that integrity . " I do not think that point will get the Division bell ring . in answer to the question from the Chair of the Select Committee , paragraph 3 continue : " the duty to have regard do not require the Commission to give less priority to , or to ignore , any of its other statutory duty . the Electoral Commissioners and the Commission ' s executive leadership will remain responsible for determine the Commission ' s strategy , priority , how it should discharge its duty ( include day - to - day operation ) and the allocation of its resource , as agree by the relevant parliament . it will be for the Commission to determine how to factor the statement into its decision - make process and corporate document such as the Five - Year Plan . " Paragraph 4 state : " one of the government ' s policy priority be ensure our democracy be secure , fair , modern and transparent . " one could easily transpose the word " government " for " Parliament " there . who will argue with ensure that our democracy be secure ? who will argue that our democracy should not be fair , modern , or transparent ? paragraph 4 go on to say that it be a priority to ensure " that those who be entitle to vote should always be able to exercise that right freely , securely and in an informed way ; … that fraud , intimidation and interference have no place in our democracy ; … that we be the steward of our share democratic heritage which we keep up to date for our age . " that be my custodian point again . paragraph 5 state : " one of the lead government objective be tackle electoral fraud " . anyone in this House in favour of electoral fraud ? I do not think so — and rightly so . paragraph 5 go on to state that the commission should " support continue effective delivery of voter identification by raise public awareness about the requirement to show an approve form of photographic identification before take part in UK parliamentary election , local election in England and election in Northern Ireland " . it have do that in Northern Ireland for the last 20 year or so . this issue be raise in close questioning from the Lords Constitution Committee just the other month . the important role of the Government , the commission and other agency in raise the profile and public awareness of voter identification be a matter that we discuss at some length . I be listen to the Minister read out a list of the thing that the commission be oblige to do by law anyway , so why he have to restate they in this paper , I do not know . the clear advice to the Committee and to the Speaker ' s Committee be that if certain item be identify as priority for the commission , other thing would per se be of less priority . for example , overseas voter registration be a priority , but the registration of voter in this country , where 8 million people be not on the register , be not list as a priority . this skew the work of the Electoral Commission , whether the Minister like it or not . the hon . Gentleman be obviously so busy try to find his rebuttal point that he do not listen to my answer to the first question . I set out clearly that the duty to " have regard " do not require the commission to give less priority to , or ignore , any of its other statutory duty . the electoral commissioner and the commission ' s executive leadership will remain responsible for determine the commission ' s strategy and priority , and how it should discharge its duty . the statement in no way undermine , countermand or double - guess any work of the commission . the paper go on to talk about tackle electoral fraud , which I know we would all wish to do . crucially , it also talk about the role of the commission in work with return officer and other to ensure the maximum opportunity for those with disability to take part in the ballot on the day and in polling station . nobody in this place , or the other place , would think that be not a noble aim . rise — and at the very mention of noble aim , I give way to the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington . I come back to the fact that this statement in effect set priority for the commission , and that have not only operational consequence but budgetary consequence . what be the consequence for the commission if , like I , it think the Government ' s statement be daft and completely ignore it ? I just do not see that happen , because the commission understand the importance of the statement . it be not a directional document ; it be an augment document . it say — because there be difficult thing face our democracy , as the right hon . Gentleman know — that the Government , not a party Government but Government as an entity , be in lockstep with the commission , in full support of the work that it do to preserve , protect and enhance our democracy . we feel that it be timely for the Secretary of State to provide a statement to augment and clarify matter that flow from the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 Act and subsequent statutory instrument . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be right to say that the commission be , in any case , do the thing set out in the statement , in whole or in part . it will be entirely up to the commission to set its priority from the list , and to give great or less attention to matter as need . for example , it could say , " well , that have already be do , and this be all in hand , but we really need to augment this matter here . " the voter authority certificate be a prime example . there be thing that we would all expect the commission to spend a certain amount of time on , in order to raise awareness of they . the Minister be do a commendable job , give that he have clearly inherit a piece of legislation from a different era that be part of a different agenda . he say that thing might need clarify , and then mention the voter authority certificate . can he give we example of other thing that need clarify ? what do he think the Electoral Commission be do that be wrong , and that need to be right by this statement ? nothing . if the hon . Gentleman be look for that , then he have completely misunderstood the purpose of the statement and the operational independence of the Electoral Commission , and apportion malign intention to the Government . I know that he want to say , " oh , this be mission creep because that be something else , and the Government be try to take over an independent body " — it be nothing of the sort . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know that other wish to speak . they can read the statement for themselves , but I hope that the example I have give indicate that the strategy and policy statement augment what the Electoral Commission do . my Department and I have good relation with the commission . we never seek to direct . we admire and respect the work that the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission do in discharge its duty . I have the honour of be a member of that Committee , as do the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ; the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) ; the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) ; and other — so it be not even weight in his Majesty ' s Government ' s favour . rise — this be a benign statement , support the commission in its work , address the change introduce post the Elections Act 2022 ( Commencement no . 7 ) Regulations 2023 . it be all part of our process to ensure that our electoral system be resilient , open , transparent , secure and have the maximum access to all who have the eligibility to cast a vote on whichever election day it may happen to be . how they vote be entirely up to they ; how the commission set its priority be entirely up to it . Mr Speaker and his Committee will hold the commission to account , not Parliament . there be no mandate in the statement that the commission have to provide a statement or report , annually or quarterly , to my Department or to the Secretary of State . the usual communication channel between the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission and the Electoral Commission remain . give the fragility of our democracy and the outside pressure face most western democracy today , I suggest to right hon . and hon . member that , in try to ascribe ill intention , machiavellian motivation and some sort of surreptitious purpose of undermine democracy to this benign statement of good will , they demean themselves and they demean and weaken democracy . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his introduction . I have a lot of respect for the Minister , but I struggle to listen to he . through gritted tooth , he try but fail desperately to justify why this statement be need . you can not flog a dead horse , and if something ain ' t break , it doesn ' t need to be fix . in 2000 , the previous Labour Government set up the Electoral Commission to act as a guardian of our democratic system . at the heart of that decision be the need for a central pillar of independence within our politic : a body that the public could trust that would not suffer interference , not just from the Government of the day but from future government of any shade ; that would not fear the consequence of take on major party when they break the rule ; and that could provide information about our system from a trust source , free of political interference . over 20 year later , the commission ' s independence have become a cornerstone of public trust in our democracy . let I put the strategy and policy statement into context . sadly , 14 year of Tory failure have leave many people feel powerless at the decline under this government . People have see their hard - earn money go to Tory friend and vip donor . People who follow the rule to protect the NHS see those who make the rule break they . I grow up not far from this place , on a council estate in Brixton , just a bus ride away . what annoy and anger I be see decision be make about my community by people who do not feel the ramification . the Government need to reflect on that — I hope the Minister will — and realise why trust in our politic be at a record low after so many scandal from this place . during this time , the independence of the Electoral Commission have act as a bedrock in our system against decline trust . while we have see recent drop in confidence and satisfaction in the system , a majority of people remain satisfied with the voting process . I agree with the Minister that there be always thing we can do to improve our democratic process , but this statement be set a political agenda for an independent watchdog . that be completely wrong , Minister , and you know it , and that be not just I say that . order . the hon . Lady be make a powerful speech , but I beg of she , would she please call the Minister " the Minister " , not " you " ? I be not blame the hon . Lady ; bad example have be set by senior member of the House call other member " you " or " Minister " . phrase such as " and you know it " be exactly why we do not have that way of do thing here , because that refer to the occupant of the Chair . I apologise for pull she up on this , because she be far from be the first person to get it wrong , but if we do not start to put it right , people will not understand the reason for the rule . thank you for highlight that , Madam Deputy Speaker . I totally agree with you ; I will refer to " the Minister " . it not only I say that there be issue with the statement ; the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , and even the Electoral Commission itself , have all highlight problem with the statement . these be not random body . in fact , they be so respected that the government themselves make it mandatory to consult they prior to bring the strategy and policy statement to the House . yet when all three raise the same concern , the Government simply railroad the statement through . Madam Deputy Speaker , you would expect a Government who disregard the powerful point make by these respected body to have a clear evidence base for their action . for the Minister to repeat what the Electoral Commission be do fantastically well be not the basis for the statement . in announce the statement , the Government say : " this guidance address the concern raise in Lord Eric Pickles ' independent review into electoral fraud , that the current system of oversight of the Electoral Commission be not fit for purpose . " give that , we would expect to find a robust justification for this statement in what the Minister outline . however , all we get on the system for oversight be three bury line on page 50 of that seven - year - old report — no detail , justification or evidence . wow . when the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee find it be " not aware that any of those concern remain current " from the relevant section of the Pickles report , and when so many respected body be say the statement be unnecessary , surely the Minister must see that the very basis for make the statement be simply not good enough . under this Government , trust in our politic and democratic institution be at an all - time low . we all need to work hard to restore that trust , give people belief that their voice matter and that decision be make with they , not to they — this be another example of decision be make to they . instead , the content of the statement completely undermine the Electoral Commission , represent a dangerous threat to the independence of a vital watchdog . mp from all party have condemn it and respected body have reject it , which be further proof that we need a new approach to a democracy that work for everyone . I urge hon . member to join we in vote against this dangerous politicisation of our independent election watchdog . I rise to make a short contribution to the debate . I welcome the work that have be do on the policy statement . have read the examination undertake by the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission and the report by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , I be glad the Government have respond to element of the critique . I also acknowledge the incredibly important role that Mr Speaker and his Committee play in the exist governance of the Electoral Commission — I want to make sure that be on the record , because they do their job well . for I , and I suspect other colleague who support the Elections Act 2022 — the source of today ' s instrument — there be a couple of additional argument that should be put alongside what the Minister have say . first , it be reasonable to have a strategy and policy statement . other regulator , such as Ofcom and Ofgem , have one . secondly , this debate be an opportunity for the whole Chamber to engage in the Electoral Commission ' s work . I rather wish that the Chamber be even full . be that as it may , this be rightly an opportunity for more right hon . and hon . member , other than those who sit on the Speaker ' s Committee or on the Select Committee , to take part . rise — I be happy to give way to the Chair of the Select Committee . do the hon . Lady not accept that compare this with other regulator be profoundly confusing ? they be different . regulate the water industry , with the Government quite rightly have a view about how our water purity , sewerage and so on should be control , be completely different from the Government interfere in how an independent Electoral Commission should carry out its operation . I be grateful to the hon . member for make that point . let I say in a respectful tone of voice that I be glad to see the depth of work that he have do on this , but I hope that he recognise that there be many of we on the conservative Benches who have also spend very many year focus on this area . my answer to he would be that there be partial similarity and there be partial difference . I think that he be wrong and that some of his colleague be unwise to throw quite so many accusation in such a tone today . in part , there be good reason why it be reasonable to set out in one place the Government ' s priority , which , as the statement set out , be adjacent and relevant to matter to do with the regulator . that be what today ' s document do . he be right that that be somewhat different from the more detailed work that be do by the regulator of water and electricity and so on . he be also right , of course , to point to the essential independence of the Electoral Commission . I be glad that he have do so , because it give I the opportunity to add my emphasis to that as well . there be nothing to be concern about from this statement in respect of the independence of the commission . we have hear those assurance from the Minister today . it be extremely important that he have set that out , and I be glad that he have do so , and I add my voice to the essential nature of that . but I want briefly to go back to the need for wide participation in the work of the Electoral Commission . we be able to spend , periodically , a few minute of question time on the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , and good work be do through that mechanism , but it be perhaps somewhat indirect . it be important for the whole Chamber to be able to look at the important issue that sit behind our constitution and our electoral system . I wish to move on to the content of the strategy and policy statement . I be work in particular from the point that we see in paragraph 19 , where it be emphasise that this regulator need to work together with other to discharge its duty . I want to emphasise that in the context of the demand be make on regulator this year with regard to artificial intelligence . member will be very well aware of that from the White Paper on regulate artificial intelligence , which be set out last year , and on which we be shortly to have an update from a different Department . the key point be this : it be the world ' s big election year . billion of citizen will be go to the ballot box , include here . these election will be the first to happen since the significant advance in AI . there be legitimate concern , anxiety and , indeed , evidence from our security service , for we to ask whether this technology will be use for fabrication , for manipulation and to affect the integrity of election . it go without say that the integrity of election matter , so that people ' s free choice achieve what they intend . the Government have ask regulator across their field to set out how they will work with artificial intelligence . clearly , the Electoral Commission be one of those regulator — and somewhat in the hotseat in this regard . it be my view that , in respect of the grand concern and anxiety , the Electoral Commission and connected enforcement agency could helpfully set out the preparation that they have do and give reassurance publicly about their readiness for election this year . with reference to the substance of today ' s statement , I ask the Minister what discussion he have have with the Electoral Commission on its work with other regulator , for example as per paragraph 19 and 20 of the statement , which talk about keep up to date with the reality of campaigning activity — I think that be a good tone to take there . I also ask the Minister in what way he expect to keep the statement itself and future iteration of the statement update in regard to technology and national security consideration where those might be relevant . I agree with the Minister that we here be steward of our democracy . I have be in his particular position before . I set out the approach that we ought always to strive for our election to be secure , fair , modern , accessible and transparent . I also agree that this be some of the most important work that we can do . none the less , I conclude by say gently that it be a legitimate function of Government to address themselves to these principle . that be what we need the Government and Parliament to do , because we be the custodian of law as well as of those principle . we do that with the Elections Act , and we do it prior to that with the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . we have also do it before then and since then , and we will continue to do so . it be a legitimate function of Government to enact change and update to electoral law when they be ask to do so , perhaps through a manifesto commitment in a democratic process . we do that through Parliament , so it be good , as I have say , that we have this wide opportunity for Parliament to be able to engage in the work of the Electoral Commission while crucially respect its design and independence , and I be glad that we be get that chance to do so today . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) , not least because she be the Minister who bring in the Elections Act 2022 , which have give rise to the motion today . the Minister on the Front Bench today , whom I hold in the high regard , be either the fifth or the sixth Minister — I have lose count — from the second Government Department who have have responsibility for manifestation of that legislation , whether it be the Bill proceeding or delegate legislation , since its First Reading in 2021 . that do not say much for the continuity of this Government or their commitment to get right the regulation of election — that perhaps be hardly a surprise . in fact , as I have allude to , much of the statement and much of what we be do today be a hangover from a slightly different era — a more muscular era — of the Conservative Government . that be a pity because , on the one hand , the Elections Act be a massive miss opportunity to consolidate and update electoral law properly for the next quarter of the 21st century , and on the other , it provide for significant regression in the access to , and potential fairness of , UK - wide election and certain other election in England and Wales . it remove proportionality from mayoral election and it impose the burden of photo - identification , particularly on poor and marginalised community , while at the same time extend the franchise to million of voter from overseas who have much less in the way of verification . and now , on the Floor of the House today , we have the cherry on top , the crown glory of this Government ' s intervention on our election process : the strategy and policy statement for the Electoral Commission . the commission be suppose to be the independent regulator of election across these island . it be a body that already have extremely clear function , which be set out on a statutory basis in the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . my first question to the Minister be this : what be this statement ? be it the law ? be it a statutory instrument ? be it delegate legislation ? it be tell that the Government have table a debate in the Chamber rather than pass this to a DL Committee , because I have a feeling that that be their original intention and that the Minister would have prefer that give the scrutiny and publicity he be now face , but here we be in the Chamber — and I be not entirely sure if a motion to approve a strategy and policy statement be delegate legislation . it seem that the commission be not legally bind to follow the strategy and policy , but only to " have regard " to it . as other have ask , what do that mean ? what happen if the commission find itself conflict between the statement and the statute ? can it be challenge in the court , and if so , by whom — by political party , by non - party campaigner , by the government themselves ? if it be not the law , how be it to be enforce — who decide if the commission be compliant or not ? I know the Minister , and you Madam Deputy Speaker , enjoy some deftly deploy Latin so perhaps this be a good time to ask the classical question , quis custodiet ipsos custode ? who watch the watcher — or , in this case , who commission the commissioner ? the answer to that question be that it be this House : it be Parliament that recommend commissioner for appointment by the monarch by mean of a Humble Address . it be Parliament that establish the commission in the first place through the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . the commission be accountable to the Speaker ' s Committee of Members of this House and through other mechanism to the Parliaments in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . we can therefore look at this statement and the motion before we and ask whether the Government be usurp the sovereignty of this House . the motion be unamendable , much as some of we would have like to amend it to mandate the Government to abandon the statement and repeal the relevant section of the Elections Act 2022 , and the statement be unamendable . the Government run a limited consultation — limit in time and limit in the number of consultee . where be the parliamentary sovereignty in that ? the only way in which the Scottish Government be able to express their view be in a letter from my good friend the Minister for Parliamentary Business , George Adam MSP , to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee of this House . that be probably a fair reflection of what this Government think be the place of Scotland ' s Parliament and Government in the modern United Kingdom — as a subsidiary of the housing Committee of the House of Commons . the statement do not have any effect on the Electoral Commission ' s function in the devolved nation , but by definition that increase divergence of practice , which be perhaps a surprise give the UK Government ' s determination to promote the broad shoulder of the Union . in his letter , Minister Adam make clear that , like almost every other stakeholder — and every other voice we have hear with the exception of those on the Government Benches who have take an interest in this matter — he consider the strategy and policy statement to be " an unwelcome and unnecessary interference with the independence of the Electoral Commission " . he make the extremely valid point that the statement ' s preamble say that it " do not suggest that the Commission should cease to carry out any of its other statutory duty " . he also rightly suggest : " this appear to raise the alarming prospect that such a suggestion might feature in future version of the SPS . " surely a change in the function of the commission would require a change in the statute . it would be helpful to hear the Minister ' s response to those point in get to the heart of what this statement be or be not suppose to achieve . if it be largely a restatement of the principle and function that the commission be already carry out , as the Minister seek to assure we in his most emollient tone , it seem to be surplus to requirement . perhaps the Minister could give we some example of what , as a result of the statement , he think the commission will do differently , or well . if the statement be simply change the emphasis on certain function , that go back to the point I raise in my intervention : why be that necessary ? what do the Minister think the commission be do wrong and why do the Government need to direct what be suppose to be an independent regulator ? the Elections Act 2022 be of course just one step in a pernicious series that this Government in their different incarnation have take to shield themselves from accountability and to reduce the openness and transparency of democracy across the UK . the Dissolution and calling of Parliament Act 2022 restore the prerogative of call an election to the Prime Minister alone — with all the consequence that be have for the Tory Back Benchers , the Press Gallery and the podcast studio of Westminster . the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2020 have restrict the right to protest . the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 and sundry other piece of Brexit legislation have ride roughshod over the Sewel convention and deliberately weaken and undermine the devolution settlement . perhaps it should be no surprise , therefore , that the Government have the independent regulator of election next in their sight . the conservative party be clearly not go to have an easy time at the next election , and it have clearly decide that therefore neither should anybody else — whether they be a candidate , a political party , a non - party campaigner , an electoral registration officer , a return officer or some other official , or indeed the Electoral Commission itself . the time to introduce election legislation reform be usually at the beginning of a Parliament , so that everyone involve have time to prepare and implement the change , not at the desperate fag - end of a session as part of what appear to be a scorch earth policy by the current Government . that do mean that there be some serious question for the official Opposition as well , and indeed for all of we write our manifesto . be the official opposition prepare to repeal or amend aspect of the Elections Act should they have the opportunity to do so at some point in future ? will they commit to get rid of this statement and certainly to not publish any of their own ? in the meantime , the Government need to hear from the House that this statement be at well unnecessary and at bad — which be more likely — an undermining of the independence of the Electoral Commission and indeed its accountability to this House rather than to the Government of the day . member on the Government Benches — wherever they be ; they be clearly not that interested in this motion — who believe far more fervently in parliamentary sovereignty than those of we who believe in popular sovereignty believe in that , should consider whether this be really the road they want to go down . if they do not want to go down this road , they should join those of we who respect the independence of the Electoral Commission , and who want to see fairness and transparency across election on these island , in vote against this statement — or whatever it be . rise — this debate have to finish at 4 . 13 pm . I ask colleague to be aware of that . there be five more speaker and a little brevity might help . I be speak today as Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and a member of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission . I also declare my interest as vice - president of the Local Government Association . when the Minister be give responsibility for local government finance , he no doubt think that he have get the hospital pass , which some minister get from time to time when they have a very challenging brief and a very difficult situation to face . then he realise that that hospital pass be come down the road straight away , and that he be go to have to try to justify this statement today . he do a good job of tell we what the current responsibility be of the Electoral Commission ; what he do not do be give we one example of something that the commission be not do right at present which they will be make to do right and well by this statement . what be the problem that need address , and if the motion pass in this House , what will be different tomorrow from today ? he do not give one example of that . that be why in the end both the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and the Speaker ' s Committee say that , at bad , this statement process compromise the independence of the Electoral Commission — the commission believe that as well — and at well , it be simply unnecessary and will contribute nothing whatsoever . I say to the Minister — and he have make this point — that democracy be of course very precious and it be the responsibility of all of we to protect it . the Electoral Commission be a very important part of that process in its oversight of election and the electoral process in this country , so it must be see to be independent — not just independent in practice but perceive to be independent . despite what the Minister say in the very detailed way he address the statement , the perception be that the Government be try to do something to influence the Electoral Commission . if they be not , what be the point of this ? if they have no intention of influence the Electoral Commission , we should just let it get on with the current situation and be accountable to Mr Speaker ' s Committee — that be surely where we ought to be . the Speaker ' s Committee and the levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have very helpful advice from senior and authoritative officer in this House who conclude in report to our Committees that the statement would constitute interference with the commission ' s operational independence . that be what we be advise ; we be advise that no cogent explanation have be put forward for why the statement be need . we have not hear one today either ; the Minister do the good job he could , but it be not a coherent and cogent explanation . far , we be tell that it be hard to see how this statement would help the commission in its work . the statement say that the commission should have regard to the way in which it operate , and give it certain priority . if among the commission ' s many responsibility some have to be a priority , other must be of a low priority — that be pretty self - evident as a conclusion . those other thing be less important . either that direct the commission to concentrate its resource on the thing that the Government think be important , or the commission will just ignore it and walk away ; either way , we do not know what we be here for . either we be here to interfere with the work of the commission , direct it and give it priority , or we be simply here to say to the commission , " there be some thing that the Government think be rather nice , but go away and ignore they because they don ' t really matter . that ' s not your statutory responsibility . " ultimately , the commission have statutory responsibility . we be advise on the Committee that some of the wording in the statement differ from the wording in law , so the commission could be catch between follow the law and follow the guidance . it would end up in court , with lawyer make a lot of money from the conflict — lawyer always make money where there be confusion in wording . the Government ought to be careful about what they be ask we to do . reference be make to other regulator . other regulator be essentially agent of Government : for example , Ofwat exist to carry out Government policy about how our water should be keep clean . the Electoral Commission be not an agent of Government . it be therefore very different from the other regulator — the agent — that the right hon . member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) and Ministers have refer to . it go back to the question that I put to the Minister . if other regulator fail to abide by the direction give by Government , they be remove . we have not hear what the consequence will be from the Government of not abide by the range of " should " within the statement . absolutely . no consequence be lay out for what will happen if the statement be not follow by the Electoral Commission . I wonder whether it be bad than that . regulator should be remove if they be find to be incompetent . give the state of the water industry with Ofwat and the Environment Agency , the Government probably ought to be step in and remove those regulator , but they be not . yes , perhaps the Government ought to pay more attention to those problem rather than to one that seem not to exist . the Minister have not tell we what problem the statement be intend to address . rise — I think the Minister be go to help we with that . I politely ask the Chair of the Select Committee where in my remark open the debate I talk about other regulatory body and try to rank they pari passu with the Electoral Commission . I will tell he where I do it : I do not . the Minister ' s right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North raise it , and she be the Minister who take the Bill through Parliament , so it be worth take seriously what she have to say . the Minister do not tell we what problem the statement be mean to address . it would be helpful if he do so . [ interruption . ] order . I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be just try to encourage the Minister to be helpful to we . obviously I be struggle in that regard . rise — be the Minister now go to be helpful ? I be try to be helpful . read Hansard . I have answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question three time . if he neither understand nor can hear the answer , that be not my fault . the Minister be clearly try to be helpful but not succeed . in the end , it come back to the point that the Electoral Commission ' s priority do not have to be the Government ' s priority , and the Government have no right to direct the commission in its work . again I ask : what problem be the motion design to address ? if the Minister can not articulate what the problem be and how the statement will change the behaviour of the Electoral Commission , frankly every member of this House be busy and have lot of thing to do . have we just waste 90 minute of our time , because in two year we will come back and find that today ' s motion have no impact ? I rather hope that that be the case , because the other scenario would be that the Government be interfere in the Electoral Commission ' s work , which be the bad of the two way of look at this . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . I associate myself with everything he say , which allow I to cut short my speech ; I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . when prepare for the debate , I take a little time to learn what the public think of the Electoral Commission . some research be carry out , and the word most frequently use by voter to describe the commission be " independent " , " important " and " professional " . at a time in our politic when fake news , misinformation and artificial intelligence be see as threat , and frankly be threat , to the security of our democracy — indeed , during Prime Minister ' s question early we have member spread fake news about vaccine and thing — should it not be a source of great pride for our country that the Electoral Commission be hold in such high regard by voter , who rely on it to safeguard the independence of election and of democracy itself ? fairness and accountability in electoral regulation depend on a strong and independent regulator , which be what the Electoral Commission be . it fulfil the vital role of oversee our election and regulate political finance in the UK . the commission ' s independence be establish in statute as a public body , independent of Government , and accountable to Parliament through the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , for which I be a spokesperson . I regularly attend the Chamber and answer question from colleague on both side of the House about the commission ' s work . in a healthy modern democracy , we should seek compromise on matter of democracy and the regulation of election , and not allow one party to set all the rule . one party be in Government today , but there will have to be an election , and should another party form the next government , they could author the next statement . we need to ensure that the structure that we agree as a House can withstand change of political party in government . political party that be not represent in the House today might one day be elect to this House , and they might not value democracy as much as I know all right hon . and hon . member here today do . the structure that we be be ask to approve today come straight out of a republican party playbook of politicise the Electoral Commission . those of we who see that as a threat do so because we look at what be go on in other country and other democracy . we also look at what have be go on here through the various iteration of conservative Governments over the past 14 year . the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) set out some of this already , but it be worth reiterate that this be not a first offence . this be a Government who repeal the fixed - term Parliaments Act 2011 to allow a Prime Minister to decide when the start whistle can be blow on a general election . this be a Government who change the way that electoral registration work , move from household registration to individual electoral registration , which mean that million of people fall off the electoral roll — at which point , the Government decide to draw the new electoral boundary use the number in that snapshot . by the way , those electoral boundary be for 600 mp , because at that point that number look advantageous to the conservative party . then we have the 2019 general election and the picture look a little different . it be then more electorally advantageous for the conservative party to have 650 member , so guess what happen ? yes , with absolutely no explanation , we go back to 650 member . the freedom to protest peacefully be important in a democracy , but it have be curtail under this Government . the Elections Act 2022 contain a plethora of thing that be damaging to the security and safety of our democracy . Voter ID have be widely discuss in this House , and it be true that it be easy for some voter to vote with photo ID than it be for other . a now ex - Minister slip up and accidentally say what be actually happen , which be that an attempt to gerrymander in the Government ' s favour have suddenly be find not to be in their favour . Voter ID be an attempt to make voting hard for those who be not plan to vote conservative and easy for those who be plan to vote Conservative , although it arguably backfire somewhat . the Government be also change the rule on who can vote , which be important , and this week we have see change that remove the 15 - year limit on overseas voter . we now have a situation in which a person who have live outside this country for 16 year can vote in UK general election , but a 16 - year - old who have live in the UK all their life can not vote in a UK general election . who get to vote be political . this be the politicisation of the Electoral Commission . the Elections Act change the electoral system for police and crime commissioner and Mayors to the party political advantage of the conservative party . the general election spending threshold for political party have be raise way above inflation , with absolutely no explanation other than that the conservative party feel confident that it have the money to spend . now we have a strategy and policy statement to direct the work of our independent commission . I will call it what it be . this be the politicisation of the independent Electoral Commission . all member of this House who believe in the independence of our Electoral Commission would do well to cast their vote against this motion today , because the consequence will be far - range . the point of the Minister ' s statement , which he have now read out several time , be that any future Government may set the direction and policy priority of the independent Electoral Commission . let we keep politic out of the Electoral Commission by oppose this motion today . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) , who make some excellent point . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as I too be a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I rise to make a very short speech oppose the Government ' s motion and the conservative party ' s effort to undermine the election watchdog . the last Labour Government set up the Electoral Commission to protect Britain ' s democracy through the independent regulation of free and fair election . the commission ' s independence from Government of any shade must be crystal clear for voter and campaigner to see . as a member of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission and , for the Minister ' s benefit , the Member of Parliament for Luton South , I have already share my opposition to the Government ' s draft strategy and policy statement on the Electoral Commission . at a time when trust in our politic be low , Ministers use this statement to set a political agenda for the Electoral Commission be a dangerous act that undermine its independence . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) put that well , too . even on its own merit , the statement fail to explain why it be require in the first place , and it provide no further support for scrutiny of the commission ' s work . this beg the question : what be the point ? as we know , there be cross - party agreement that the commission ' s independence be vital to the health of our democracy , and both the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and the Speaker ' s Committee have conclude that no statement be necessary . the Electoral Commission have rightly point out that the repeal of the Government ' s power to designate a statement would improve confidence and trust in our electoral system . that beg another question : why do the Government introduce the strategy and policy statement power in the Elections Act ? perhaps if we put it in the context of a very unpopular , decline conservative party that be out of idea , it could be suggest that it be try to assert an unfair influence on the rule of engagement at the next general election . alongside the strategy and policy statement power , the Elections Act also introduce repressive voter ID requirement — a solution to a non - existent problem — yet we be still wait to see any action on , or prioritisation of , the real issue face our democracy , such as disinformation and AI . there be no concerted plan to get under - represent group and people turn 18 on to the electoral register . will the Minister explain why ? as my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Fleetwood put it so well , we be see the alarming trend emerge of a Government tighten their grip on the delicate functioning of democracy . it seem that , with this statement , the conservative party be purposefully seek to undermine public trust in order to serve its own interest . perhaps the Minister can try again to convince we otherwise . be it arrogance or weakness that be inform these decision ? in any event , the public be under no illusion and can see this for what it be . labour will continue to oppose all reckless act that threaten to undermine our democracy , and Labour will fight for every vote in every part of the country . the only people who will be decide Britain ' s future be the british public . I should say from the off that I would not allege that the Government want to achieve something untoward by the statement . I be not for a moment suggest that they be seek somehow to introduce this guidance for the Electoral Commission to gain a political advantage for the conservative party . however , perception matter . the Minister say that the statement be about resilient , open , transparent , secure , modern and fair democracy , but many of our constituent will ask , " what be wrong with the current system ? " the fact be that nothing be wrong with the current system of the Electoral Commission report to the House , not to the Government . I be surprised to have receive considerable correspondence from constituent on this subject , which I have think would be of little interest to people in Devon . let I give the House an example of that correspondence : " as your constituent , I be urge you to please consider vote against the draft Electoral Commission and Policy statement on Wednesday . no Government or political party should be able to have any say in the commission ' s strategy or policy . " the Electoral Commission exist to run election . it seem obvious to I and my liberal Democrat colleague that the Electoral Commission need not only to be impartial , but to be see to be impartial . the concern express by my constituent , and feel by my party , have also be highlight by two Committees of this House : the cross - party Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , which be so ably chair , and the Speaker ' s Committee , which have publish its third report on the Electoral Commission of 2023 . those Committees have make it plain that we do not need this additional Government guidance to the Electoral Commission . if that be not enough , the commission itself say that the Government have a strategy and policy statement be inconsistent with the independent role of the Electoral Commission . that be why I and my liberal Democrat colleague will vote against the statement . the Minister be well than this motion — let we all agree on that . like the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , I think it be a hangover from the Boris Johnson day , when the Electoral Commission upset he and he want to influence it . the Minister can correct I if I be wrong . the Government claim that this strategy will enhance the parliamentary accountability of the Electoral Commission and increase public confidence in its work , but as everybody have state today , it will do the complete opposite . this strategy and policy statement be little more than an attempt by the Government to undermine the independence of the Electoral Commission and to stamp their own agenda on the regulation of our democracy . this be a fight for our democracy . we in this House need to take back control — that be important . avoid transparency and accountability seem to be the hallmark of the Government . do not just take my word for it ; the Electoral Commission itself write to mps this week stress that the principle of independence be crucial to maintain confidence in our electoral system . it warn member : " the introduction of a mechanism such as a strategy and policy statement — by which a government can guide an electoral commission ' s work — be inconsistent with this independent role . " if the commission be say that , and the Speaker ' s Committee be say it , why be the Minister try to convince we otherwise ? it really do not make any sense . as we have hear many time , this be not the first time that the Government have attempt to rig our democracy . they force through their voter ID system , which threaten to disenfranchise the most vulnerable in society . remember that , as my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) mention , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) let it slip that that be a deliberate attempt to manipulate electoral outcome in favour of the Conservative party , and then go , " Whoops ! " because he have make a mistake and say the quiet bit out loud . it be not a shock that the Government be once again attempt to influence an independent body that oversee our election , but it should shock we all . this draft strategy and policy statement set out the Government ' s strategic and policy priority for the Electoral Commission . it also contain " guidance to which the Commission must have regard in the discharge of its function . " that place on the commission a concern legal duty to consider first and foremost the Government ' s priority when fulfil its duty . if it do that , it can not be independent , and the whole point be that it be suppose to be independent . it be simply unacceptable for the Government to direct the commission on how it should carry out its function . if a foreign Government be wield that much power over their election , there would be call to send in independent adviser to ensure that their election be be hold democratically — that be how bad this be . when people ask , " do we have corruption in our government ? " , I say , " yes , we do , and this be an example of that . " the Government keep focus on the prevention and detection of voter fraud , yet there be little evidence that voter fraud be widespread . in fact , it be so rare that there be only nine conviction — order . the hon . Lady talk about corruption in Government . I want she to withdraw that ; she need to rephrase what she say . she do know that — she be very experienced — so I ask she to say at this point that she withdraw any allegation of corruption within Government . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I withdraw the statement that the Government be corrupt , or that there be corruption in the government — I do not know for sure , but I withdraw that statement . there be , however , issue that need tackle , and the motion do not achieve that . there be rise consideration , such as the threat of generative AI , the use of deepfake , the spread of disinformation and the scraping of people ' s datum . none of that have be tackle today — I wonder why , although accord to the fact check organisation First Draft , 88 % of the conservative party ' s most share online advert in the final day of the 2019 general election campaign be find to have contain misleading information . when the Minister get to his foot , I hope that he will change his mind , because he be respect across the House and this motion be go to damage his reputation . as I have say , I urge the House to take back control and reject the motion . first , I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution this afternoon . to address the last part of the speech make by the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , I have be very grateful to colleague on the Opposition Benches who have say some rather nice and kind word about I personally . I will not press to a division the question of whether I deserve those nice and kind word — I be not sure how my side of the House would vote . I say this in all seriousness : I hope the House know I well enough to know that if I think the intention that sit behind this statement , the Elections Act , or any of the statutory instrument that have flow from that Act be what hon . member have assert they be , I would have tender my resignation to the Prime Minister . as a democrat — as somebody who have stand in election , who have lose and win election , and who have serve in this place , if only for eight and a half year — I can say that there be nothing malign or mission - creep in anything that we be discuss today . I be not expect that sentiment to change the vote of Opposition Members , but I say it sincerely . a number of member have ask where the statement come from . its genesis be , of course , to be find in section 4A to 4e of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 , insert by the Elections Act 2022 — that be where it come from . I will try to address some of the comment that have be make . my shadow , the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , say that there be a political agenda ; there be not . we pay full regard to the submission of consultees , and we take a different view from they . that be perfectly fine . it do not undermine the system , nor be it a dangerous politicisation of the commission . I believe my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) , a distinguished former election Minister , be right when she refer to this as a reasonable vehicle . she ask about my discussion with the commission . I have have a very useful meeting with its senior team , at which we discuss a range of issue and how we can work together to support and buttress our democracy . those conversation will continue . the statement be iterative and organic , and it can of course be refresh to reflect issue and challenge as they arise in the field of AI , overseas involvement and so on . the House will notice that I use the word " as " — as they arise — not " if " . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) — I call he an hon . friend because he be a friend — ask : where be the parliamentary sovereignty ? when the Division bell ring , that be the exercise of Parliament ' s sovereignty , and he will vote accordingly . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , in an rather confusing way , say he think the statement be wrong because it do not mandate the commission or tell it what to do , and then go on in almost the same breath to say how frightful it would be if the statement could do that . I be afraid the hon . Gentleman be prove to be , on this issue and on this issue alone , a little bit of a pushmi - pullyu , because the independence of the commission be absolutely safe and sacrosanct . let I read back into the record from the statement that the " duty to have regard do not require the Commission to give less priority to , or to ignore , any of its other statutory duty . the Electoral Commissioners and the Commission ' s executive leadership will remain responsible for determine the Commission ' s strategy , priority , how it should discharge its duty " , and so on and so forth , within its five - year plan . the commission will not be report to I , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , no . 10 or the Cabinet Office . it will continue to report to Parliament through Mr Speaker ' s Committee , use the function it have . will the Minister give way ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , but I will not , because the House have a lot of business today . let I address the point that have be raise by other , because I want to give due attention to the point they have make . the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) really should have a word with her own Front Benchers about overseas voter . let I quote from her hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall on the statutory instrument we take upstairs on Wednesday 6 December 2023 , when , from the Labour Front Bench , she tell the Committee : " we do not oppose the principle of overseas voting and give citizen who still have a strong connection to the UK a voice in our election , and that include people who still have a strong connection to our local service and community " . — [ Official Report , Eighth Delegated Legislation Committee , 6 December 2023 ; c . 6 . ] so the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood be entirely out of step with her hon . friend on the Front Bench . I thank the Minister for give way this time . I wish to object in that the Minister be very much misportraye the point I make in my remark . the point I make be that it be a political decision to decide who get to vote , and I be compare 16 - year - old in the UK with someone who have live outside the UK for 16 year . that be the point I raise , and I do not think it be at all inconsistent with those on my own party ' s Front Bench . I hear the hon . Lady very clearly say that in principle she be oppose to overseas voter . if I misheard she , then I apologise , but that be certainly the thrust of the remark she make . the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) describe the statement as a political agenda . be improve disabled access have a political agenda ? if so , or if that be the charge , I be go to plead guilty . be crack down on electoral fraud ? if that be the charge , clap I in iron . be ensure that the rule of registration and the importance of voter ID be promote ? if so , take I off to the Tower . I plead guilty as charge . the Minister rather misportraye what I just say . I say that this statement either seek to change how the Electoral Commission operate , in which case it be interference with an independent body , or do not seek to do that , in which case , what be the point of it ? the point , as I have consistently say , be to augment and buttress the work of the commission , and to give some reference tool in Parliament ' s assessment . I also want to take issue with the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood — again , I hope I hear she correctly — who pray in aid the fix - term Parliaments Act 2011 , as if it be an ancient symbol of our democratic function that we have repeal . it sit for five year as a way of give confidence to the market that a coalition of two party could deliver the clean - up strategy for what her party have leave behind in 2010 . so its repeal be not a dismantling of some great , permanent piece of our democratic architecture . the hon . member for Brent Central seem to refer to this as a vendetta against the commission . let I just invite she — [ interruption . ] she refer to it as a vendetta — I write the word down . the record will say that she think that Mr Johnson , as Prime Minister , be wage a vendetta against the commission because the commission have say something with which he disagree ; that be the word the hon . Lady use and I will play it back to she advisedly . I take a contemporaneous note of the word as she use it . let I just invite she to consider that if we wish to wage a war against the commission , we could neuter it , fetter it , force it to report to we and we could abolish it , but we haven ' t and we win ' t . why win ' t we , why aren ' t we ? it be because we know that the commission be important , we respect its work , and we honour , cherish and guard its independence . we believe that this statement and the previous legislation that this House have put through will augment the accountability of the commission to Parliament and , in so do , serve this as its sole and only purpose : to build on Parliament ' s and the public ' s confidence in its work . the commission be and be independent , and it will continue to be independent . I commend this motion to the House . question put . Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 273 , Noes 190 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Electoral Commission Strategy and Policy Statement , which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . Social Security I beg to move , that the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . the draft order will increase relevant state pension rate by 8 . 5 % , in line with the growth in average earning in the year to July 2023 . it will also increase most other benefit rate by 6 . 7 % , in line with the rise in the consumer price index in the year to September 2023 . subject to parliamentary approval , the change will take effect from 8 April and will apply for the tax year 2024 - 25 . [ interruption . ] order . may I ask those not participate in the debate to leave quietly ? it be difficult to hear the Minister . the Government ' s commitment — order . Minister , I have just be ask to clarify that you be move motion 3 on social security . yes , that be the one I be talk about . thank you for clarify that . for the information of the House , this order cover state pension . motion 4 cover the guarantee minimum pension , which be a sub - element of the pension issue . as I will explain , the different element — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can I clarify whether we be take motion 3 on social security and motion 4 in one debate , or will we scrutinise the order separately ? it would be helpful for the House to have clarity on exactly what be happen . we be debate motion 3 on social security . we will then debate motion 4 on pension . two debate or one debate ? two separate debate . indeed , a few day ago I be ask those question about whether to take the motion separately or together . they be be take separately . I be very relieved that we be get a proper uprating this year , but the current headline rate of benefit be the low it have be in real term for 40 year . why have Ministers set benefit at a level so much low in real term than be choose by Margaret Thatcher , Peter Lilley , John Major or Norman Fowler ? why be it so much low ? there be always a lively debate about the adequacy of the overall benefit system . I think Beveridge have the debate under the Labour Government in 1945 on how to understand the concept of adequacy within the benefit system . what we be do be ensure that the purchase power of benefit be maintain and that we be adhere to the triple lock . the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention allow I to restate , I think for the fifth time , the Government ' s commitment to the triple lock , mean that the basic and state pension will be uprate by the high of growth in earning or in price , or by 2 . 5 % . this year that will mean an 8 . 5 % rise from 2024 - 25 , take the basic state pension from £ 156 . 20 to £ 169 . 50 a week , and the full rate of the new state pension from £ 203 . 85 to £ 221 . 20 a week . additional state pension , such as the state earning - relate pension scheme and protect payment of the new state pension , will rise by 6 . 7 % . the Government be commit to support pensioner on the low income , and accordingly the safety net provide by the pension credit standard minimum guarantee will increase by 8 . 5 % . for single pensioner it will increase by £ 201 . 05 to £ 218 . 15 , and for couple it will increase from £ 306 . 85 to £ 332 . 95 per week . when it come to support for those in the labour market , such as universal credit and the means - test benefit it replace , there be always a need to take into account work incentive as well as financial support for those in low - pay work , who be look for work or who be unable to work . the Government announce a range of employment and conditionality measure at the autumn statement to maintain and improve work incentive . however , in strike a balance it be also right to increase the rate of those benefit by 6 . 7 % , in line with the increase in CPI in the year to September 2023 . that 6 . 7 % increase mean that universal credit will retain its purchasing power in the broad context of the Prime Minister ' s deliver commitment to halve the rate of inflation . the Government remain mindful of work incentive in the benefit system , and accordingly this order also increase the universal credit work allowance by 6 . 7 % . they will increase from £ 379 to £ 404 per month for those also receive support with housing cost , and from £ 631 to £ 673 per month for those not receive support with housing cost . that 6 . 7 % increase will also apply to the rate for contributory jobseeker ' s allowance , contributory employment and support allowance , additional need disability benefit such as the personal independence payment , carer ' s allowance and statutory payment such as statutory maternity pay , statutory paternity pay and statutory sick pay . the draft order , if Parliament approve it , commit the Government to increase expenditure of £ 19 billion in 2024 - 25 . we believe it be right to make such a commitment because it maintain the triple lock , which benefit both pensioner already in receipt of the basic and new state pension and young people who be build up future entitlement as a foundation for private saving . it raise the level of the safety net in pension credit beyond the increase in price and be part of a package of support for those in the labour market , which protect the value of benefit at a time of high , if fall , inflation while maintain and increase work incentive . the draft order maintain the purchase power of benefit to help with additional cost arise from disability . it also provide protection against inflation for people who be currently unable to participate in the labour market , such as full - time carer , who provide such an essential service to those they care for . on that basis , I commend this order to the House . I thank the Minister for clarify the way we be take these order today . we welcome the social security uprating , because we want to see social security keep pace with price , particularly at a time of spike inflation and economic instability . however , it be worth point out that before 2010 , uprating in the manner we be do it today be the norm for both Labour and conservative Governments , but the past decade and a half have see a change , and a variable approach to uprating from this Government . the debate about uprating have become almost farcical . year by year there be speculation — I presume from some part of Government — that the uprating that be standard year in , year out under previous government may or may not happen . that speculation do not come out of thin air . it cause immense amount of distress and worry for people . it be almost as though there have to be a campaign for the status quo , which be not acceptable . I wonder why we be in what seem to be a policy roundabout where every time we have this debate about uprating , only for the Government to do it . that be a problematic way to do what be a normal function of social security : to keep pace with the cost of living . we have to be honest about the reality of the situation we face . we have have universal credit for a decade or more , and I have be in this House long enough to have hear promise after promise that it would radically improve people ' s work incentive , and that people ' s position in life would be make much well by universal credit reform . the DWP have many talented civil servant , who I be sure have work hard to try to make the customer service element function well , but we have to look at reality : 400 , 000 more child be now in poverty than when Labour leave office in 2010 . that be not acceptable to I . Most people in poverty today be in work , so the idea that we hear again and again in this Chamber , that the good route out of poverty be work , be simply not true . two third of child in poverty live in a house where someone go out to work . I would like the Government to recognise that fact . we have have a decade and a half of so - call reform , and all we have do be get back to the situation where child be grow up deal with the stress of not have enough money in the family home to give they a proper childhood . that be not acceptable . we see the consequence of a decade and a half of Tory rule all around we , whether the food bank parcel in the school office , the nurse who do a 12 - hour shift but can not make end meet or , in the bad case , the man curl up in a sleep bag in Westminster tube station as we leave this House . we see the consequence of Conservative Government all around we . Labour have a plan to get people a well life , able to make end meet and with a good start for their child . we will ensure that there be a breakfast club in every primary school . we will help people have access to cheap energy and an insulated home , to deal with the spike in cost that people have face in recent year . we will reform universal credit , jobcentre and employment support to ensure that people get a well job with well pay , to help they live their life properly and save money for the Treasury . we will have a child poverty strategy that will overhaul universal credit . on social security , I simply say this : we need an end to the uprating roundabout . we be simply ask for consistency of approach so that , as in previous decade under government of all kind , we have the proper uprating of social security without the constant speculation from wherever it be in the Conservative Government that , somehow , ordinary work people must pay the price of the Government ' s economic chaos . that be not fair . let we end the chaos and have proper , normal uprating in the usual way . I welcome the rise in benefit and the state pension . it would have be unthinkable not to raise benefit by inflation and equally unthinkable not to increase the state pension in line with the triple lock . the Government have do the right thing — these be the right decision — and I will happily support these order in the unlikely event of a Division . I agree with the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) , that this be not the most exciting piece of parliamentary theatre , even though we be spend ten of billion through these order . the House be empty , these instrument go through on the nod , we can not amend they , and the whole process create a load of uncertainty for people who have to live on these benefit . I agree that , if we be go to find the money to put these benefit up — quite rightly by the two high amount in my 14 year in this place and probably go back a lot far — let we just change the process and have a default increase by CPI and in line with the triple lock so that we do not have to go through all this uncertainty . in what scenario now be we not go to increase benefit and the state pension by CPI or the triple lock ? if any future Government want to do something different , they could just bring in a Bill , as George Osborne do in the early year of the coalition . the House would be require to give its assent to that change , but we would not have to go through the uncertainty and the annual campaign to get to where we all think we be go to get to anyway , which do not help anybody . it would spare the Minister this afternoon ' s excitement and the confusion of what be in which of these order , which he might appreciate . I will leave that one for the Minister and see whether he be remotely tempt by it . with the crazy process we currently have , we have come to the right answer , but I still do not really believe that we be in a sensible position . we have to use September ' s inflation for an April increase in benefit , and we have to have an uprating order quite a while after the Chancellor have announce it in the Budget . the Work and Pensions Committee recommend that the Government bring these order before the House early than February , so I commend the government — we be still in January . I suppose that be positive progress , although I do not quite know why we could not have do this in November , to get that certainty . I hope , as the year go by , one year we will get some good news , and the Minister will say , " we have so many people on universal credit who we know we can uprate far more quickly , but actually we can use a much late inflation number because the amount of manual processing we have to do for the old benefit be much less of a work demand than it use to be . " we could then move to use December ' s inflation figure to bring the benefit increase much near the actual cost of live and avoid the horrible situation we have currently where we be effectively six month behind , and , in the meantime , there have be a huge spike and people can not afford to pay their bill . perhaps the Minister could update the House on whether we be any nearer the prospect of a slightly more sensible process where we be not use out - of - date information to give people a rise in benefit that be already six month old , which expose a load of risk in that situation . there be also a lot of noise about the triple lock be unsustainable and suggestion that we will have to get rid of it because we can not afford to give pensioner that level of increase . I can not think of any justification for ever give people who be reliant on a state pension and who have no possibility of go back to work an increase of less than inflation ; it would be an intolerable situation to put people in . I think we have establish over many long and painful year that give pensioner less than earning be not a very attractive position . we have that for a while , before the coalition Government quite rightly reverse it as one of the first thing we do when we come to power 14 year ago . I do not know why we have to have speculation around the idea of take away the link to inflation or earning — it be utterly impossible . I suppose we all wish that the 2 . 5 % be a relevant consideration for we , but it look like it might be a few year before we have to worry about that part of the triple lock kicking in . the problem be that the rise in earning and the rise of inflation have get out of step and be in two different financial year . we be therefore effectively give that increase twice , because we give it on inflation in year one , and then , when pay rise catch up in year two , we end up give it again , and we have accidentally give a much high amount over a period than either inflation or earning . if that be what risk the long - term future of the triple lock , do the Minister think that a rolling two - year or three - year average would fix that ? if that be the price of make the triple lock safe in the long term , I would pay it . I would not choose it , but if that stop the uncertainty over the whole thing be affordable , it would be well . perhaps the Minister could help we with a well process for future year . I fully support these order and I will happily vote for they in the unlikely event that we get to a vote . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) , a fellow member of the Work and Pensions Committee . I stand here with a somewhat renew sense of frustration follow the release of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s " UK Poverty 2024 " report , which I will refer to throughout the course of my contribution . I find myself again speak in this Parliament against a backdrop of a truly dire situation characterise by destitution . I wonder what more can be say or do to make the british Government realise the true extent of the hardship they have inflict on people across these island . the SNP will not oppose the order for 2024 - 25 , but to keep it plain and simple : the damage have already be do . no amount of uprating will address the long - term consequence of entrenched destitution inflict on household as a result of the British Government , who , I would argue , have be asleep at the wheel now for 14 year . although the Government ' s announcement to uprate social security benefit mean that shortfall should not increase any far this year , the order still fail to undo any of the cumulative impact of year of cut to social security that household across these island have endure . while the british Government have be asleep at the wheel , people across the country have be keep awake at night due to the sheer amount of stress and anxiety , wonder how they will feed themselves and their family , and how they can afford — they often can not afford they — the essential . we be face with an horrendous picture , but that be the stark reality of live with this Westminster Government . young child , school child , pensioner , young adult , those in and out of work — no one be leave unscathed when they have the misfortune of interact with the UK ' s social security system . as the Minister come back to the Dispatch Box , I be sure full of civil service - inspire line that do not meet the reality outside whitehall , we be face with a cold hard truth from which we can not escape : people be suffer , and will only continue to suffer as long as this government refuse to fix the know policy issue , on which I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) will elaborate . we be debate what be suppose to be an adequate payment for social security . the Government ' s case be completely weaken , be it not , by the ridiculous system of loan and reduction ? my hon . friend ' s constituent in Glasgow East and mine in Glasgow South West be , on average , have their universal credit payment deduct by £ 60 a month because of this ridiculous system . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be an assiduous questioner of the Government through work and Pensions question on the issue of debt and deduction . he be right to cite the figure in Glasgow , which be well know — local citizen advice bureaux all over our constituency refer to they — but of course , we be not the only member whose constituent be impact by the debt and deduction policy of this Government , which be often find want . if the Minister could touch on debt and deduction when he sum up , that would be helpful . in a Westminster Hall debate I hold three week ago on the cost of living crisis , I compare the UK ' s social security system , which use to be hail as a safety net for those who need it , to something that now resemble nothing more than a frayed rope , unable to bear the weight of the individual who rely on it as a lifeline . after read the new report and statistic produce by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , I have never be more assured in my assessment of the state of the social security policy enforce by this Westminster Government . the JRF report outline that more than one in five people in the UK be in poverty in 2021 - 22 . that is 14 . 4 million people , 4 . 2 million of whom be child and 2 . 1 million be pensioner . just as the statistic from Save the Children and Age Scotland show — I will outline they shortly — the JRF report have to be a wake - up call for this Government , and indeed the Government who may follow , if we be to make any tangible change to the broken system that lie before we . in its report , the graph that illustrate the percentage of people in poverty be break down into the follow category : in poverty , but not in deep poverty ; in deep poverty , but not in very deep poverty ; and , in very deep poverty . I must be honest : I find it completely surreal that we have reach a point at which statistical analysis have to be break down into such category to illustrate the situation that people be have to endure . it be utterly shameful that such category even have to exist in one of the rich country on the planet . I understand that to member who be present today I seem frustrated , but that be because I be . the statistic in this report be not just number ; they be the very reality of people in the community that I represent , such as Parkhead and Shettleston , and those , such as Mosspark or Cardonald , that be represent by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West . they be truly harrowing finding . I want to say something about universal credit , which be also raise by the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) . this policy be fail the very people whom it be , in theory , suppose to support : rather than support they , it drive destitution and food bank usage . it have be report that 68 % of people refer to a Trussell Trust food bank in Scotland who be in receipt of universal credit have money automatically deduct from their payment to repay debt , such as a DWP advance — a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West . moreover , food bank in the Trussell Trust network distribute about 3 million emergency food parcel across the UK in 2022 - 23 , more than 1 million of which be for child . the Government also refuse to scrap abhorrent policy such as the two - child cap and the associated rape clause . the DWP ' s own figure show that in April last year , 1 . 5 million child be affect by the two - child limit — and I say that in the context of those 1 million child who be in receipt of food parcel . this be in addition to datum from Save the Children , which find that 60 % of household affect by the two - child cap include at least one adult in pay employment . no doubt the Minister will stand up and say that the two - child cap be about make sure that people get into work , but the fact be that it have an impact on people who be already in work . punitive sanction , deduction , the two - child limit and the five - week wait be all define characteristic that be inherent in this British Government ' s social security system — policy that have cause , and continue to cause , hardship to so many . although I could stand here and generate endless amount of research and statistic for the Minister , my plea be simple . social security do not have to be do this way : we do not have to continue down this road of sanction , deduction , rape clause and five - week wait . it be an undeniable fact that the Scottish Government can not make any tangible change to these policy while 85 % of welfare expenditure and income - relate benefit remain reserved to the Government here in Westminster . for every step forward that the Scottish Government try to make , Westminster drag we back two . the Scottish Government desperately need the opportunity to create a system , one design to tackle poverty actively and empower those who interact with the system , without one hand be tie behind their back . when we have have the power to do so , we have introduce game - change policy , such as the scottish child payment . analysis show that the scottish child payment could lift up to 50 , 000 child out of relative poverty in 2023 - 24 , which be because the Scottish Government choose to prioritise that . child poverty rate in Scotland sit at 24 % , which be still far too high , but they should be see in the context of the 31 % rate in England and the 28 % rate in Wales . that be likely to be due , at least in part , to the scottish child payment . fundamentally , it be a political choice to lift child out of poverty . if this Westminster Government be unwilling to make that choice , I simply ask they to hand over the rein of power to the Scottish Government , who be more than willing , and certainly ready , to implement a system that will allow people to thrive rather than be punish for their circumstance . until that happen , the Scottish Government be leave fight an uphill battle against a Westminster social security system that be break beyond repair . again , I be leave wonder how different thing might be if Scotland be able to take all the legislative and fiscal responsibility for these issue through the normal power of independence . whether it be the british Government ' s cruel sanction regime or their refusal to fix know policy failure that only push people far into hardship , we be see what will sadly be one of the define legacy of this Tory Government . as a result , poverty no long just exist within our society . it be deepen , it be ingrain , and it be cause insurmountable pain to people right across these island . as we be face with the reality of more food parcel than ever be deliver through the Trussell Trust network and shockingly high level of child poverty , the only conclusion I can draw be that these be all sign of a Government , and indeed a Union , that the people in Scotland must escape if they be to have any hope of a fair and prosperous future . I start by welcome the uprating order , include the uprating of the local housing allowance , which have be freeze for over 10 year now . that be a significant move forward , but as my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) say , we need to recognise the context in which this apparently positive uprating be be bring in . we need to look at what have happen since 2010 , particularly the various cut and freeze to working - age support over the past 14 year . I be go through some figure just before the debate start , and I note that between 2010 and 2012 , the uprating be about 1 . 5 % ; between 2012 and 2016 , it be 1 % a year , and between 2016 and 2020 it be zero . of course , the average annual CPI increase for each of those year be about 3 % . that be the context . there have be a steady and consistent erosion in the value of social security , and this have affect universal credit , jobseeker ' s allowance , employment and support allowance , income support , housing benefit , child tax credit , work tax credit and child benefit . the Resolution Foundation estimate at the time that this be the equivalent of a cut of over £ 20 billion a year . that be £ 20 billion a year take out of the support for working - age people . what be not well understand be that these be predominantly people in low - pay work ; yes , a small proportion of people be on unemployment support or in long - term unemployment , but they be a tiny fraction of the population . this be predominantly support for people in low - pay work . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) , a fellow member of the Select Committee , mention the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s " UK Poverty 2024 " report . I invite people to read it , and if they can not read the whole document , they should read the summary . it be absolutely shocking . the headline be that level of relative poverty now be equivalent to those we have before the pandemic . the Government prefer to talk about absolute poverty because that be to their advantage , but in term of relative poverty , we be back to where we be before the pandemic . so that everyone understand , what happen during the pandemic — who be affect , where be affect — reflect that poverty ; those inequality drive who be go to get ill . they drive what happen during the pandemic , and now we be back there , not have learn very much . there be 14 . 5 million people live in relative poverty , of whom 6 million be in deep poverty . deep poverty describe people who be live on less than 40 % of median income . my fellow Select Committee member mention another level below that : very deep poverty . that be even bad poverty . the average income of somebody in very deep poverty be 59 % below what we recognise as the relative poverty level . how on earth can we think that be acceptable in this country ? we hear last year about the increase in destitution , which be another category altogether . there be deep poverty , very deep poverty and — the bad of the bad — destitution . the number of people in destitution have double , mean there be 3 . 8 million people who can not afford to meet their basic physical need to stay warm , dry and clean , and to feed themselves . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South talk about the child in the family who be affect . for every 1 % increase in child poverty , 5 . 8 extra child out of 100 , 000 live birth — I apologise for the fraction — will not reach their first birthday . that be the consequence of poverty . for those who survive , poverty affect every aspect of their development , include how their brain be wire , how they will develop and their attainment at school . it be a disgrace that we have such level of poverty in this country . we have this debate every year and it become increasingly distressing . for I , one of the most distressing statistic this year be the european comparison of growth rate : the height of child in this country be now fall behind the height of child in Europe . what do that mean ? that be not a cosmetic issue , but one that concern the health of the child and their ability to flourish . my right hon . friend make a very important point , which I will come on to . we have talk about child , but disabled people be another cohort who have be punish over the last 14 year . again , that be disgraceful — I apologise for repeat the same phrase , but I can not think of adequate vocabulary to express my rage about what be happen in different term . ethnic minority community be also disproportionately affect . my hon . friend be make a deeply important speech . do she agree that it be also important to consider the effect poor - quality housing have on all the group she mention , in particular the combination of poverty and poor - quality housing , which lead to action such as parent turn heat down ? that be a very good point . the Department for Work and Pensions have the large spending across Government . the state pension account for the large part of the Department ' s spending , follow by universal credit , but third on the list be housing benefit and the support provide through the housing element of universal credit . give that the Government be invest a large amount of taxpayer ' money in housing , one would think there be some way to safeguard its quality . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South make important point about the escalation in the use of food bank . as I have say before , we do not have a food bank in Oldham before 2010 ; we now have several to meet the need . we be aware of the impact of poverty on the labour market , which I know be of interest to the Minister . we need a healthy labour market to be able to provide the growth we all want to see across the country , but , again , all the evidence suggest that will not happen for the reason set out by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . this be become an increasingly unhealthy country . our healthy life expectancy be decline and our life expectancy be decline , and that have be happen since 2017 . at the time , Professor Sir Michael Marmot warn what the consequence would be , and he be right . in the report that he produce at the beginning of the year — I ask the Prime Minister a question about this just last week — he say that " if everyone have the good health of the least deprive 10 % of the population there would have be 1 million few death in England in the period 2012 to 2019 . of these , 148 , 000 can be link to austerity " — directly link to austerity . " in 2020 , the first year of the covid pandemic , there be a further 28 , 000 death " that could have be prevent . those be the consequence of the poverty and inequality that we have in this country . the Select Committee be undertake an inquiry into the adequacy of social security support . with that in mind , I once more commend the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Trussell Trust , which have put together some interesting recommendation on the essential guarantee . they suggest that what we provide should be base on need rather than on some quite subjective view of what the level of support should be . I hope the Work and Pensions Committee can support some aspect of that . finally , I will just mention that £ 120 per week for a single person , instead of the £ 70 currently , would be a good step in the right direction . thank you for your latitude , Madam Deputy Speaker . give the number of we in the Chamber , I do not think that this will be an afternoon of high drama . I , like other , do not intend to divide the House on the motion before we . the Government make their decision on uprating last year . pensioner around the country let out a collective sigh of relief that the triple lock have be keep . no one here today will vote down either this or the next statutory instrument . clearly , we on the Opposition Benches would like the measure to go far , but we know that the harm from torpedo they would be catastrophic , because it would prevent the propose increase from take place . none the less , as the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) say , there be different way of do this , and give that we have this opportunity to speak today , I will do so to allow the Minister to get a feel for the mood of the House — how we feel the Government be perform in this area , and , more importantly in an election year , how our constituent feel that they be perform . it be quite clear that the outcome of Government policy be hard to swallow . what we be see be woman die as they fight for compensation because of the Government ' s maladministration of their state pension , and that be clearly not acceptable . we see pensioner go hungry and risk illness because they can not afford to either eat or stay warm , and that be not acceptable . I raise a number of these issue relate to pension poverty in my recent Adjournment debate , and I look forward to meet the Minister , as be promise , to discuss some of they . as member have already say , we know that one in three child be live in poverty , and that be not acceptable . Madam Deputy Speaker , the report card be in , and it be a fail . record number of family be rely on emergency food parcel . in April to September last year , 320 , 000 people turn to a food bank for the first time . the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) mention the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s essential guarantee . I find it interesting that we be here debate how much the uprating to benefit be , but we never seem to debate what be the correct amount in the first place that can allow people to live in dignity and obtain their essential . perhaps if people have that certainty , they would be well place to improve their health and often their employment opportunity . incidentally , the Trussell Trust be on the estate today — indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker , I think I see you at the meeting — and I hope the Minister have have the time to visit its staff in the Churchill Room to hear directly from they . the Minister and I have work together on the all - party parliamentary group on end the need for food bank and our inquiry report into cash or food . there today I learn my own statistic for North East Fife . I have one main Trussell Trust food bank , in Cupar , which until recently be ably run by Joe Preece — he have just step down after a number of year in charge . those statistic show I that there have be a 25 % increase in the use of the Cupar food bank since 2018 . that be before covid ; the Government give lot of reason about people experience pressure due to the cost of living but we all know in this place that food bank use be increase long before covid come along . child poverty cost the Government £ 39 billion each year through immediate additional public service and the delay cost associate with the high risk of unemployment in adult who grow up in poverty . that £ 39 billion per year be a huge amount of what be to some extent avoidable spending , and I find it hard to believe that we could find a voter who think that let a child live in poverty be acceptable if we could avoid it . even if we could find that voter , I be pretty sure they would be horrify by the amount it be cost they , the taxpayer , to effectively do nothing . so I put it to the Minister and the Government that they be shoot themselves in the foot by uprating benefit with inflation while keep the two - child limit and freeze the benefit cap . the Minister might say in his closing remark that the cap be increase last year but that be disingenuous because it have be freeze since 2016 , when it be actually lower . last year ' s uprating be vital but totally insufficient in end poverty . when I be elect in December 2019 some 41 , 000 family across the UK be subject to the benefit cap and now there be over 75 , 000 . the drop in number from the uprating last April will quickly vanish if the cap be freeze for another seven year . indeed , these be the two policy which , if change , would be the most effective and efficient mean of lift hundred of thousand of child out of poverty . I do not know for how long the Minister will be in his current position — we do not know when the general election will be this year and the change that might bring — but what a legacy it would be to take hundred of thousand of child out of poverty . I hope he agree with I on that . it would not be a DWP debate for I without raise the issue of unpaid carer and in particular carer ' s allowance . follow this uprating , carer ' s allowance will be £ 81 . 90 each week , claimable by the 1 . 3 million carer who do 35 hour of unpaid care each week — full - time work . that be just £ 15 . 75 per week more than when I be elect four year ago — for each hour of cooking , cleaning , bathing , appointment , admin and worrying , an extra 45p . so yes I be bring it up again . I be look forward to meet the Chief Treasury to the Secretary next month to discuss carer ' s allowance , particularly the much - need reform of it , because I believe that carer ' s allowance create barrier to work . almost half of carer receive carer ' s allowance report that they be struggle to make end meet , and if they be struggle , the people they be care for be struggle too . I be go to end with a local gripe . yesterday I receive a letter from the DWP north - east Scotland service leader . this follow from the Department ' s write statement six day ago about start the next phase of the transition to universal credit . the letter be date seven day ago and it tell I that the move to universal credit expansion into North East Fife have be move forward , to nine day ago — two day before the letter be write , three before the announcement be make by the Government , and over a week before I be actually tell . mp rely on timely communication to be able to do our job , to scrutinise Government activity and to support our constituent . I very much hope that that be a one - off error but I raise it here in the hope that future error can be prevent . these order be a technical necessity , but when we look past that — when we look past the different way of calculate inflation and the actuarial argument — what we be talk about be what kind of society we want to live in . during covid many find out for the first time about the inadequacy of our social security system and for those remain on it , it remain deeply inadequate . I can not better what the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) say about poverty in this country and we should reflect on that if we be pass social security uprating order because the level of poverty be an utter disgrace . one have only to spend a short time in a food bank anywhere across the country to realise the desperation of many people who be prepared to queue , often for a very long time , just to get a few packet of pasta to keep their family together for another week . the number access food bank be go up all the time . People be increasingly go to community centre to try to get food that have be donate by other . the level of poverty be huge . I will bring two specific area to the House ' s attention . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) just talk about the first : the two - child benefit policy , which limit universal credit to claimant ' first two child . like all member , I have many constituent who be part of large family . the somali community , the Haredi jewish community , the congolese community , the Bengali community and a number of other often have quite large family . be there anything morally right in say that the third , fourth , fifth or sixth child in a family be less valuable than the first or second ? can anyone justify that ? I do not believe that they can , yet the policy persist . the cost of change the policy would be £ 1 . 3 billion . that might sound like a lot . it do not sound very much compare with overall Government expenditure , nor compare with the benefit that it would bring in lift a lot of child and family out of poverty . at the moment , around 1 . 3 million child be affect . they come from around 400 , 000 household . [ interruption . ] be the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) try to intervene ? no , I be just enjoy the right hon . member ' s speech . the hon . Member be look with interest . I be grateful to he for that , and for what he say . I hope that as a result of this debate the Minister will seriously examine the poverty create by the two - child policy , and that all party in this House will recognise that we ill serve the community if we deliberately discriminate against child in large family . child live in poverty be less likely to achieve their full potential in school , and the job and career that they want . as a result , we all lose . we all lose out on their talent because we disregard their need when they be at their most desperate . I hope that the Minister will recognise that . secondly , the uprating order include an increase in housing benefit in line with the rate of inflation that be applicable . the problem be that in constituency such as mine , where a third of the population live in the private rent sector , housing benefit never quite catch up with the increase in rent impose by private sector landlord . it be not just a London problem ; it exist in Glasgow , Edinburgh , Newcastle — all over the country . yes , local housing allowance be be increase in line with a perception of what the affordable rent level be within the community , but it never quite catch up . a friend of mine be help somebody to find a flat locally . they spend day trawl through agent , and all the other place one go to try to find a flat . they find few than half a dozen flat available to rent within the local housing allowance . in lot of inner urban area , have neither rent control nor a sufficient level of housing benefit or local housing allowance effectively lead to an expulsion of the poor from those community . we need to come back to that and introduce private sector rent control , and we need a local housing allowance that be realistic and meet people ' s housing cost . otherwise , it be often the poor and large family who get shift from one private rent sector flat to another , thus damage those child ' s education and life chance . if we be to live in a society where we be proud of our welfare state , the welfare state have to work for the poor in our community . at the moment , frankly , it do not . I thank everyone who have participate in this debate . I be very disappointed in the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) , who seem to think that I do not write my own material . he should know that my private office staff be sit in trepidation , as I write across every speech they give I in blue and red ink . they never know what will emerge from my mouth . I can assure he that it be all my own work , and he can criticise it all the more for that reason . I be also disappointed that people think this order be just a technical necessity . I do not call £ 19 billion of Government spend a technical necessity . it be one of the large amount of extra spending in which the Government engage in any particular year , and it will make a considerable difference to the life of people across the country . do you want a round of applause ? no , I certainly do not , but I would want to think that those of we in this Chamber do not dismiss the order as a technical measure . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) repeat a point that I think he make this time last year — I also make this point when I be sit in the far corner of the Chamber as a Back Bencher — on the timely application of these measure and whether we ought to make they more promptly after inflation be measure . as a member of the Work and Pensions Committee , he will know that this issue be often discuss , with the discussion often revolve around the robustness of universal credit ' s it system compare with the IT system for legacy benefit . I be tell the hopefully promising news that state pension benefit , in particular , will be move to a more modern IT platform by 2025 , follow by disability benefit , contributory benefit and carer ' s allowance , so there be a pathway towards get all our benefit on to modern IT system that be more agile in respond to economic situation . I hear his point , and work be under way . the hon . member for Glasgow East and for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) both talk about the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , and I be a great admirer of its work . as a Back Bencher , I sit on many Zoom meeting and team meeting to listen to its briefing . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) and I have discuss the essential guarantee many time , so I take a personal interest in what the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say . since the period cover by its report , the Government have provide over £ 104 billion of extra support to help household with the high cost of living . although I understand that the Joseph Rowntree Foundation will stick to the broad theme of its argument , we need to recognise that Government support have move on . I do not want to pre - empt the meeting of the hon . member for North East Fife with the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , which I hope will bring well news than I be able to deliver from the Dispatch Box . I have hear about her letter . my favourite episode of " Fawlty Towers " be " Communication Problems " , which be a comic classic , and the tale she tell be such an example . I be sure my official have make a note , and we will hopefully follow up with a clarify letter . finally , I turn to the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . not be the Minister in charge of local housing allowance , I be a little cautious about give he a more definitive answer at this stage — [ interruption . ] nothing annoy I more than when other Ministers intrude on my brief without tell I , so it be a courtesy to they , nothing more . the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order will increase the state pension by 8 . 5 % , in line with the rise in average earning , and it will increase most other benefit rate by 6 . 7 % , in line with the rise in consumer price . these change commit the Government to increase expenditure of £ 19 billion in 2024 - 25 . they maintain the triple lock , protect pensioner on the low income and support those in the labour market , while maintain work incentive and protect the value of benefit for those who can not work and who have additional disability need . I commend this statutory instrument to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . pension I beg to move , that the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . I feel almost like a Netflix series , in that people can now binge - watch two episode of I in a row . I hope none the less that this matter be worth equal consideration . the Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order set out the yearly amount by which a guarantee minimum pension part of an individual ' s contract - out occupational pension earn between April 1988 and April 1997 must be increase . occupational pension scheme be require to increase gmp that be earn during that period and be in payment by 3 % for the 2024 - 25 financial year . as this be quite a technical matter , I will provide a little background information on gmp , and what they be and be not . gmp be create to help make occupational pension provision more affordable and more secure . as many member present will be aware , the state pension use to be make up of two part : the flat - rate basic state pension and the earning - relate additional state pension . the flat - rate state pension be fund through the national insurance scheme , and pay the full rate to those with sufficient qualifying year of NI contribution , or pro rata to those with a partial record . the second part of the state pension , the earning - relate additional state pension , be link to a person ' s earning . the national insurance contribution pay by both the employee and their employer give the employee the right to an additional earning - relate state pension . that be design to ensure that as many worker as possible be able to save for their retirement through a work - base pension . however , many employer already offer their worker a company pension through their own scheme , so many people be already build up an occupational pension , and an earning - relate additional state pension in effect replicate that provision . that be consider onerous and potentially unaffordable for both employer and employee . it be see as double provision and over - complicated . in order to simplify the situation , the Government of the day introduce in 1978 the system of contract out , and the provision of guarantee minimum pension , which be the subject of this order . between April 1978 and April 1997 , employer sponsor a salary - relate occupational pension scheme could " contract out " their occupational pension scheme from the earning - relate additional state pension . People who be member of a contract - out scheme be take out of the additional state pension , so as a result both the employer and the pension scheme member pay low - rate national insurance contribution . in return , salary - relate contract - out occupational pension scheme be require to take on the responsibility for pay their member a guarantee minimum pension as a part of their occupational pension from the scheme . the guarantee minimum pension that the member build up in the scheme would be broadly equivalent in value to the additional state pension that they would have receive have they stay in the state system . the majority of employee would also have build up an occupational pension over and above the guarantee minimum pension amount , but the scheme pension could never be low than that guarantee minimum . the crux of the idea be that , rather than pay additional national insurance to the state in order to build up an additional state pension , people could build up a similar amount of occupational pension through a workplace pension scheme . the system run in that way from 1978 to 1997 . have set out the detail , which I accept be complicated , let I turn to the order before we . the order provide a measure of inflation protection for the guarantee minimum pension part of an occasional pension build up between April 1988 and April 1997 . legislation stipulate that , when there have be an increase in the annual level of price as measure the previous September , the order must increase the guarantee minimum pension part of the occupational pension by that percentage or 3 % , whichever be low . as the September 2023 figure be 6 . 7 % , the increase for the financial year 2024 - 25 will be 3 % . the cap of 3 % aim to achieve a balance between provide some measure of protection against inflation for member and , crucially , not increase scheme ' cost beyond what they can generally afford , in order to avoid undermine the viability of some scheme and see they go into the Pension Protection Fund . an obvious question come to mind : what happen when inflation be above 3 % , as it be currently ? Most member who reach the state pension age before 2016 will still get the same inflation protection for their post - 1988 guarantee minimum pension as if they have never be contract out . that be achieve through an uplift that they receive in their additional state pension . for those reach state pension age after April 2016 , who be therefore receive the new state pension , there be transitional arrangement in place , which be particularly beneficial for people who be contract out . these member will therefore still get the 3 % increase from their occupational pension scheme . I recognise that this be perhaps a very complex and technical area , but I be satisfied that the order ensure that the burden place upon scheme be an appropriate one , but also one that ensure that recipient get an increase in their pension that give they some measure of protection against inflation . I therefore commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . hopefully , the House will be relieve to know that I do not intend to repeat the explanation of this order that the Minister have just give . as he say , the statutory instrument address the need of a specific group of pensioner . we support the measure and will therefore obviously support the order . I will just take a very short amount of time to raise a few other related issue . far to the debate that we have on the previous order , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will remember that under Labour we see an historic fall in pensioner poverty . unfortunately , that have be rise recently , which be alarming after nearly two decade of decline : one in six pensioner be now live in poverty , with the figure rise to one in four among those who be single . I hope the Minister agree that Britain should be one of the good country in the world in which to be a pensioner , so the fact that many be still spend their later year in poverty do not reflect well on we . labour in power introduce pension credit , ensure that pensioner ' weekly income reach a minimum guarantee level while offer a whole host of benefit , such as free dental and optical treatment . however , as we have discuss many time across the Dispatch Box , despite highly publicise campaign , statistic release in October show that 40 % of those eligible to claim pension credit be still not do so . give that I be sure the Minister share my concern about this matter , will he confirm what more the Government be do within their power to make people aware of their potential pension credit entitlement ? since we have just rehearse all of the argument about the cost of living , I think the Minister might like to take a moment to reflect on what more the Government can do . as we know , social security system can not perform their most basic function if entitlement be erode by inflation or , bad , not take up at all . far to the debate that we have just have , we also need to end the speculation about uprating . pensioner should not be put through that , any more than anyone else should . as we all know , the key to a good retirement start in the workplace , when retirement can often seem like a distant concept . we need people to consider their future early on , which be the logic behind automatic enrolment — a massive policy success start under the last Labour Government , which have drive up the number of people save . however , too many people be still fall through the net . in September , the Pensions ( Extension of Automatic Enrolment ) Act 2023 receive Royal Assent with cross - party support , give Ministers the power to abolish the low earning limit for contribution , and reduce the age for be automatically enrol from 22 to 18 . at the time , the pension Minister , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , say : " we will consult on the detailed implementation at the early opportunity " . we have not have further information about that implementation , and I want to give the Minister the opportunity to share any information about what be happen with those power . I hope that all member across this House will agree that the extension of auto - enrolment be a good thing , and that we should crack on with it . I will make one final point : the roll - out of collective define - contribution scheme , which provide an income for later life while give member great certainty about retirement outcome that they could achieve , be certainly to be welcome . however , more need to be do to ensure that the proper framework be in place for company that express an interest in CDCs , while ensure that those who can still join a define - benefit scheme do so . I would be grateful if the Minister comment on that . very briefly , the Pensions Minister will know , because there be a Westminster Hall debate on this a couple of week ago , about some of the issue experience with define - benefit pension scheme with company such as BP not apply the limit that have be recommend by the trustee . do the shadow Minister agree that we need to ensure that company that have make promise to pensioner actually pay out ? I be not entirely sure whether that intervention be for I , so I will let the Minister respond when he wind up . however , on company keep their promise , that seem like one of the basic to I . as I say before , we support these measure and will not oppose the Government ' s proposal , but I would very much welcome the Minister ' s comment on the question I have raise . I call the SNP spokesperson . when the Minister be make reference to a Netflix series early , I do think that the pension uprating debate would be an unusual backdrop for Netflix and chill . I do not know whether that be the first time " Netflix and chill " have be refer to in Hansard — I be at risk of get myself into trouble now , so I will move on quickly . as with the previous order , my party will not oppose this order . in the previous debate I focus my remark on poverty more broadly . now I want to speak about the number of pensioner in poverty , which rise between 2020 - 21 and 2021 - 22 , with pensioner on low income among some of the hard hit by the cost of living crisis . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s report , which I cite early , reveal that 2 . 1 million pensioner be live in poverty in the UK in 2021 - 22 , with the poverty rate for single pensioner almost double that of couple pensioner and about one in six pensioner overall live in poverty . I know this be feel acutely in community such as Carmyle and Sandyhills in Glasgow ' s east end . the reality , accord to Age Scotland , be that 9 % of over - 50 be skip meal due to financial pressure , and 65 % of people age between 60 and 64 be have to dip into saving to meet unexpected rise cost . I meet the Trussell Trust just this morning , and it be certainly see a large number of pensioner use its service than before . this be of course the case for many WASPI woman , give that the ombudsman find that there be indeed maladministration in the communication from the Department for Work and Pensions , with the cost of living crisis certainly make matter much bad for woman bear in the 1950 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention 1950s - bear woman such as my constituent Kathy McDonald . do he not agree that there could have be plenty of time today for we to discuss the plight of those 1950 - bear woman , and to see what justice and compensation we should be deliver for they ? my hon . friend be right . I know Kathy McDonald , one of the 1950 woman , who be a force of nature and do an incredible service for woman bear in the 1950 . it be frustrating that we can have these debate about 1950s woman , but I be clear that what 1950 woman want be not necessarily word from this place , but action from this place . I think that challenge will be put to the two main party at Westminster as we come towards the election , and I encourage all those 1950 woman to press their candidate on the need for fair and fast compensation , as well as for wide action to tackle the unacceptable gender pension gap that be so pervasive . as Age UK highlight , the state pension be the large single source of income for most pensioner , so retain the triple lock be the very bare minimum . I be glad to hear the comment in the previous debate from the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) on that . the british Government must urgently address the shockingly low state pension level , as they be already provide a low state pension than , frankly , most other advanced economy relative to average earning . as with the issue we face with the social security system , the only way I can see our bring truly able to protect pensioner and treat old people with the basic dignity and respect they deserve be through the power of a normal independent nation , where we can both improve state and occupational pension , and set the state pension at an appropriate level within a scottish context . that be the most crucial point I want to finish on , because constituent in community I represent , such as Sandyhills and Carmyle , know one thing : for as long as Scotland remain within this Union , the state pension age will continue to climb and the state pension itself will remain pitifully low , lead to more pensioner be place in the invidious position of choose between heating or eat . that say everything people need to know about this Westminster Government , who the people of Scotland do not vote for . with the leave of the House , let I thank those who have respond to this debate . there have be a bit of speculation about uprating , but do that start from those on the Government Benches and come from nowhere else ? it do not ; it start on the Opposition Benches and it be sheer political opportunism , nothing more . it will happen year after year , just as the sun shine and the rain fall . the shadow Minister make some interesting point that I want to try to respond to , particularly on pension credit , where I know there be a shared desire to make sure that we always maximise take - up . through the thing we have be try to do lately , besides the television campaign we have be run involve footballer such as Harry Redknapp and so on , every time we write to people about state pension uprating — we be still legally oblige to do so , to 11 million pensioner — they get a piece of paper about pension credit as well . we be trialle writing to pensioner on housing benefit to ask they to apply , to see whether they also be eligible . we have not see the outcome of that work yet . I be really interested to see it , because it will be a good indicator of whether we can use other dataset to get more people involve . we be see much high claim level — 80 % high than a year ago — so a lot of what we be do be generate more interest . that do not always feed through to a successful claim , but it be show that there be more interest . there be no disagreement on this point about pension credit . I just gently ask the Minister to go back to his official and re - examine the paper form for pension credit , which run to some 232 question . give the nature of the demographic dealing with pension credit form , there must be a way of try to simplify they . do he agree that it might be possible to slim down 232 question , so as to get more people their pension credit ? I very much take the point . I be sit down today with people from a range of charity to discuss that very point : how do we get access to those who be least inclined to apply at the moment and what group in society be we miss ? the discussion be very much about how an overreliance on it can often be a barrier and so this be very much part of our thinking . the shadow Minister also ask about the 2017 reform , and the extension of auto - enrolment , invest from the first £ 1 of income and so on . those thing be a personal priority to I . I would love to give she a date for when she will see that ; " in due course " be never a good answer to give at the Dispatch Box , but I be afraid that it be the answer at this stage . however , I be pursue this within the Department , so she have my personal pledge that I be push it be as hard as I can . I be also enthusiastic about CDCs , as I know she be . she will be aware that Royal Mail already have a scheme " ready cook " , and I be keen to see how it progress , but I want to make sure that other business that be also show an interest can input into the formulation of the more sustainable regulation . finally , I come to the point about BP make by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . unfortunately , commitment give in the Chamber do not always align with ministerial diary as to when I be due to meet people , so on all the thing I promise I would raise , I have yet to have a chance to meet the pension regulator to have that fuller discussion . this be still a case of " watch this space " , but I stand by everything I say in Westminster Hall and it be still on the agenda . on that note , I commend this order to the House . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( Amendments relate to Coronavirus and Influenza ) ( England and Wales and Scotland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Employment Motion make , and question put , that the draft Trade Union ( Deduction of Union Subscriptions from Wages in the Public Sector ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 9 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 265 , Noes 185 . question accordingly agree to . Petition - Labour ' s Clean Air Act I rise to present a petition about the need for the Government to tackle the UK ' s big environmental health threat : air pollution . clean air should be a fundamental human right , and have the potential to save million of life . currently , air pollution contribute to 40 , 000 early death a year in the UK ; in Manchester , more than 100 people a year die as a direct result of toxic air , with baby , pregnant woman and the elderly most at risk . labour ' s clean air Act would establish a legal right for citizen to breathe clean air and abide by World Health Organisation clean air guideline , create a healthy and safe Britain for all our constituent . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to formally enact labour ' s Clean Air Act and take further step to address the air pollution national health emergency in the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that clean air should be a fundamental human right and have the potential to save million of life ; note that Labour ' s Clean Air Act would establish a legal right for citizen to breathe clean air and abide by World Health Organisation clean air guideline ; far declare that labour ' s Clean Air Act would place tough new duty on Ministers to ensure air quality guideline be meet to bring in accountability for the Government ; and far declare that labour ' s Clean Air Act would grant new power to local authority to allow they to take urgent action on air quality . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to formally enact labour ' s Clean Air Act and take further step to address the air pollution national health emergency in the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002903 ] Petition - Sale of arm to Israel I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk relate to the sale of arm to Israel . it be fair to say that my correspondence have never include as many representation from constituent on the issue of Gaza and Palestine and express their outrage as it have over the past few month . I share their outrage and concern about the humanitarian crisis that we see unfold . many believe that we should stop export arm to Israel , and I agree with they . it be worth note that the petition be prepare prior to the International Court of Justice ' s ruling suggest that there may be plausible evidence of genocidal act commit by Israel in Palestine . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to suspend all arm transfer to Israel include weapon , arm , munition and ammunition , part and component and other equipment that pose a substantial risk that they could be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law in this conflict . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that the Government ' s sale of arm to Israel be unacceptable , as there be substantial evidence that these arm be be use to kill innocent civilian in Gaza ; far declare that this be in direct breach of the UK arm export policy , which state that the license can not be grant if there be a " clear risk " the arm might be use in a serious violation of international humanitarian law . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to suspend all arm transfer to Israel include weapon , arm , munition and ammunition , part and component and other equipment that pose a substantial risk that they could be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law in this conflict . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002909 ] protect and Restoring Wetlands Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) I be glad to have secure this debate on the press issue of protect and restore wetland in the UK . as the Minister know , I never duck an opportunity to talk about Slimbridge , wetland and flamingo . I understand that I have until 7 . 30 tonight to talk about they — and that I probably would never be allow to speak in the House again if I do so , but I could fill that time . I be bless to have Slimbridge , the headquarters of the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust , in my constituency and to live just down the road from it . I tell a Gloucestershire live reporter this week that it seem to I complete madness that previous Stroud MPs have never use their expertise to highlight the WWT on the national stage . we be really grateful for everyone ' s involvement . we now have an all - party parliamentary group for wetland , and wetland be a constant feature of discussion in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — mainly because I pester everyone all the time , which be a great pleasure . Slimbridge be a place that create calm , allow people to walk among the most beautiful bird and wildlife , learn about conservation success and challenge on the way . my daughter love " welly boot land " . year ago , I get no phone reception at Slimbridge so I use to go to hide there , and it be beautiful . World Wetlands Day , on 2 February , celebrate the creation in 1975 of an international treaty , the convention on wetland . I thank the Minister for take the time to visit the Slimbridge expert last week and for her advocacy on this issue . I also thank previous Ministers , some of whom be in the Chamber . wetland be some of the most threatened habitat in the world , yet they be also the most vital for wildlife and people . in the UK we have so many type of wetland , from coastal habitat such as saltmarshe , seagrass and estuary , to inland feature such as pond , lake , river , stream , bog , fen , swamp , marsh and peatland . the severn estuary be a true gem in my constituency , and be key for support internationally important number of dunlin , redshank , ring plover , black - tail godwit , shelduck , teal , pintail , and another that I will not even try to pronounce . it be incredibly important . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate . I have notice in the time she have be in this House that one of her great interest be the Slimbridge wetland . Castle Espie , just outside Comber in my constituency , be part of the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust as well . the work carry out by the trust there be essential , give that almost the entire global population of brent geese reside in and around Strangford lough during the winter month . that work take time and money , and it need to be well support by Government . I fully support what the hon . Lady be try to achieve , because I know that the benefit she get for Stroud , we will get for Comber . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I would very much like to visit to see his brent geese at some stage . because it be so important for conservation and awareness , I encourage all member to go and get their social media clip with their wetland and wildfowl . the convention on wetland , also know as the Ramsar convention , be a crucial international treaty aim at conserve and promote the sustainable use of wetland . the old global intergovernmental environmental agreement in the world , it set the standard for international co - operation on environmental action that other , more high - profile international agreement have follow . I be proud to say that the UK Government be an early signatory to the convention back in the ' 70 , underline our commitment to the preservation of these valuable ecosystem . the WWT play a significant role as one of the six international organisational partner involve in the convention ' s implementation . various stakeholder , include environmental non - governmental organisation , contribute to this collaborative effort , show the importance of partnership in safeguard our wetland . I be grateful to my hon . friend , both for initiate this debate and for kindly let I say a word about the Freshwater Habitats Trust , whose New Forest representative , Thea Margetts , I meet at the volunteer fair put on by the national park authority last weekend . it be amazing what these volunteer contribute , not least the New Forest water code and other great pointer and advice as to how we can keep these precious but delicate environment safe . I thank my right hon . friend for that important intervention , which bring alive the number of freshwater volunteer and show just how many people be grip by this environmental work , really take it into their heart and run with it . I would say that the wetland squad be true squad goal ! they really do work together and with a range of different people across this country and around the world . ramsar site — protect wetland of international importance — be some of the UK ' s most precious natural treasure . with 175 Ramsar site , the UK have more than anywhere else in the world . these site be the equivalent of the white cliff of Dover or Stonehenge in their significance to the cultural identity of our nation — a country renowne for its wet weather . I thank the hon . member for secure this debate in the same week as World Wetlands Day . I want to contribute some information about Seaton wetland and , in particular , the Black Hole marsh . before 2008 , the Black Hole marsh be just a drain agricultural field , but the Environment Agency work with a local engineering company to devise a tidal exchange gate that allow in salt water to ensure the lagoon have just the right level of salinity . since that be do , we have see the return of the dunlin , the ring plover and the black - tail godwit . do the hon . Lady think that the tidal exchange gate innovation might be replicate elsewhere ? the opportunity for wetland and this kind of work be absolutely endless , and I would be interested to hear from the Minister about that . there have be an extraordinary amount of investment in this work in the hon . Gentleman ' s neck of the wood and elsewhere in the country . it would be helpful to hear more about these opportunity and the innovation of which he speak . with all my colleague in the Chamber bring alive their own experience of wetland , I believe the UK can really celebrate World Wetlands Day and hold our head high because of our history and status as an early signatory to the convention . if we choose to lead on this , with the multifaceted environmental masterclass that our wetland represent , we will be able to command immediate respect because of our history and our work so far . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important debate . without want to sound competitive , Somerset have some amazing wetland and Ramsar site , and Somerset Wetlands , which include the west of Sedgemoor in my constituency , be England ' s large super national nature reserve . do she agree that such declaration be crucial to reverse nature ' s decline and to the fight against climate change ? I do . I will come on to the fight against climate change , because the hon . Lady be absolutely right . she speak about Somerset . investment of £ 20 million , I think , go in for flood resilience work , and there be work go on with farmer . the expertise she speak to can be sell around this country and export around the world , so I be excited that she be able to speak so fondly of that . with volunteer in mind , I want to speak to the current situation with our wetland . I send love , respect and absolute hug to all the Slimbridge volunteer ; we could not do the conservation work without they . it be a sad fact that for century we have not be look after our wetland ; there have not be that love and care that everyone in the Chamber want for they . a staggering 75 % of our UK wetland have be lose over the past 300 year — this be not just a recent thing — and while the rate of decline be now slow thank to a lot of the work that be go on , the precious few wetland that remain be under considerable pressure . they be in a poor condition than we would like , and we think we could do much more work . I will speak briefly about what we should be focus on now and in the come month . I would welcome a renew push on four transformative step that would speed up the progress on create and restore 100 , 000 additional hectare . I invite everyone in the Chamber to join the all - party parliamentary group for wetland and join the fight , because it be crucial to achieve the net zero target . I would like action , but I will also take manifesto commitment . before my hon . friend come on to her priority , may I just set out how impressive she have be in persuade I , as a former Minister , and colleague across the House of the wonderful benefit of wetland ? we be all more knowledgeable thank to she and the work of WWT in her constituency . as well as the benefit for climate change and biodiversity , do she recognise the benefit to our health ? our mind , body and soul can really appreciate the value of spending time in green and blue space . as there seem to be some competition , let I say that I have 32 mile of coastline and many lake — a wetland in the English Lake district . the benefit to our mental and physical health must not be underestimate . a wetland can be just a pond , and the 30 million gardener across this great land can also play a significant part . absolutely right . my hon . friend be a keen walker and get out into the environment as much as possible . to be beside water be a particularly tranquil experience for most people and that be certainly something wwt campaign on , because we know the benefit . I ask the Government to commit to a national strategy for UK wetland . Most of the work have be do , so let we label it as a national strategy and pull it all together , because the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be do some great work . I would like to see a dedicated domestic wetland team at DEFRA , to ape the success of the peat team , who be brilliant expert . if I can not have a whole team , I will take a name civil servant we can go to who really own all the different moving part , because I know it be in lot of different part of the DEFRA family . I would like to create a nutrient offset code to rebuild investor confidence in that market , and to provide guidance and training for national flood management to ensure that land manager , council and practitioner can take advantage of those option . I would like the creation of a saltmarsh restoration grant scheme , as have be do for peatland , and to scale up saltmarsh creation through the nature for climate fund . I would like a requirement for new development to include sustainable urban drainage system . we believe schedule 3 to the Flood and Water Act 2010 should be enact — I have speak to that in this place on a number of occasion . as I have say , however , plenty of very good work have be do , and I think we should talk about it more and perhaps pull it all together , because wetland be nature ' s secret weapon . I recall that when my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) come to Slimbridge , we have a mic - drop moment when the expert explain that wetland can store 18 time more carbon than tree . while a tree take 10 year to reach its full " pace " , with wetland the process be instant . I think that the slogan for wetland should be # justaddwater — for environmental clout , for wellbee , for flood defence , for carbon storage and for water quality . I understand that the Minister will speak about some of the work that the Government be do , because there be an awful lot of it , but I think that if there have be more awareness of what be go on , we would not have see the nutrient neutrality drama and some of the firefighting that Ministers be have to do . so much work be actually there , but no one have mention it . I think that home - builder be already get there ; we just need to light the touch paper and let everyone run . there be a great deal more that I could say , but you have a life to get back to at some stage , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I know what long hour you work . let I just mention the powerful benefit to british wildlife . I think that there be too much talk of target and carbon in this place , but people " get " specie and wildlife . in the UK , wetland cover only 3 % of the land , but they support 10 % of its specie . it be clear that we can scale up biodiversity and other support if we invest , think it through and protect our wetland . let I say a little about flood resilience . the Government ' s green recovery challenge fund help project such as the WWT ' s Two Valleys : slow the Flow , which demonstrate the effectiveness of use natural flood management to stop flood pressure on property downstream . that be happen in Somerset , but I know that work of this kind be take place in local authority area all over the country . let we bring it to life and end the devastating impact of event such as Storm Henk , which we see recently . let I also say something about water pollutant filter . I know that in her previous brief the Minister work extraordinarily hard on the problem of sewage and the victorian network that we be try to repair , but we now know that specially engineer wetland call treatment wetland have the potential to remove up to 60 % of metal , trap and retain up to 90 % of sediment run - off , and eliminate 90 % of nitrogen ; so we can use wetland to remove pollutant from water . as for the point that have be make about physical wellbeing , spend just 10 minute in urban wetland have be show to yield extensive improvement . I urge everyone to go down to Bridgwater and observe the juxtaposition of the big high rise and the wetland that have be create , which people have be use throughout covid and beyond . the Climate Change Committee have stress the importance of protect and restore saltmarsh and seagrass because they be so efficient at carbon removal . in the long term , saltmarshe bury carbon 40 time fast than woodland . I know that the Government be obsess with tree because we can count they , and we like thing to be measurable , but there be other option . let we do the tree , but let we do the wetland as well . the WWT have a superb Blue Recovery Leaders Group of business which have back this initiative because they can see the economic benefit and want to invest in the environmental power of the country . company such as Aviva have invest a massive amount because they can see that this stuff work for their customer , for their employee , and for the country and beyond . in short , wetland have nature - boost , flood - busting , carbon - sink , mood - lifting , water - clean superpower , so why be we not make more of they — or , rather , even more of they , because I know exactly how much work the Minister and other be do in this regard ? what a wonderful wetland - bust speech that be . but I expect no less of my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , who be not only a wonderful advocate for her constituency but a particular advocate for the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust and — as have be point out by some of our colleague — for all thing wetland , help to embed this subject in our parliamentary agenda . she be fortunate to have in her constituency the wonderful wildfowl and wetland centre at Slimbridge . I be a bit envious , but actually I have the Somerset level in my constituency , which be itself an internationally recognise wetland , so we have a great deal in common . I thank my hon . friend for what she have lay out today and for make the case for more attention for wetland . I will pick up many of her point but I also want to convey that we be already do a great deal for wetland . as we have hear , the term cover a multitude of area , from the huge internationally protect site right down to the garden pond . that point be well make by the previous Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) . I want to talk about what we be do , while obviously recognise that there be almost always more to do . the importance of wetland be recognise by the very fact that people have stay for the Adjournment debate , which be not always the case , so thank you to they . these ecosystem be not just landscape of natural beauty and biodiversity ; they be also critical to our mission to restore nature and to hit our climate change target . I be go to lay out the thing that we be already do and the thing that we be work on . a year ago , we publish our environmental improvement plan , which set out the Government ' s ambition to improve the environment for the whole nation . those commitment be underpin by our legally bind Environment Act 2021 target , include our apex target to halt the decline of specie by 2030 . this should not be take lightly ; it be a globally lead target . it be pretty phenomenal to have commit to set such a target in law . we have also commit to create or restore over 500 , 000 hectare of wildlife - rich habitat by 2042 . internationally , at the most recent convention on biological diversity , COP15 , the UK be at the forefront of effort to secure another ambitious agreement , to protect 30 % of the world ' s land and ocean by 2030 , include through the conservation and restoration of freshwater habitat . we have hear today about the freshwater volunteer work in the Forest of Dean — [ interruption . ] apology , the New Forest . those volunteer recognise the importance of the habitat in their area in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . in December we further our commitment to freshwater wetland habitat at the United Nations framework convention on climate change , COP28 , by sign up to the international freshwater challenge . we be also a proud member of the international Ramsar convention on wetland . across the UK , include the Crown dependency and overseas territory , we protect 175 internationally important Ramsar site . that be more than any other country in the world . I want to add something that we have do through the environmental improvement plan and the national adaptation plan . we will be establish a UK wetland inventory in support of the Ramsar convention . this involve mapping where these varied wetland be , which will inform our action to restore they , improve they or add to they . that will be very beneficial , and it be something that many people have be call for . these wetland site have receive enhanced protection that reflect their importance . we have give they the same protection as our country ' s most precious site — our protect habitat site — to prevent damage by apply rigorous environmental assessment . our commitment in England be to get 75 % of our protect site into favourable condition by 2042 . that will benefit large swathe of these wetland , and much restoration work will be include in that . the UK ' s wetland represent some of our nation ' s most precious and sensitive habitat , provide a wonderful place for winter and breed habitat for wetland bird . we have have a big list , and I be go to add to it . I see many bird at Slimbridge last week : the black - tail godwit ; the curlew ; the beautiful Bewick ' s swan ; the golden plover , although I take issue with the wonderful guide who work there because the plover look more brown than gold , but the guide say that the sun have to be shine to see the gold ; and the wonderful lapwing , which I love — we use to call they peewit at home , on the farm where I grow up . those bird be all there at the Slimbridge Wetland Centre , which must be commend for its work and the fantastic advice it give visitor , regardless of their level of knowledge . I do not know if you be a keen birder , Mr Deputy Speaker , but even if you be not , you would be inspire because the guide point out the most amazing bird fly in and out , and fly in flock . it be captivate , as my hon . friend have lay out — a natural treasure . wetland habitat be incredibly diverse , from blanket bog to aquatic marginal area , reedbed to riverine habitat . they make a huge contribution and restore they be critical to hit our target . we have launch 12 landscape - scale nature recovery project over the past two year , half of which include wetland habitat within wilde mosaic . as have be say , quite a lot of that money have come to Somerset , include some significant grant for Shapwick Moor and site in my constituency and that of the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) . those grant will help to restore work - out peatland , which have dry out and be haemorrhage carbon , by rewette they , and also enable work with farmer to raise the water table to have wetter foot . basically , we be get back to the original state of the peatland — the wetland . those project be support specie recovery and building resilience against the impact of climate change . in total , such project cover something like 200 , 000 hectare , so a significant amount be already go to restore those wonderful site . we be about to announce the successful bid to our £ 25 million specie survival fund grant , which we launch last year . a range of those project will restore more habitat , include wetland . half of the project fund by our £ 14 . 5 million specie recovery programme capital grant scheme will support the recovery of wetland habitat and specie such as the wonderful lapwing and black - tail godwit , as well as mammal such as the water vole and white - face darter . I know that have spark the interest of Mr Deputy Speaker . as have be say , 10 % of our specie live in wetland , so it be important that we look after they and help those that be in decline . our countryside stewardship scheme pay for action to create and manage reedbed and fen . at the recent Oxford farming conference in January , as part of the new environmental land management scheme , we be update these action to well reflect the cost and income forgone for all farm type to create and maintain those important habitat . that have result in increase payment rate . for example , the previous rate of £ 35 a hectare for management of a fen have rocket to £ 920 a hectare , which have be extremely well receive . in addition , we be make these offer less prescriptive and more flexible about how they achieve the intended outcome . that will help to incentivise the creation of new wetland , contribute to our outcome for biodiversity , water quality and net zero . beyond their crucial role as a home for our wildlife , we recognise the invaluable ecosystem service that wetland provide , include water quality and management , carbon sequestration and public wellbeing . all of those have be ably refer to during the debate . there be even more go on than I have understand . return to my point about a UK strategy , over 50 other country have a strategy for wetland . as I say , I will take a manifesto commitment , but will the Government be willing to look at what those other country have do ? a lot of the work have already be do , so could we make a commitment to ensure that we bring together all that focus down the line ? that would make a lot of people very happy . I thank my hon . friend for that point . we work widely on the international stage . indeed , some of our Blue Planet fund and our Darwin fund go to work on wetland area internationally , particularly restore mangrove and work on climate change . we be already do a great deal , but we can always learn from other country . it should be a reciprocal learning process , and we will continue to work like that . through our plan for water , which be launch last year to tackle pollution , water pollution , storm overflow , agricultural pollution , plastic pollution , road run - off , chemical and pesticide , work be go on to create wetland to help solve those problem . work be also under way in a number of catchment on wastewater treatment work to take out the phosphate , which be affect some of the wetland . therefore , we be take out the nutrient , but we be enable the creation of nature - base solution , include wetland , to help clean the water as well , and that be also well refer to . wetland can also play an important role in reduce flood risk through natural management . I be talk about the creation of wetland to reduce and slow the flow of water . back in September 2023 , the Environment Agency and DEFRA announce £ 25 million of funding for improve flood resilience through these nature - base solution . I just want to touch on sustainable drainage system , which , oddly , be a subject very dear to my heart — I have bang on about they since I be on the Back Benches . we be make big progress on the suds , as my hon . friend will know , work with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . get suds into all our development can make such a big difference . basically , SuDS be like mini wetland within our urban habitat that can take the water and the run - off . they have myriad advantage in slow the flow and reduce flooding , which be so nature diverse . I have a wonderful visit this week to the Bentley housing development in Finsbury Park , not very far away . all around the tower block be these suds , but they just look like beautiful wetland , which in fact be what they be . many company be already use they , and we be move as a Government to get to that stage where SuDS have to be an integral part of our development . wetland can play an important role in address both the cause and the effect of climate change . that be why DEFRA be fund £ 300 , 000 - worth of project this financial year , to measure and verify the carbon storage potential of saltmarsh habitat , which , again , be raise by my hon . friend . that will allow private investment to be leverage through the saltmarsh carbon code . basically , that mean that a standard will be verify for carbon credit and for saltmarsh , which will then trigger a market and private finance can then be leveraged , much as we do with the peatland code . that be on the way , and I believe that be also one of my hon . friend ' s ask . the Nature for Climate Fund be aim to deliver the restoration of approximately 35 , 000 hectare of peatland by 2025 . that be an area the size of Staffordshire . Somerset and many other area be get some of that money . this represent a tripling of historical average annual restoration fund for these area . a great deal of that funding be go to the great north bog , a huge area that be currently be restore . the England peat action plan set out a strategic framework to improve management and protection of upland and lowland peatland . we must not forget that all of those area be basically wetland . they be only effective wetland when they be in a healthy state — basically wet — which be why we have to do this restoration work . in the net zero strategy , we have commit to the aim of restore approximately 280 , 000 hectare of peatland in England by 2050 . that be build on that 35 , 000 hectare , which be well under way . and the £ 80 million green recovery challenge fund have also be a cornerstone in our effort and have contribute to fund a range of nature - base solution for climate mitigation and adaptation , include riverine , coastal , floodplain and graze and marsh habitat . that fund , as many in this Chamber will know , be set up during covid to help with lot of the effect and to get people out into nature and the countryside , but also to create skill and job , and it be extremely successful . we also recognise , as have be mention , the huge importance of improve access to both our green space and our blue space — blue space obviously be nature area or space where there be water . just what that mean to we have be very eloquently outlined — my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) and other touch on this . that point be very well make , and it be why this Government be invest a great deal in access to nature , which include both blue and green space . through our project and commit in our environmental improvement plan to a world where everyone should not be furth than a 15 - minute walk from nature , include wetland , we be embed all this into what we do . today be a great day because we be one year on from the start of our environmental improvement plan and we be celebrate all the great thing that we roll out over this year for the environment , although with more to do , because we have a framework , we have a plan and we have the target . this be not only about Government money ; we be drive to attract money from the private sector into all this investment in nature and nature recovery . that be a latent and expand market and there be significant opportunity for wetland in that space . we have already stimulate investment in wetland protection and through create programme such as our natural environment investment readiness fund , whose third round be launch in December . that offer grant of up to £ 100 , 000 to help farmer start some of these project — re - wet , re - establish wetland , and find out what crop they can grow in these re - wet wetland , and what viable market they might be able to tap into . I want to thank everybody who contribute to this debate — there be genuine and huge interest in wetland in Parliament in every party . I recognise the work that my hon . friend the Member for Stroud have do ; she be a tremendous advocate , and I have listen closely to the point she have make . I think she admit that we be do a great deal more than she realise ; that be because we recognise the importance of our wetland . it be World Wetlands Day on Friday , and I hope everyone will be celebrate . People can watch my Instagram , with all those wonderful picture from Slimbridge . I thank she very much again for her contribution on wetland . what a lovely and fascinating debate to end the day on . thank you and congratulation . question put and agree to . House adjourn .