prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] may I remind the House that this be the final performance of the Clerk of the House ? this be the last time we will see he at the table , but we wish you well , John , and do enjoy your new role . oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — contract for Difference Scheme what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the contract for difference scheme in support low - carbon electricity generation . what assessment she have make of the potential implication of the outcome of the contract for difference allocation round 5 on the future development of float offshore wind . I welcome the Secretary of State . our contract for difference scheme be a UK success story , have contract more than 30 GW of capacity , include 20 GW of offshore wind , since 2014 . AR5 deliver a record number of clean energy project , enough to power the equivalent of 2 million home , and the Government ' s commitment to offshore wind remain unchanged , which be 50 GW by 2030 . I welcome my right hon . friend to her place . the great advantage of the CfD scheme be that with forward planning it have the flexibility to adapt to change economic condition . can she therefore confirm that the Government will be work collaboratively and straightaway with industry to ensure a successful round 6 so that offshore wind can get back on track , and UK consumer and the UK economy can benefit from low - cost , low - carbon energy ? I thank my hon . friend for his long - stand support in this area and I can confirm that we be waste no time in engage the sector in advance of AR6 . I personally speak to offshore wind stakeholder follow AR5 and confirm our commitment . the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero hold a roundtable with the sector on 12 September . we be listen to the sector and annual auction mean we can respond quickly . question 2 please . I know that as chair of the all - party group on the Celtic sea my hon . friend be a long - stand supporter of offshore wind . we have announce that ar6 will open in March 2024 and we have publish an indicative timetable . we be support research and development in float wind technology via the float offshore wind demonstration programme , announce up to £ 160 million in capital grant funding . can we work to the order , as it be a group question ? the question should not be answer in that way . Selaine Saxby should be ask a direct question . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be keen to understand well what more can be do to assist float offshore wind in ar6 follow what happen in AR5 . I know my hon . friend be a long - stand supporter of offshore wind . we have announce that ar6 will open in March 2024 and we have publish that timetable . we be support float wind technology through different programme and manufacture investment scheme too . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . we also welcome the Secretary of State to the Dispatch Box . with many renewable project build on the strength of contract for difference , but with report of many not invoke these contract and instead benefit from the high energy price , can the contract in principle be invoke later , when price fall , or could the Government enforce the invoking of the CfD contract now , at the start of the generation of these project , rather than their take the high price while they can ? the CfD programme have drive price down over time to enormous effect , by 70 % since they start , which be much more than people expect . I would be happy to take the hon . Gentleman ' s particular point away but overall this be a successful programme , and our annual auction change will also make a difference . give the unreliable and intermittent nature of both solar and wind - generate energy , we already have more of these project than the grid can efficiently manage . do the Secretary of State agree that what we really need be more reliable baseload capacity and that that can only be deliver via fossil fuel or nuclear ? we have a strong focus on energy security , and that mean have a just transition to clean energy but also invest in nuclear . the hon . Gentleman may have see that we have start the capital raise for Sizewell C , and we support the oil and gas industry as a just transition fuel . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I wish the Clerk of the House well in the future , and I warmly welcome the Secretary of State to her new role and congratulate she on her appointment to the Cabinet . I look forward to work together . let we start with the truth . the offshore wind auction that she inherit be a totally avoidable disaster . it mean another lose year for our country and another year of high bill , and it be because Ministers obstinately refuse to listen to warn after warn from industry . RenewableUK estimate that the auction failure will add £ 2 billion to bill . what be the Secretary of State ' s estimate of the cost to family of this fiasco ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for welcome I to my place . I be delighted to serve opposite he and face he at the Dispatch Box . there be a couple of thing I will point out . if we have try to do what the right hon . Gentleman suggest , we would have delay the 3 . 7 GW of clean energy that we secure , which be able to power 2 million home . if we want to look at what be go to hurt people and their bill , I would point to his disastrous policy , whether it be the ultra low emission zone , which be hit people who can least afford it , or his borrowing spree , which will raise inflation . I be afraid the Secretary of State be quite wrong about that , because Ireland adjust the price and have 3 GW of offshore wind . let we talk about the way that this Government be jeopardise our energy security . they have deliver — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Stuart , I know this be the last day before the recess and you be excited to get some freedom , but let ' s save it . this Government have deliver the bad cost of live crisis in a generation . there be a pattern here : they ban onshore wind and raise bill , they slash energy efficiency and raise bill , and now they have trash offshore wind , raise bill . that be why we be so exposed . I know that the right hon . Lady do not make those decision , but now that she be the Secretary of State , she need to tell we , after 13 year of failure , what be she go to do differently ? let I tell the right hon . Gentleman about the last 13 year . we have decarbonise fast than any G7 country , while also grow the economy . we have grow renewable energy from 7 % of our electricity when Labour leave power to 50 % now . I be proud of what we have achieve over the last 13 year . we have a proud record when it come to climate change and a proud record when it come to renewable energy , and I be proud to defend it . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . I welcome the Secretary of State to her new role . I wish I could have welcome she to her new role on 5 September , when we have the remain stage of the Energy Bill , but she be not here . I wish I could have welcome she on 7 September for the urgent question on the auction round 5 strike price , but she be not here for that either , so what have the new Secretary of State be do in the midst of the chronic energy crisis face our constituent and allow her Department to see shovel - ready offshore wind go into abeyance ? what have she be do ? I struggle to see how that be directly relate to the question , but let I tell the hon . Gentleman what I have be do . I be here for the Third Reading of the Energy Bill ; perhaps he be not . during this time , I have be move forward with all the Government ' s priority on energy security and ensure that we can move to a just , clean transition . forgive I if that rendition be not immediately recognisable in offshore wind project from auction round 5 . I hope the Department have learn some salutary lesson from this mess , but it will be consumer who pick up the bill . can I ask the Secretary of State for her personal intervention in pump storage to introduce a cap and floor mechanism , which industry have be clear be absolutely necessary to get this vital baseload energy source into position ? will she intervene personally and get that move , because it be blow in the breeze just now ? I be absolutely focused on get investment into offshore wind . one of the first thing I do after AR5 be speak to investor from across the board , to make sure I be listen to their concern , and there be multiple thing they care about . one be have certainty ; there be lot of welcome of the move to annual auction . the other be connection to the grid . I will be look at all those thing and make sure we can get the investment the sector need . Carbon Capture , Usage and Storage what assessment she have make of the potential impact of carbon capture , usage and storage technology on economic growth . we have commit £ 20 billion to the early deployment of carbon , capture , utilisation and storage , which will deliver economic growth and decarbonisation of our industrial heartland . our analysis have show that it could support up to 50 , 000 job in 2030 and add up to £ 5 billion to the economy by 2050 . I thank my right hon . friend for her reply . follow the commitment in " power up Britain " to provide up to £ 20 billion of funding for early deployment of CCUS , how do she intend to finance that support ? do she recognise that CCUS funding need to be match by create a competitive environment for private sector investment , include a carbon border adjustment mechanism to smooth the path to deployment , as recommend by the Commission for Carbon Competitiveness , of which I be a member ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s work as a member of the Commission for Carbon Competitiveness , and she make an excellent point . the £ 20 billion will be fund through a variety of source and will be allocate in due course , and early this year the Government consult on a range on measure to support decarbonisation , include a carbon border adjustment mechanism . the Government will provide a response to that consultation in due course . if the Secretary of State be look for innovation that will make a real difference to economic growth , will she look at not only carbon capture and storage , but hydrogen ? many of the same university and research establishment be look at hydrogen as the new energiser for transport and so much else in our life . will she put some serious money into both hydrogen and CCS ? I be interested in innovation in all of those area , because that be what will get we to the ambitious target we have set out . I will be look at hydrogen , carbon capture , and every single other area to see what more we can do . Methane Leaks from Oil and Gas Production what plan she have to help tackle methane leak from oil and gas production . the Government have ambitious plan to tackle methane emission from oil and gas production . with support from Government and key regulator , industry be on track to end routine flaring and venting prior to 2030 , in line with the World Bank ' s initiative . while I welcome the Government ' s introduction of new oil and gas licence in the North sea as part of a just and graduated transition to more reliance on renewable , the Minister will be aware that methane be a far more warm gas than carbon dioxide . give that much more can be do , will the Government look at how they can ensure that flaring , venting and leak be fix by the new licence holder as and when they occur and , in the context of the North sea transition plan , ensure that the new Affleck oil field be not allow to flare until 2037 , as set out in the permission grant to it ? this be all part of how we can reach net zero without it cost my constituent the earth . the North Sea Transition Authority already expect methane emission to be as low as possible and all new development to be develop on the basis of zero routine flaring and venting , and that they should be electrify or electrification - ready . of course , what be require and will help facilitate that be new investment in the North sea facilitate by licence , without which we be unlikely to see the reduction in emission that we have so successfully drive so far . the Minister have not really give any reassurance to the hon . member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) . as we know , methane be a whopping 80 time more powerful than carbon dioxide over a 20 - year period , so if the Minister be serious about tackle this issue , will he explain why the Government fail to use the Energy Bill to ban flaring and venting ? why do they whip their own mps to vote against an amendment that would have outlaw it , and give that the practice have be illegal in Norway since the 1970 , will he finally recognise that this make a mockery of Ministers ' claim about UK oil and gas being greener ? unusually , the hon . Lady have get her fact wrong : I do not think that amendment be even select for debate that day . accord to the North Sea Transition Authority , flaring be reduce by more than 10 % just last year , contribute to a reduction of nearly 50 % between 2018 and 2022 . as I have say , the North Sea Transition Authority estimate that methane emission have fall by more than 40 % to few than 1 million tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent — a record low . we have old exist infrastructure and be move with a maximum of ambition to reduce emission , and we have a successful track record to date . Climate Change Committee : 2023 Progress Report what assessment she have make of the implication for her Department ' s policy of the Climate Change Committee ' s 2023 Progress Report to Parliament , publish in June 2023 . I be grateful for the work of the Climate Change Committee , and I pay tribute in particular to the commitment of its outgoing chair , Lord Deben . the Government will respond to the committee ' s report in October . the late Climate Change Committee report find that , out of 50 key indicator of Government progress on tackle climate change , just nine be on track . accord to Energy UK , even before the disastrous offshore wind auction , the UK be forecast to have the slow growth in low - carbon electricity generation of the world ' s eight large economy up to 2030 . do the Minister recognise that the Government ' s failure have cost every family £ 180 in high bill ? our climate leadership be measurable and real . we have reduce emission by more than any other major economy since 1990 . we be the first to legislate for net zero . we have eliminate coal , which as late as 2012 produce nearly 40 % of our electricity supply — the legacy of the Labour party — and we have lift renewable from 7 % to 48 % . we have cut emission by more than other , transform our energy system , and we be lead on this issue internationally and domestically . that be exactly what the Government rely on in fulfil their aspiration to climate leadership . do my right hon . friend accept that one consequence of the Climate Change Committee report be to increase our country ' s reliance on chinese technology and raw material ? China have even great offshore wind capacity than ourselves — it have the large wind and large solar capacity in the world — and it have a significant level of production . we recognise that we will need technology from all over the world , include China , if we be to meet our net zero aspiration . I call the shadow Minister . accord to the Climate Change Committee , " the private sector … be be hold back … by weak policy signal , uncertainty , and barrier to investment , " and perhaps we would not need to be so reliant on China if those issue be address . just last month , UK investor represent £ 1 . 5 trillion in asset write to the Prime Minister , warn that that could mean the UK miss out on 1 . 7 million job . will this zombie Government listen to investor and their own adviser , look at the game - change intervention in the States and bring forward a UK version of the Inflation Reduction Act before it be too late to save british business and british job ? yet another unfunded spending commitment from the Labour party — the party that leave we with less than 7 % of our electricity come from renewable and that leave we reliant on coal ; a party that want to nationalise the industry and drive out all those company that have transform the North Sea basin , lead the world in cut the cost of offshore wind , and make we the european leader in offshore wind and the global leader in cut emission . the Labour party be the big enemy of net zero and the big enemy of the private investment in this country that will help we get there . Onshore Wind Industry what step she be take to help develop the onshore wind industry in England . what step she be take to help develop the onshore wind industry in England . the Government recently announce change to national planning policy , give great flexibility to local authority to respond to suitable opportunity for onshore wind . the Government also want community to benefit from host onshore wind and have consult on improve the current system of community benefit for England . the truth be that the Government have fail to properly lift the ban on onshore wind , while bend over backwards to support expensive new oilfield and even give billion in tax break for those pollute project . that ban have already add hundred of pound to people ' s bill , undermine the investment we need in the cheap form of energy , and cost thousand of good green job . will the Minister not admit that the Government ' s failure to properly lift the ban on onshore wind will continue to keep bill higher and make we less energy - secure ? More than 15 GW of onshore wind be deploy in the UK . in our allocation round 5 just the other day , we secure 1 . 7 GW of onshore wind capacity ; allocation round 4 secure 1 . 5 GW . it be extraordinary : an industry — domestic UK oil and gas — have low emission than the alternative from abroad and employ 200 , 000 people , every one of whose job be at risk if the Labour party ever get into power . Labour Members be suggest that there be a negative fiscal impact , when that industry be expect to contribute £ 50 billion over the next five year . the Labour party be an enemy of the transition to net zero and of british job and prosperity . if the Minister will not accept the argument of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , will he at least listen to industry , which describe the recent announcement on onshore wind as a " miss opportunity " to end the ban ? RenewableUK say : " the propose change don ' t go far enough " and would not make up for " eight year of lost progress . " when will the Minister listen to industry and lift the ban properly so that we can cut bill ? on 5 September , the Government announce change to national planning policy for onshore wind in England , give great flexibility to allocate suitable area and to address the planning impact of onshore wind . I agree with the hon . Lady ; I be an enthusiast for more onshore wind where it go with the grain of community , and we will continue to pursue that to make sure that we can realise the benefit that come from it . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister will know , although he unaccountably do not tell we , that there be precisely no new onshore wind in England in the recent ar5 . the Minister claim that the late compromise wording , which he allude to , will lift the ban on onshore wind , but he know really that that be not so and he know what the industry have be say about it and why it will not invest for the future . the result be no new onshore wind get build in the medium - term , high bill for family and less energy security for the country . why will his Department not just face down his luddite back Benchers , introduce fair planning regulation for onshore wind and get the industry restart across England ? as I have just say , we announce change as recently as 5 September . like the hon . Gentleman , I look forward to a positive future for onshore wind in England , as well as in the rest of the United Kingdom . Uyghur Region : Solar Industry source what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the report by Sheffield Hallam University entitle " over - expose : Uyghur Region Exposure Assessment for Solar Industry source " , publish in August 2023 . the Government be determined to ensure that our energy system be not dependent on force labour at home or abroad . the supply chain and innovation sub - group of the solar taskforce be therefore consider this issue as a top priority . I start by welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her place . what conversation have my hon . friend the Minister have with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Department for Business and Trade on eradicate force labour from our supply chain ? do he agree that we must ban the bad offend company from our shore ? will he therefore lead a cross - Government effort to take action on tackle slave labour in our supply chain , just as Germany , America and the EU already have do ? my hon . friend know that this issue be a top priority for the Government and for I . a range of tool can be use to tackle force labour in global supply chain . the Government continue to keep our policy response under close review , and we be work closely with our partner , include at the United Nations , to hold China to account for its egregious human right violation in Xinjiang . we have already take robust action , introduce new guidance on the risk of do business in Xinjiang , enhance export control and introduce financial penalty under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . I thank the Minister for that answer . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I commend the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) on raise this matter . for I , freedom of religious belief in China be paramount and should be a priority for the government — I think it be . to make it happen , we need clear legislation in this place and real power from this Government , and we need to be assure that no company that use force labour in China can have its product sell in this country . again , I seek confirmation from the Minister that that serious strong will be there . I concur very much with the hon . Gentleman ' s view on this matter . the Government be determined to ensure that our energy system be not dependent on force labour . as I say , we be continue to work with international partner to do what we can to hold China to account for its egregious human right violation , and to work with the solar industry to see what we can do to weed out force labour and ensure that it be not part of that supply chain move forward . National Grid Funding : south - west England what plan she have to provide funding for the National Grid in the south - west . electricity network ' funding be regulate by Ofgem through the network price control . in the current price control , National Grid Electricity Transmission will be invest approximately £ 700 million in the south - west . Ofgem have allow £ 5 . 7 billion for the distribution network company cover the south - west , £ 1 . 2 billion of which be for the south - west region specifically . may I declare an interest , as one of my brilliant little sister work in the renewable energy sector ? I want to see more renewable energy scheme get off the ground in the far south - west , but I be be tell that scheme great than 1 MW have to wait until 2027 at the early for a grid connection . this mean that dozen of renewable energy scheme be gather dust on paper , when they should be generate clean power . it be wrong and be set back our net zero ambition . what be minister do to speed up grid connection for renewable energy scheme , allow we to build the already approve clean energy scheme that we need , which will create green job , cut carbon and reduce soar energy bill ? as the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) suggest from a sedentary position , we be do lot and lot . specifically , the Government be use strategic planning to support investment ahead of the need in the network , include the south - west . the first example of that be last year ' s holistic network design , which set out a blueprint for connect new offshore wind project to the grid by 2030 . an update to the holistic network design follow - up exercise , HND 2 , will be publish early next year and provide recommendation for the connection of float offshore wind specifically in the Celtic sea . for the first time , offshore wind developer participate in the Crown Estate ' s lease round 5 will receive clarity over their grid connection from the electricity system operator at the same time as a secure seabed lease . I call Clive Lewis . the Minister may be surprised — [ interruption . ] indeed , question 9 , Mr Speaker . area - base Home Retrofit Schemes what plan she have with Cabinet colleague to help increase the capacity of local authority to deliver area - base home retrofit scheme . to support english local authority , we fund an embed technical assistance facility , provide access to expert , training and guidance to enhance their capability to deliver our domestic grant scheme . second time lucky . the Minister may be surprised — [ Laughter ] — to hear the following word leave my lip , and I know I be : I agree with the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , in her claim that low and middle - income household can not afford to pay for the transition to net zero . where we differ be that I do not believe that we should let the planet burn , as she do . instead , the wealthy must pay for the green transition . will the Minister commit to income and wealth redistribution and finally give household and local authority the ability to transition successfully ? the Government provide a wide range of funding to support local authority in reach net zero through the core settlement , grant funding scheme and UK growth funding . the Government be enable local authority to tackle net zero goal . one of the big challenge that we have in deliver home retrofit scheme in Cumbria be not with local authority but with industry capacity and skill . what be the Government do to try to send the right signal to industry so that we be get the right skill into the supply chain to deliver some of these scheme , especially in area such as Cumbria where we have skill desert ? my hon . friend make a really important point on skill . in fact , we have invest £ 15 million in subsidised training over the past three year and have provide 16 , 800 training opportunity . we will continue to support this important industry . Boiler Replacement Guidance whether she plan to issue guidance to people with oil - fire heating on replacement of boiler . the Government have create an online advice service to help consumer in replace fossil fuel heating system , include oil boiler , with a heat pump . we be also provide funding through the boiler upgrade scheme . this will be helpful . absolutely , Mr Speaker . there be a panic now in Germany as its premature ban on gas - fire boiler approach . the Minister will want to avoid a similar panic as we approach our own premature ban on oil - fire boiler , win ' t he ? as ever , I thank my right hon . friend . we be listen . as the Prime Minister set out , we will reduce our emission in line with our obligation but do so in a way that recognise the challenge that family face . off - grid household will be support through the transition , and we will respond to the consultation in due course . during the summer recess , when I be tour village , I find in my corner of Devon that some constituent be worried about whether they should replace their oil - fire boiler in the next couple of year with a heat pump or put their faith in hydro - treat vegetable oil . some have be encourage by the pilot of so - call HVO as an alternative source to heating oil . what assurance can the Minister offer that it will be a truly sustainable source of fuel and not make from palm oil , which encourage deforestation ? or should we put 100 % of our effort into heat pump ? as the hon . member doubtless know , we have conduct a consultation on the use of HVO in heating , and we be determined to ensure that we decarbonise heat in home , include off - grid home , in a way that be practical and align with minimise any negative impact on those family . energy - intensive Industries : Decarbonisation what step her Department be take to help energy - intensive industry decarbonise . the Government have commit £ 20 billion to support the early development of carbon capture and storage , and £ 500 million for the industrial energy transformation fund to help industry decarbonise , phase 3 of which be expect to open for application in early 2024 . may I put on the record the thank of Back Benchers to the Clerk of the House for his work ? steel account for 8 % of global carbon dioxide emission and 50 , 000 job here in the UK . we have no viable alternative to steel , which be why the Government ' s decision to go with an electric arc furnace only model for decarbonisation do not make any sense . not only do it put at risk thousand of job but it make the industry vulnerable to change in steel price , as the UK will have to import it . the Minister speak about carbon capture , but can she explain why the Government have not go for a combination of technology such as carbon capture , or the retrofitting require for hydrogen - base steel production ? that way , we would not only decarbonise the industry but protect those vital job and the industry in the UK for generation to come . as the Business and Trade Secretary set out , the Government ' s deal have provide long - term security for at least 5 , 000 steel job . the investment will grow UK domestic green steel production . I gently urge the hon . Lady to look at her party ' s plan for industry , which have be describe as impossible and decimate the working class . energy - intensive industry come in many form . can my right hon . friend provide any reassurance that the Government will review the classification of what constitute an energy - intensive industry ? SB Joinery in my constituency contain a large sawmill and planing facility , but have be deem ineligible for high level of the energy bill discount scheme . would my right hon . friend be prepared to look at that case personally ? I would be delighted to meet my right hon . friend and discuss that particular case . we keep look at everything we can do to support business , as we have do this entire time . I call the shadow Minister . for year people have be call on the Government to have a proper plan to help our steel industry decarbonise . instead , the industry have lurch from crisis to crisis , and now the Government be spend £ 500 million in a deal that will make thousand of Port Talbot steelworker redundant . be it not the simple truth that job and wealth will be lose because there be no comprehensive plan for steel , automotive or any industry that need to decarbonise ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous comment . the investment will provide long - term security for at least 5 , 000 steel job . we have have record investment of £ 4 billion in the auto industry this year . again , I urge she to look at her own party ' s plan . its industry decarbonisation plan be disastrous , and will push job and investment out of this country . Heat Networks if she will take step to ensure that consumer do not pay for heat network remediation . what step she be take to support heat network customer with energy bill . what assessment she have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of introduce a mandatory price cap on heat network . the Government be provide million in support for remedial work through the heat network efficiency scheme . we be support customer with their bill via the energy bill discount scheme . through the Energy Bill we will appoint Ofgem as a heat network regulator , so that customer benefit from fair price . I must declare that I live in a block with a heat network . many heat network will be quite expensive to change under the technical rule propose by the Government for 2024 . give many block have also have cladding and other pressure on leaseholder , be the Government look carefully to ensure that customer be not be overlayere with many more charge to remediate network ? through the heat network efficiency scheme , the Government be provide £ 32 million to upgrade exist heat network and reduce energy cost . the scheme will upgrade old equipment and help consumer in more than 10 , 000 house to reduce their energy use . we will shortly announce the first award from the fund . resident live in New Mill Quarter in Hackbridge in my constituency have be plague by a litany of problem since they be connect to the Sutton decentralise energy network , include an inability to change tariff . do my hon . friend agree that resident have be let down by the mismanagement identify in an independent report on its poor run by Lib Dem - run Sutton Council ? will she commit to work with I to ensure that heat network customer , who have nowhere else to go for their energy , be protect by new measure in the Energy Bill ? I know how hard my hon . friend work for his constituent and I thank he for bring this scheme to my attention . we want all heat network customer to receive a high - quality service and fair pricing , which be why we be appoint Ofgem as a regulator through the Energy Bill and currently consult on how it will operate . of course I will meet my hon . friend . many of my resident be lock into district heat network scheme . they have be pay up to 13 time more than the rest of the UK because they be not protect by the energy price cap . do the Government not think it be time to implement a mandatory price cap straight away ? at this moment in time we do not think that a uniform price cap would benefit consumer , give the huge diversity in size and scale of provider in the market . however , through the Energy Bill , the Secretary of State will have power to introduce a price cap , should one be beneficial in future . family in Fuel Poverty what estimate her Department have make of the number of family in fuel poverty . in 2022 , there be an estimate 3 . 26 million household in fuel poverty . the additional support we provide last year prevent 350 , 000 household from fall into fuel poverty in 2022 . the establish target support remain in place , while from July 2023 household energy bill have be fall . over 40 , 000 family in Bradford have be plunge into uncertainty as the Tory Government lurch from crisis to crisis . More than one in five of my constituent now live in fuel poverty , yet the Minister still come here today with no real plan or solution , and no real windfall tax on the booming profit of energy giant . let I ask the Minister to put herself in the shoe of my constituent . what do she have to say to those who , frankly , have be abandon and have to choose between a warm home , a full stomach and school uniform for their child ? have experienced fuel poverty myself when I be grow up , I do understand completely how the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent feel . that be why the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that we support people . we have give unprecedented support . we have the warm home discount and the cost of live payment , among many other measure , to help constituent through the cost of living . renewable energy sector : high - skilled job what step she be take to help promote the creation of high - skilled job in the renewable energy sector . this be a crucial area . there be already over 400 , 000 job in the renewable energy sector and that will rise steeply over time . we be invest billion in skill , include green skill and include 26 , 000 training opportunity in energy efficiency and low carbon heating . may I urge the Government to give real priority to the creation of apprenticeship in the renewable energy and green sector ? that way , we can use net zero to create great opportunity for young people and boost social mobility . as a former Education Minister , I be absolutely passionate about this area . we have deliver almost 5 . 5 million apprenticeship since 2010 . the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) chair the green job delivery group , which will publish a net zero and nature workforce action plan in the first of half of 2024 . I welcome the Secretary of State to her position . although the UK have the second large offshore wind capacity in the world after China , Denmark have three time as many job in the sector . many british wind turbine be be build in Spain , Holland and Indonesia . why be the Government so far behind the curve on the green job bonanza that be so possible for our country ? thank to Government policy and spending , we will support another 480 , 000 job in the green sector by 2030 . as I say , we be lead the way in decarbonise fast than any other G7 country , with the job that come with that right across the country . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to her place and remind she that we start in this place at the same time , four year ago . will she highlight the job opportunity in the new renewable energy sector that AI present for my constituent in Bolton ? my hon . friend raise an interesting point about the job opportunity present by AI , which will undoubtedly have an effect across the country and a beneficial effect in this sector . I would be delighted to meet he to speak about this far , but we will be set out more detail on our green job delivery group and our net zero and nature workforce action plan in the first half of 2024 . would it not boost skill in renewable energy generation and installation , as well as encourage more uptake , if all those instal solar energy scheme have to be certify under the microgeneration certification scheme so that the householder , farm or business concern would be guarantee payment for surplus energy feed into the grid ? the right hon . Gentleman ask an interesting question . we have explore his suggestion of legislate to make certification mandatory . we have no such plan at this time , as there be a mature approach to certification standard , and most UK domestic solar installation already take place within well - establish scheme . Domestic Nuclear Energy what assessment she have make of the potential contribution of great British Nuclear to domestic nuclear energy target . the british energy security strategy set out our ambition for deploy up to 24 GW of civil nuclear by 2050 . we launch Great British Nuclear to help deliver new nuclear project , start with a small modular reactor competition . the GBN offer to successful vendor will include fund to support technology development and support with access site . may I say " Croeso " and welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her place ? Wylfa be recognise as the good site for new nuclear in the UK — if not in Europe — but a Welsh Affairs Committee report state recently that ownership of the site be hold back progress . what be the Minister and great british Nuclear do to transfer its ownership from Hitachi to an active nuclear developer ? the term " doughty champion " and " passionate " be regularly throw about in this place , but when it be a case of championing Wylfa new nuclear , no one come close to my hon . friend . when launch the small modular reactor competition in July , the Secretary of State indicate that , as part of a comprehensive offer to industry , GBN would support access to site for successful vendor , and Wylfa be one of a number of site that could host civil nuclear project . however , no siting decision have be make so far . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since my appointment a fortnight ago , the Energy Bill — which will deliver cheap , clean , more secure energy — be give a Third reading in this House . we have fund a record 95 renewable energy project , and I have visit our pioneer Culham Centre for Fusion Energy . I have also launch the £ 1 billion great british insulation scheme . we have bolster our energy collaboration with Ireland and Japan , we have make our big ever climate finance pledge , and just yesterday we invite partner to invest in Sizewell C , a major component of our nuclear revival . I welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her new role . she will be aware that the huge increase in offshore wind farm in the east of England have lead to an unwelcome proposal from National Grid to put 100 mile of pylon across the area . we do not want that . we need an offshore solution . will my right hon . friend meet member from the east of England to discuss this proposal ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this issue today . I understand that concern have be raise by local community about the National Grid electricity transmission plan for network reinforcement between Norwich and Tilbury . the Minister for Nuclear and Networks , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , have visit the area and will continue to engage with colleague , but I be also happy to meet local mp to discuss the matter far . I call the shadow Minister . accord to analysis by the Resolution Foundation , more than a third of british household face high bill from the end of this month because of high standing charge and the demise of the energy bill support scheme , and the people who use the least energy , and those in the poor household , be disproportionately bad off . at the same time , the windfall tax have massive loophole cost billion . would not close those loophole and extend more help to people during the cost of living crisis be the right thing to do ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Government be raise a 75 % energy profit levy , and he will also be aware that stand charge be a matter for Ofgem . let I reiterate , however , that we be mindful of the cost of live crisis and have be provide support with the warm home discount , the £ 900 cost of live payment , and a raft of other measure to support people through this crisis . the launch last week of the great british insulation scheme be very welcome . so as to build on this and to kickstart a mass retrofitting revolution , will my hon . friend liaise with the Treasury to obtain its support for the introduction of such fiscal measure as an energy - save stamp duty and an employee benefit scheme similar to the cycle to work scheme ? the Government set the aspiration in the clean growth strategy of upgrade as many home as possible to energy performance certificate band c by 2035 , where practical , cost - effective and affordable . we remain committed to that aspiration . although tax policy sit with the Treasury , we be consider how to improve energy efficiency for owner - occupy home and plan to consult by the end of 2023 . energy company have accumulate hundred of pound , if not over £ 1 , 000 , in consumer credit . when those company go into administration , the company take over do not honour that credit and people often with very little mean have lose hundred or thousand of pound . how will the Minister ensure that they get compensation and get credit by the new company with the amount of money they have lose ? I can assure the hon . Lady that we be in constant conversation with Ofgem on such matter . although this be a matter for Ofgem , I have a regular meeting to make sure that we be on top of this . energy from waste require burn waste and it be therefore not conducive to net zero . the expansion of the Beddington incinerator in my constituency be not need to meet local demand , so can my right hon . friend assure I that the Environment Agency will take that into account before make a decision on whether or not to license ? the Environment Agency ' s recent consultation on vary the environmental permit for the Beddington energy recovery plant close on 1 September . the Environment Agency will carefully consider all relevant response and issue a final decision in due course . in the Select Committee inquiry into preparation for this winter , one of the repeat call that we have hear from expert witness be to support the vulnerable and fuel poor with a social tariff . will the Minister do that ? of course we be aware of the challenge that be face consumer this come winter , which be why we be keep the price cap as a safety net . to give the hon . Gentleman reassurance , we will be monitor the situation in case we need to look at this far . recent investment in electric vehicle charging and the EV supply chain show the benefit of the government set clear target so that the private sector have the confidence to invest . do my right hon . friend agree that if we have similar policy consistency across the whole of the economy , we would see great investment in green growth and in meet decarbonisation by 2050 ? the zero - emission vehicle mandate support our commitment to end the sale of new petrol and diesel car and van . by set it many year in advance and give clear notice to the market , it provide appropriate stimulus to industry in a way that the ultra low emission zone singularly fail to do , as my hon . friend will have note . the Energy Minister get his fact wrong in his early response to the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , so he might want to correct the record . the Liberal Democrat amendment to the Energy Bill to tackle flaring , venting and leak of methane be select for a separate vote . it would have reduce methane emission by 72 % . why do his government vote it down ? I stand correct . on that issue , we have infrastructure , some of which date from the 1970 , and we be move at the maximum possible speed . it be technologically and economically challenging to make this change , and yet , as I set out early , we be already show significant effort , and of course we be champion of the methane pledge , which we plan to exceed . when I be at COP28 , I will be urge other country to follow we in agree and support that World Bank methane pledge . the hydrogen industry will , I be sure , welcome the introduction of the hydrogen production business model for green hydrogen , with a further business model plan for next year , but the storage and transportation business model for hydrogen be not due to be finalise until 2025 . for customer of company such as Luxfer Gas Cylinders of Colwick in my gedle constituency , this be a potential barrier to some project move forward . can my right hon . friend give come clarity on the sequencing and whether there be scope to bring forward the storage and transportation business model so that the timing be join up ? my hon . friend be right to talk about the challenge of bring all the piece together to unlock opportunity . the Government will promote the whole hydrogen economy — production , demand , network and storage — and stimulate private sector investment . in August , the Government publish the low - carbon hydrogen agreement , set out the hydrogen production business model ' s term . we will award contract for that in quarter 4 of 2023 . my colleague and I be happy to meet my hon . friend to talk about make sure we get this absolutely right so that we maximise its benefit . Biodiesel producer in my constituency be be undercut by cheap chinese import because of the Government ' s decision to award they inward processing relief . this be make it difficult for we to support UK industry , so can we have an explanation for why that decision be make ? I will write to the hon . Gentleman . write for the Daily Telegraph last year , our now Prime Minister say : " on my watch , we will not lose swathe of our good farmland to solar farm . " yet the industry have not hear that , and vast swathe of farmland in my constituency , total 16 square mile , be open to planning , engulf whole village and use the good and most versatile land . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how he and the Department can ensure that the Prime Minister keep his very important promise ? I can assure my hon . friend that plan policy and the associated guidance encourage large - scale solar project to be locate on previously develop or low - value land . where greenfield site or high - grade land be use , developer be require to justify use such land and to design their project to avoid , mitigate and , where necessary , compensate for any impact . I hear my hon . friend ' s personal testimony , and I will be happy to meet she to discuss this far . almost 20 % of the housing stock in my constituency date from before 1919 and be therefore classify as historical . what plan do the Department have to improve skill level in retrofit historical residential building ? as I previously mention , retrofit be one of our most important project . of course , skill be a real issue , which be why we be delighted that this will enable we to enhance our skill basis . I welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her new role . give the vital role that oil and gas play in manage our energy security as demand continue , albeit decline , and the vital job , skill , technology and expertise in that industry , 90 % of which be think to be immediately transferrable to the renewable sector , do my right hon . friend share my disappointment at today ' s report of Humza Yousaf ' s vow to end Scotland ' s place as the oil and gas capital of Europe ? my hon . friend be right . last year we be dependent on fossil fuel for 77 % of our energy . if we import more gas from abroad , it will be in the form of liquefy natural gas , which , accord to a report from the North Sea Transition Authority two week ago , have four time the production emission of domestic gas . the Scottish National party , ably support by the Labour party , want to threaten 200 , 000 job , £ 50 billion of tax revenue over the next five year , and the very subsea engineering and technological capability — not to mention the balance sheet — that we need to develop hydrogen , carbon capture , usage and storage , and the rest of the transition . it be madness , and it be the policy of the SNP . yes , we need increase electric arc capacity to reprocess more scrap steel in the UK , but Trostre tinplate packaging work in my constituency need a grade of steel that can be produce only by the blast furnace process , until green production technology be develop . with 23 such project elsewhere in Europe , will the Secretary of State commit to invest in develop these technology at Port Talbot , thus reduce emission and keep job in Port Talbot and Llanelli ? I share the hon . Lady ' s enthusiasm for keep those job , which be why we be invest hundred of million of pound to ensure that these industry can make that transition . I entirely agree with she on the importance of innovation and make sure it be embed so that not only do we sustain those industry but so that , through innovation , we can strengthen they in the year ahead . a decade ago , the onshore wind industry commit to a community benefit protocol to provide compensation of £ 5 , 000 per MW instal per annum to community for the duration of a wind scheme . so far , solar developer have refuse to do something similar , and surely that be not fair . do my right hon . friend agree that compensation scheme must be equal , whether wind or solar be involve ? it be perhaps typical of my hon . friend that not only be she ask a question and champion this issue , but she have schedule a meeting with I immediately afterwards . I look forward to discuss this with she and make sure that we have the most coherent position possible as to where we be set on rewarding community that host transmission infrastructure and other part of our transition . I look forward to have that conversation with she in the come minute . my constituent Lee Haywood be on a communal heat network , and he and his neighbour see their price per kWh double last winter . what protection can the Minister give as we come into the next winter , as resident in Dalmarnock be really worried that price will again soar in this unregulated area ? we have put in place protection to ensure that price be not go to go up ; we have the energy price guarantee . in addition , let I point out that price be come down . do the Government think the UK be on track to meet the 2050 net zero target ? do the Government think the UK will meet that target ? do the Government even really care ? we have , of course , meet all our carbon budget to date . in the progress report , the Climate Change Committee say it have increase confidence in our meeting carbon budget 4 and , yes , this country will meet its net zero target by 2050 . it will do so in line with the advice that we be give , and I be proud of the fact — the hon . Gentleman could share this with his constituent , who may be concern otherwise — that this country have cut its emission by more than any other major economy on earth , thank to the policy of this Government . this morning , I receive a text from one of the leadership team at one of our local hospice . it say that " there have be no additional support for our energy cost . cost have go up while statutory support hasn ' t change . . . Hospices UK lobby for additional support … to no avail … we operate 24 / 7 and have to keep the heating on — you know what the weather be like in Cumbria in the winter ! " when will the Minister come up with a bespoke support scheme for our vital hospice ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the meeting we have have , and I be mindful of the situation that hospice face . we have give support and I will make sure that I keep monitor the situation . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in the exchange about the amendment on flare just now , I do not think I hear the Minister formally withdraw his accusation that I get my fact wrong , and I certainly do not hear he apologise . give that he have now accept that he get his fact wrong and my fact be right , I would love he to formally correct the record and perhaps even to apologise as well . rise — the Minister be desperate to do so . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . the hon . Lady be quite right to raise this in that way , and I be happy both to withdraw that and to apologise to she for get my fact wrong on that occasion . School Building Closures ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on the number of school affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and the impact of build closure on child ' s learn . as I say in my statement to the House on 4 September , this Government be support affect school and college to minimise disruption to education . I thank headteacher , staff , local authority and trust who continue to provide face - to - face education to their pupil . two week ago , we publish a list of education setting with building affect by RAAC . before I provide an update , I want to reiterate that our view be that parent and child should find out from their school , not from a list on a Government website or from the medium . our approach have always prioritise that , give school and college the space to focus on what be important : minimise disruption to education . none the less , we recognise the public interest . on 6 September we publish a list of 147 education setting know to be affect by RAAC . thank to the hard work of school and college leader , all of those setting be now offer face - to - face education , with 126 setting offer full - time face - to - face education to all pupil . we have today publish an update list include a further 27 setting with confirm RAAC . of the 174 confirm case , 148 setting be provide full - time face - to - face education to all pupil . as I have say before , we will do everything in our power to support school and college in respond to RAAC in their building . every school or college with confirm RAAC be assign a dedicated support from our team of 80 caseworker . a bespoke plan be put in place to ensure they receive the support that suit their circumstance . project delivery team be on site to provide support , whether that be order or find alternative accommodation option or put in place structural solution . we will fund these mitigation , include instal alternative classroom space . where school and college make reasonable request for additional help with revenue cost , such as transport to location , those will be approve . we will also fund long - term refurbishment or rebuilding project to permanently remove RAAC , through capital grant or rebuilding project through the school rebuilding programme . I want to reassure pupil , parent and staff that this Government will do whatever it take to support our school and college , to keep everybody safe , to respond to RAAC and to minimise disruption to education . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . before I go any far , let I emphasise that the safety of child should rightly be the priority of every Member of this House . however , the question today be not simply about whether that should be our priority , but about the colossal shamble of a Secretary of State who , as we learn from the Education Committee this morning , do not merely sit on new advice about the safety of school building , which she receive on 21 August , but do nothing for four day . and then she act decisively — she go on holiday for the good part of a week . some 10 day pass from the day she receive the crucial advice to the day the headteacher be tell to close their school , cause chaos for parent . just a fortnight ago , the Secretary of State ' s response to question about the management of the Department ' s own building be simple and proud , the motto she have make she own : " nothing to do with I " . she have do a " good job " , while other have be sit on their backside . do the Secretary of State still think that be good enough ? more simply , even under this Prime Minister , weak as he be , and this Government , how on earth do she think she could get away with go on holiday rather than take any form of action at all ? will she at last take responsibility for 13 year of failure , three week of chaos and the year stretch ahead of the child who be sit under steel girder ? when will all our child be back in their own school and classroom ? parent , family , staff and , above all , our child deserve answer , and they deserve well from this government and well than this Secretary of State . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as soon as we have information , we take a decision in every case . when we first see the incident in 2018 , we take a decision and we put out new guidance and warning . we put out new guidance in 2021 - 22 . we start survey directly in 2022 , when the previous Secretary of State start to get more concerned about RAAC in our school estate . we then send in surveyor directly , because the responsible body be not move quickly enough . let I turn now to the initial advice . three new case emerge over the summer , and some be subject to advice , as the hon . Lady say , which come on 21 August . I instruct those involve to get more technical information . the last case be really what tip we into make a decision . it be a very difficult decision — I be not sure the hon . Lady would have make it because labour do not tend to make these difficult decision , and the Labour Government in Wales have still not do so — because of the impact on child and because of the impact on our school leader and teacher . the last case , which be in another school setting in England , take place on 24 August . we go to investigate that to see what have happen . on my own decision , I go abroad because that be the first time that I could go abroad . I go abroad for my father ' s birthday , know that I would still be chair the meeting , which I do on Saturday , Sunday and Monday , and then I make the decision — as we have now make a decision — to come back from holiday immediately . my return be delay by one day because of the air traffic control incident , so I get back to announce the decision on Thursday . when I look at the new case , I say that we need to get technical evidence . the second thing I say be that we need to operationalise this . I know that this would be difficult . I do not want to put school in a position where , if I put out a notice via the medium or directly , they would be leave with the problem . I want to stand up caseworker . I want to stand up portacabin . I want to speak to utility company to make sure that everything would be in place so that we could minimise the length of time that it take to put up those portacabin . I want to put more structural engineering company in place , because I know that we would do more survey . I also want to make sure that we have a nationwide prop company , so that we could put the largely horizontal structural solution in place to fix everything . when we have to make a major decision , there be no point create more issue than we need to . we need to operationalise that decision , which be what I decide to do . the time from the last case to the announcement be one week . that be probably one of the quick decision that most people have make in this House and we operationalise it , all while I be still work , as I always do . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I be grateful to the Minister with responsibility for the school system and the permanent secretary for spend two hour this morning with the Education Committee on this issue . they be able to provide a number of useful answer , include on the provision of temporary classroom . I have to say that I be very disappointed last night to receive what be a non - answer on that question about temporary classroom , which have already be ask at the Public Accounts Committee . I be glad that Baroness Barran be able to go far with the Select Committee today . the information that she provide we with be that there be seven case from before the summer require temporary building . the Department be now aware of 29 school that will require some form of temporary accommodation . eleven have that temporary accommodation in place . as of Friday , there be the potential for as many as 180 single classroom and 68 double classroom to be need as temporary accommodation . I urge the Secretary of State to ensure that those be provide as swiftly as possible and that school and responsible body have certainty about when those will be in place , so that we absolutely do what she say — to minimise disruption of child ' s education . a key concern of the Select Committee be child not in school , and anything that can be do to minimise that disruption , to create great certainty for the teacher and the leader who have do such an amazing job of respond to this , will certainly be welcome . I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Education Committee . I apologise about the write answer the previous night ; we have more recent information at the Education Committee . the case be always be assess and the number be always be update , which be why we choose a date to publish the late information . the number be move very quickly . he be absolutely right : 11 RAAC school already have temporary building that be instal or in use . there be a further 28 site , I think , that have make inquiry and request potential order . as he rightly say , there be 180 single classroom , 68 double classroom , plus a mixture of toilet provision . on the portacabin , I would just like to say that I have be to a number of these school and meet the child . at the first school I visit , the child be all petition I to stay in the portacabin , because they actually prefer they to the classroom . the portacabin be very high quality — [ interruption . ] that be true . I advise the shadow Secretary of State to visit some of they herself . perhaps the Secretary of State could clarify whether it be 18 or 28 school that still need temporary classroom , because we have hear different figure from she and from her ministerial colleague at the Education Committee early . something headteacher have say to I be that they do not just need the temporary classroom , but they need some of they kitte out as science lab or design and technology classroom , for example . there be a cost to do that . it be not just a question of chair and table ; it be much more . what be her Department do to make sure that child have the right classroom so they can do their assessment , which be already tick along towards next year ' s exam ? I confirm that the project director and caseworker have make inquiry request potential order for a further 28 site . there be some specialist requirement for science lab or other specialist equipment , and there be a number of thing take place on that . school be share science lab equipment in the short term , either with another school or with another part of the school . we be also look at mitigation . in the school I go to see where the child be very happy in their portacabin , they have horizontally prop and mitigate the science lab first , so they be able to use the science lab in combination with the portacabin . there be also specialist portacabin available , which be be look at in specific circumstance . I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for Schools for all their hard work , but I ask the Secretary of State to do something from the Dispatch Box . Haygrove School in my constituency be a disaster of construction . it be a Caledonian Modular construction and it have go badly wrong . will she please reiterate from that Dispatch Box that this be nothing to do with concrete , but be rather about bad construction ? child and parent be still worried that there be concrete in the school , and there be not . could she please reconfirm that ? I confirm that Haygrove School be not subject to RAAC . it be a Caledonian Modular build , and we be look at the quality of a small number of those school . we be work right now on what solution we can put in place . there be another such school in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , and we be put temporary school structure in place for those school . the crumble concrete crisis have be year in the making , exacerbate by the catastrophic failure of the Prime Minister , when he be Chancellor , to sign off on the school rebuilding programme that Department for Education official request . yet the current Chancellor , as we have hear today , will not give the Department any new money to fix the roof . so what do the Secretary of State say to the hundred of school currently manage asbestos , leaky roof and cold classroom , which will be put to the back of the queue for a rebuild yet again because the Treasury still do not understand the importance of invest in our child and education ? as someone who have be the Secretary of State since October and have secure record funding for our school — go up to £ 60 billion a year next year , which be high than it have ever be by any measure hon . member wish to use — I feel that the Chancellor and the Prime Minister very much invest in our school . there have be a lot of nonsense talk about Building Schools for the Future . opposition member consistently claim that that would have fix the issue . I know they be not normally across the detail , so I think they might be interested in a few fact . Park View School in Tottenham , which be recently visit by the Leader of the Opposition , Hornsey School for Girls in Hornsey and Stepney all Saints School in Stepney Green be all refurbish or rebuild under BSF , but all three be still suffer from RAAC . the opposition do not even know how to solve the problem when it be right in front of their nose . my right hon . friend have be absolutely right to act decisively to put the safety of child first . as the list of affected school have grow today , what reassurance can she give we on the number of school still await expedite survey and the absolute cut - off point by which those survey will be complete ? last time I be at this Dispatch Box , 95 % of all questionnaire have be respond to . now it be 98 . 6 % , so the publicity have really help to drive people who have not already respond , and we be grateful to they . I also commit that all the school that be wait to be survey would be survey by the end of this week , and I can confirm that that will absolutely be do . we have a good rate of survey ; we have eight company do they and we now have a process that mean that as soon school come in , we will get to they very quickly to survey . I have a straightforward question for the Secretary of State that I hope she will answer clearly . will she guarantee that the cost of all the repair will be fund by new money from the Government , not the current education budget , which be not enough anyway ? as I think I have explain before , there be different part to the funding . initially , the surveying work , the mitigation work and the temporary accommodation will all be fund by the DFE ' s capital budget — we have a budget for that work . there be also revenue budget for additional thing such as transport , hire a village hall and so on — that will also come from a building fund within the DFE . we have already announce some of the school rebuilding project , but we have space leave and some be still to be announce , so some of that will be utilise . beyond that , as the Chancellor say , we will do everything need to keep child safe in our school . I put on record my admiration for Mrs Sudworth , Tania Lewyckyj and Canon Slade School for their monumental effort to ensure the smooth running of the school since the RAAC announcement . will my right hon . friend outline how the Department can encourage surveyor who have concern about building contain asbestos to help avoid delay in the installation of temporary classroom ? I join my hon . friend in praise the team at Canon Slade School , who have all pupil in face - to - face education . the vast majority of school identify as have RAAC have all pupil in face - to - face learning , and that be down to the dedication of our school leader . all school have an asbestos plan , but if there be asbestos that need to be move as part of the mitigation work , it will be safely remove . how many publicity video for party political purpose do the Secretary of State make for conservative mp on the day that she find out about the RAAC issue ? I do not recall make any particularly party political broadcast . on the day when we make the announcement , I do the evening round and the pooled clip and recording , and the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , then do the morning round . that be the focus of our attention in term of publicity . the National Audit Office report of 28 June be , of course , agree with the Department , as all NAO report be . give that that report identify that up to 700 , 000 child be in school where there be critical safety issue , what be the technical evidence that the Secretary of State say she require some two month later , when that final school collapse in the way it do ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that very good question . the NAO report address bid to , and demand for , the school rebuilding programme . on the technical information , what we have do during the survey — [ interruption . ] if he care to listen , there be an important distinction . the survey that we start conduct from September 2022 , when we send our own surveyor into school , look at RAAC and whether it be critical or non - critical . that be why 52 school have already be close immediately : they be see as critical . what change be that there be three instance where the ceiling have be assess as non - critical but have fail . I want structural engineer — I be not a structural engineer — to go in and tell I whether something assess as non - critical have fail for another reason . could they say why it have fail , or do I need to look at every non - critical roof and change my understanding of how we want to treat they ? I want to be cautious . that be what we do , and as a result , we decide to act on all the non - critical ceiling straight away to keep people safe . half an hour ago , I come from a meeting with London fire chief , who be call for a national register of building contain RAAC . that be a practical ask — will the Secretary of State work with other Departments to ensure that it become a reality ? I think the fire chief usually work with local responsible body to find out how they can minimise fire risk within a local area . if I may , Mr Speaker , I will put four question to the Secretary of State , because the pupil , parent and staff of St Leonard ' s Catholic School deserve answer . first , can we confirm that the plan rebuild of St Leonard ' s will now be accelerate ? secondly , when will the venue for rehome St Leonard ' s be confirm and the finance approve ? thirdly , what additional financial and practical provision will be in place for the most vulnerable pupil , particularly those with special educational need and disability and those receive free school meal ? fourthly , what option for special consideration will exam board apply to year 11 and year 13 student this year ? I be delighted that St Leonard ' s now have a mix of face - to - face and remote learning — it have do a fantastic job to enable that , work with local partner . on school rebuilding , we be make those decision with the project director we have on site at St Leonard ' s . we will consider first the short - term and medium - term mitigation , and then when we should do the rebuilding . we have an mps surgery later for anybody in the House to raise specific case that they be interested in ; I shall be there with my Ministers and official , and we be happy to go into detail on any case and give member the late . it be still an evolve situation , but we will be there and will support St Leonard ' s as much as possible to ensure that child be safely educate there . I be sure that all the people the Secretary of State tell to get off their backside will be very sympathetic to the fact that she need to go on holiday while this crisis be in progress . on revenue and cost , the Secretary of State have itemise a number of thing that the Government will cover , but school face a vast range of potential revenue cost , include surveyor and other cost . be she say that all cost relate to RAAC will be cover ? yes , all the cost that the hon . gentleman mention be reasonable cost . also , I be sure that he be delighted that all the pupil at St Thomas More Catholic Comprehensive School be in face - to - face education . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about my working , I be always happy to work , no matter where I be , and I always have be throughout my very long career . Ellesmere Port Catholic High School have huge challenge : five classroom , the chapel , two corridor , change facility , kitchen and canteen have be close , mean that a number of technical lesson can not be teach and no hot food can be serve . I have a direct plea from the headteacher , who say : " I can not understate the urgency of this situation , particularly with the temporary accommodation . we be have real issue get the Department to approve mitigation so that we can operate for all our student in the short term . " after this statement , will the Secretary of State have a look at this case and talk to official about get the approval that that headteacher need ? absolutely . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that case ; I will take a note of Ellesmere Port Catholic High School . if he would like to join the mps surgery later , we can go through that matter in great detail , or I can write to he about it if his diary do not allow that . may I press the Secretary of State on the source of the fund need to rebuild the RAAC school ? I ask because repair to RAAC hospital be come from delay indefinitely other hospital rebuilding scheme , include two in my constituency . will any future school capital project be similarly reschedule ? no . Colyton Grammar School in my corner of Devon be one of the 27 school add today to the list of 147 school already know to have RAAC on site . the National Association of Head Teachers have point out that prop up ceiling with metal pole be clearly not a serious option . I want Colyton Grammar School to be able to open up the small part of its estate that have have to close , but if there be new money , and work will not impact on the exist school rebuilding programme , what impact can we expect they to have on funding pledge last year to school such as Tipton St John Primary School and Tiverton High School ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be do a very professional job . there be no intention of prop school up with metal pole ; they will largely be horizontal prop involve temper beam , which be how building be build in the first place — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) show her absolute ignorance of this . they will be either steel structure or wooden structure that will then have another roof underneath . I urge everybody to go and look at these classroom , because they will see that there be no vertical propping — not in any of the school that I have see so far — and that be certainly not a long - term solution . the hon . Gentleman will be satisfied that these be very high - quality solution for our child . while the dust have settle on medium coverage at this time , I thank the Secretary of State for her clear commitment and positivity today in find a way forward . we understand that there might be some online learning , as experience during covid , but that can lead to detrimental effect on learn give the importance of face - to - face engagement . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Department in Northern Ireland to gauge the depth of the concrete problem ? there be a school in my constituency , but I understand that it have be able to sort out the problem and teaching in school have continue . it be important to know whether any extra funding be available , however , and if so , would that be subject to the Barnett consequential so we can also get some benefit ? immediately when we have more information we share it with the devolved nation . we have be conduct survey for over a year at that point but it be clear that that be not happen in the devolved nation so they be still not able to identify where the RAAC be and go on to take the action that we take very decisively at the end of last month . we will continue to work with they and support they , and to share evidence , include on how to mitigate in a way that make good solution for our child . West Coast Main Line Franchise 1 . 2 pm ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if he will make a statement on the contractual and operational situation of the west coast main line franchise — and I congratulate the Minister on his promotion . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his congratulation . the Minister of State , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , continue to represent his Majesty ' s Government today in Poland to support UK train company , among other , at a major international trade fair , and I be therefore reply on his behalf . the Department have award a new national rail contract to First Trenitalia to continue to operate the west coast partnership , provide west coast train service as Avanti West Coast . the national rail contract will have a core term of three year and a maximum possible term of nine year . after three year the Department can terminate the contract at any point with three month ' notice . in October 2022 and March 2023 the Department approve the award of short - term contract to First Trenitalia operate as AWC to continue to operate service on the west coast main line . award short - term contract allow the Department to monitor progress by AWC in improve performance follow the withdrawal of rest day work before consider whether it would be appropriate to award a long - term contract . Avanti ' s performance have improve significantly during this time , and take into account other relevant consideration , the Secretary of State have decide to award a long - term contract , as announce in today ' s write statement . over recent month Avanti have make significant progress in recover from the poor reliability and punctuality deliver in the latter half of last year . in line with its recovery plan and since the introduction of its recovery timetable in December 2022 , performance have steadily improve , with cancellation attribute to AWC fall from 13 % in early January 2023 to as low as 1 . 1 % in July 2023 . over 90 % of train now arrive within 15 minute of their schedule time , an improvement from 75 % in December 2022 . another day , another blow for passenger who use the west coast main line . fresh from the negative cross - party reaction yesterday to news that High Speed 2 phase 2 be on the chop block , we have the Department for Transport on the last day before recess — shock , horror — sneak out the extraordinary award of up to nine year for Avanti West Coast and up to eight year for CrossCountry . despite improvement in Avanti ' s service , it be still not run a full timetable , and the Minister can not ask we and passenger up and down the west coast main line to simply forget the last few year of horrendous performance . the Avanti service be on the brink , run into the ground by mismanagement and poor labour relation . in his letter to mps the Secretary of State say that " Avanti be the most improved operator where performance be compare to the previous year . " well , that would not be particularly hard — talk about set yourself a low bar . this award will be see by most people as rewarding failure . my criticism of Avanti be in no way reflective of the staff , who have be first class when I have use the service . I be not overwhelm with confidence , however , when it take I several attempt at last week ' s Select Committee to get Mr Mellors to tell I just how many job he propose to cut by close the Glasgow ticket office . give the variable standard deliver by Avanti , we need full transparency . so can the Minister tell I the exact criterion Avanti will have to consistently meet if the extension at the end of the core contract be to be grant ? what engagement have the Department for Transport have with trade union and the Scottish Government in make this decision ? what alternative do the Department consider ? be the operator of last resort consider ? do the Minister not understand that this award will be see as Tory " private good " dogma ? we have pile of evidence through the operator of last resort and Scotrail that publicly own and operate railway work . moreover , with its stake in Avanti , First Trenitalia might well be able to reinvest in italian rail infrastructure . be it not time to follow Scotland ' s lead and put our railway back into the public sector , where it belong ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his flurry of question , and I shall address what he say . he ask for the release of the criterion of the contract award ; that be a commercial matter and we be not go to discuss that , but I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that the Minister of State my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle have meet very regularly with the entire industry and have be work on a weekly basis with official and with Avanti , and therefore have have the matter very much in hand . on the performance the hon . Gentleman describe , I be astounded that he be not agree with the Secretary of State and celebrate the improvement over the last nine month , and six month in particular : cancellation be as low as 1 . 1 % in July ; 90 % of train arrive within 15 minute ; over 100 additional driver have be train and bring on since April 2022 . each of those be a significant achievement . it be all very well for the hon . gentleman to talk about engagement , but the hon . Gentleman have not exactly be shy in write to the Department , so I ask my official to scan the letter we have receive and I do not think there be a single one from he in the last year mention Avanti . if that be an indication of how content he be with the service , I be delighted to hear it . I call the Select Committee Chair . as a regular user of Avanti service , I agree that the performance have improve markedly and I pay tribute to the new manage director , Andy Mellors , and his team for turn around what be an abysmal service . I appreciate that the Minister will not be able to talk in detail about the contract , but will he say a bit about the extent to which this new contract move away from the micromanage national rail contract that have be in place since covid ? they be right at the time , but be now stifle innovation in the sector and I hope that this be just the first of the revision of these national rail contract . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question ; he bring not just personal experience of this service as an MP for Milton Keynes but also his considerable expertise as Chairman of the Transport Committee . he be right to pick up on the point of micromanagement , and that be one reason why , have be in a period of relatively short contract — a number of two - month and three - month contract — in order to monitor progress , the Government have now see fit to move to a much long framework : a three - year contract but with the potential capacity to terminate thereafter if performance be not sustain . that strike the right balance between give the certainty Avanti need to continue to invest in improve the service and the accountability that the Government rightly demand . I would add that there be some awareness that in relation to service to Milton Keynes , west midland and north Wales there be progress to be make , and I think I be right in say that the new chief executive be very much focused on that issue as well . I call the shadow Minister . for the second time in two day , the Government have be drag to the House to explain the state of our crumble rail network , and for the second time in two day , the rail Minister have fail to turn up . surely thing can not get any bad for passenger in the north , we think , but today , the Minister have prove we all wrong by confirm that passenger could have to suffer up to nine more year of Avanti West Coast and up to eight more year of CrossCountry . the Minister claim that there have be enough improvement to justify up to a decade more of the utter chaos that be consume our railway thank to those two fail operator , yet the late statistic show that Avanti be the second bad operator in the country for punctuality last month , with only 46 % of its train run on time . CrossCountry be the fourth bad , with only 49 % of its train on time . what be the Government ' s response to that ? More lucrative contract and million of pound pay out in performance bonus . these decision have leave glare question for the Minister to answer . what performance metric be consider when the Government make these decision ? have performance payment be restructure in the new contract , or will they continue to reward failure ? do the Government consider the operator of last resort , which have drive improvement on other line ? the country be tired of this cycle of failure , with cancellation and delay , and any prospect of reform kick into the long grass . it be clear that this Government be determined to run our rail network into the ground . be their plan really to allow for rail service to have another decade of failure under the Tories , with hundred of million hand over to shareholder in performance bonus and fee ? if so , it be clear that they be out of idea and out of time . if they can not put passenger first , be it not time for they to step aside and let we deliver the change our passenger so desperately need ? I thank the hon . member for that brave shot . let I just remind he that , far from be drag to the House , the Government publish a write ministerial statement and a press release this morning . not only that , but to the extent that the Government be drag to the House , it be by the Scottish National party . this be the second time in two day that the Labour party have be catch nap by another party in this House . as to the availability of the rail Minister , we try to pay total football in the Department for Transport . while Cruyff be hare down one wing , we expect Neeskens to be play through the centre , and that be how we think about these thing . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the previous underperformance , but he be entirely wrong to predict that that will continue , because we see the evidence in front of we . as I have already say , cancellation have be as low as 1 . 1 % in July , and over 90 % of train be now arrive within 15 minute of their schedule time . that be part of the basis on which the Secretary of State have decide to award this new contract . if the alternative that the Labour party be propose be the nationalisation of our railway , I look forward to see the budgetary implication of that , let alone any justification that civil servant direct by Labour Ministers would do a well job than this new professional team at Avanti . while I appreciate the point that the rail replacement Minister make about recent improvement in Avanti , do my right hon . friend accept that the failure of Avanti in recent year have lead to consumer vote with their foot and refuse to use Avanti service where they can ? in the case of passenger travel from Birmingham to London , they have be come on to the chiltern line instead , which be add to the overcrowding on that line . what reassurance can he give that there be incentive in the new contract for Avanti to win back that trust , so that we be not maintain overcrowding on other railway such as Chiltern ? with my hon . friend ' s minutiose attention to detail , he will recognise that yesterday we have the rail replacement bus Minister , but today we have another rail replacement Minister . that be thoroughly in order . as regard the effect on customer , again , my hon . friend be spot on . it be very noticeable how much the new team at Avanti recognise the commercial challenge of woo back customer they have lose follow the disastrous underperformance of last year , which they recognise , understand and accept . that be a vital commercial challenge . we judge that they be begin to meet that and do more than begin to meet that as a matter of service . there be much furth to go as regard the extension of the quality of the service . they recognise that , and that be all in the interest of customer and well customer experience . it seem that this contract have be award on the basis that it be a little less crap than it use to be . be that really the way to make a decision in Government ? the Office of Rail and Road statistic in August show that Avanti be the second worst perform operator , with only 48 % of train run on time . that be not good enough . I speak as someone who be a customer , and I speak on behalf of my constituent in the north . it be appalling . this be ideologically , dogmatically drive . it be a nonsense . the hon . member ' s use of choice parliamentary or possibly unparliamentary language be not something I would want to repeat , even if I think it be accurate . it be important for he to recognise the progress that have be make . if he do not recognise that , that be a pity , because there be a very considerable improvement . the question now for the House and for Government be how to sustain and enhance that improvement in the long term . the judgment have be make that a long - term contract will give the stability in which the company can invest for the betterment of traveller , and that be to everyone ' s advantage . it pain I to say it , but I have to tell my right hon . friend that the decision his Department have make today will be very badly receive in north Wales . North Wales passenger have have to endure a substandard service from Avanti for far too long . the prime example of that be this summer — at the height of the holiday season , which be so important to north Wales — when Avanti decide to cut four service and provide virtually no through service from London to the region . can my right hon . Friend assure the House that his Department will be keep a very close eye on Avanti ' s performance in north Wales over the come month and year and that , if necessary , it will terminate the franchise that have be confirm today ? I completely understand the concern that my right hon . friend describe . as he will be aware , in many of these individual case , problem lie at the network level , or be a result of driver shortage or other reason , as well as underperformance by the company , but I absolutely recognise — and Avanti recognise — the point he raise . the answer be that , of course , the Department will remain very firmly focused on continue to hold this company to account for the delivery of service and the continued improvement of those service . once again , we find that Transport Ministers can not even find friend on their own Benches for these decision . People in my constituency and in the north of England will be astonish at the decision to reimpose Avanti because of its systematic failure . the Minister do not answer the question he be just ask . will the Government guarantee that they will cancel Avanti ' s contract if , once again , it be the poster boy for failure ? that be not the question I be ask ; I do answer the question that be ask . it be build into the new contract structure that , after the initial period , which allow for the investment that be require to continue to make sustained improvement , there be a recur three - month capacity to call in the contract as require , precisely in order to exercise the kind of scrutiny and accountability that the hon . Gentleman be seek . I be a regular user of the west coast main line , and the improvement in both punctuality and reliability over recent month have be welcome . the Minister will be aware of the ongoing capacity issue at Preston station that be compromise potential improvement across Lancashire , such as the creation of a pass loop on the South Fylde line , which would double the number of train come into Blackpool South every single hour . can the Minister raise that issue with departmental colleague , so that we can hopefully break the logjam and create the condition for improvement in localise service in Lancashire ? I thank my hon . friend for his positive remark , which give the lie to the previous comment make directly . I can assure he that the Government be focused and will remain available to discuss and consider that point . can I also reiterate and double down on a point that I make early ? one of the function of be able to provide a long contract be to allow the introduction of more fleet and , in particular , a brand - new fleet of electric and bi - mode Hitachi train to replace the current diesel fleet . we expect that there will be sustain improvement at the level of roll stock as well as at the level of service provision . judge by their appearance in the Chamber , I guess that the ministerial team be just like Avanti : delay or cancel . yes , the service have improve , but from such a low level , and it be still a woeful service . do the Minister truly believe that this be a good outcome for passenger ? I be not sure what the hon . Gentleman be refer to , since the Minister be on time . I will not say that it be an improved service over the normal one , but it be hopefully an adequate replacement . of course , the Government stand behind this decision . a process of care and attention have be give weekly to the performance of the company , and separately to the contract grant . it have be do with great attention to detail , as the hon . Gentleman would expect . Holyhead be the second busy roll - on roll - off port in the UK and , with Anglesey ' s new freeport status , we be at the beginning of our economic renaissance . as such , it be vital that we have connectivity , particularly now that the Labour Government in Cardiff will not agree to a third Menai crossing . how be minister go to ensure that Avanti deliver a reliable service with direct train from Holyhead to Euston for my Ynys M ô n constituent , many of whom share their frustration with the rail Minister when he visit Anglesey in the summer ? it speak very well of the rail Minister that he do visit , and engage with my hon . friend and her constituent — I think that be absolutely right . she ask how it will be do : it will be do by provide a contractual framework in which there can be more investment ; by bring on 100 more driver ; by recognise that there be considerable scope for further improvement in the service , to north Wales in particular ; and by improvement in roll stock . all of that will make for a well service . datum show that the number of train cancel across the rail network continue to rise and be at the high level since record begin in 2014 . the Minister keep refer to July ' s figure , know full well just how bad August ' s be — in fact , statistic show that train in Ukraine be run more reliably than our service here , despite that country ' s network clearly be under considerably great pressure . these problem do not stop with Avanti : persistent issue on the west coast main line have a knock - on impact on any east - west service cross that line . when will the Minister accept that the current system be simply not work ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that there be knock - on effect and that some of those effect bear on east - west service . that be one of the reason that the Department have separately announce and negotiate a national rail contract for CrossCountry as a rail operator , in order to provide a framework for stable further investment in those knock - on service . I declare an interest as a long - suffer user of the Avanti service on the west coast main line . in 2021 - 22 , Avanti have the most customer complaint of any operator and it be consistently rate one of the worst - perform operator on the rail network . despite that , Ministers spend an eye - water £ 4 million of taxpayer ' money in bonus to company executive for customer experience and act as a good operator . can the Minister explain when it become Government policy to reward failure ? the hon . Lady be deliberately draw on statistic from before the recent improvement that the Government be recognise in this contract award . however , there be a further point : it be of course right to raise individual item , but we ought to get away from a situation in which politician feel that they can micromanage and second - guess decision make by people at the operating level . the key thing be to make sure that the quality of management be in place to drive continue , sustained improvement , as we expect it now be with the new chief executive , Mr Mellors . as a regular user , I recognise that the Avanti service have improve in recent month — although frankly , it would have be hard for it to get much bad — but give the sustained poor performance in the past and the August performance figure we have just hear about , this contract award feel very premature . would it not have be well to wait and ensure that we see prove , sustained improvement from Avanti before award such a long contract ? of course , a variety of consideration sit around any contract award . the attraction of this one be that it allow the most rapid possible progress on fleet improvement and support for the new management team that might be expect . as the hon . Gentleman would imagine , the Secretary of State have spend a considerable amount of time talk to the new management to make sure that they really be focus on improvement , and to hear in detail what their plan for that improvement be . the award be make in part on that basis . this decision be as embarrassing as it be baffle . the Minister talk about improvement , but my constituent have not see those improvement . he talk about reduce the number of cancellation : with Avanti have cancel half of the service from Chester directly to London , that will obviously reduce the number of cancellation . yesterday , for example , Avanti start a train from Crewe rather than from Chester . that presumably do not count as a cancellation , but that be absolutely no consolation to someone in Chester . it seem to I that the Government know that the company be play with the figure and be prepared to accept a second - class service for the people of the north . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . it be fair to say that , from day to day , there be different issue that interrupt a good service . as I have already say , those relate not just to the availability of driver and other key staff , but to underperformance from time to time and disruption to Network Rail infrastructure . all of those thing can play their role in a highly integrate network . the right hon . member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) and I have work for many year on the issue surround rail connectivity cover Chester and north Wales and , since I arrive in this House in December , I have not see any improvement . the Minister talk about micromanage situation , but the reality be that the Government do not seem to have understand what happen to Chester and north Wales during the summer . as the right hon . Member say , the decision be take to cancel through train , which fundamentally affect tourism and the visitor economy , not just for Chester but across north Wales . to be honest , that smack of game the figure , and my constituent and resident across north Wales be absolutely stagger that this contract have be re - award to Avanti West Coast . I simply do not understand that . this be so business - critical and important to local resident and there have be a failure to take into account the reality of travel across Cheshire and north Wales . the hon . Lady do not ask a question , but I understand every word of her speech . since she be new to the House , she might want to have a conversation directly with the rail Minister about this : he be highly engaged on these issue , as colleague across the Chamber will know . if she have not see any improvement in relation to her constituency , at least she have the satisfaction of know that improvement have be recognise around the House . the Government have ensure the immediate future of Avanti West Coast , but the same can not be say for Great British Railways , which have an office but no power . we urgently need a body to provide oversight and accountability to fix Britain ' s break railway . the Government be in favour of that , so can the Minister confirm that legislation to create Great British Railways will be announce in the King ' s Speech ? I thank the hon . Lady for her tempting invitation , but I be not go to second - guess his Majesty on what he will announce in the King ' s Speech . what I can say be that this be a topic of great interest to the Government and , as she will know , the Department be make considerable progress in the non - legislative mode that we be in at the moment to achieve many of the goal we all share . Avanti manufacturing director , Andy Mellors , tell the Transport Committee that Avanti would be cut staff at Glasgow Central station by more than a third and close its ticket office . why do a company that deliver such a poor and expensive service , and that hold its customer in such contempt , deserve to have its contract renew , potentially for almost a decade ? what I recall from that hearing be that Mr Mellors say 1 % of the ticket at Glasgow be sell through the ticket office , that there would be a full staff in front of the ticket office , that those staff would work from the first train in the morning until the last train at the end of the day and that they would continue to accept cash . that sound like quite a good service offer to I . I thank the Minister for respond to the urgent question . resettlement of Afghans since June 2021 , around 24 , 600 people from Afghanistan have be safely relocate to the United Kingdom . we owe they a debt of gratitude , and in return our offer have be generous . the UK Government have grant all Afghans relocate through safe and legal route indefinite leave to remain , include the immediate right to work , alongside access to the benefit system and vital health , education and employment support . give the unprecedented speed and scale of the 2021 evacuation , we warmly welcome our afghan friend into temporary hotel accommodation until settle accommodation could be find . however , bridge hotel be not , and be never design to be , a permanent solution . indeed , in a statement to this House in March , I make it clear that it be unjustifiable for around a third of those relocate from Afghanistan still to be live in costly bridging accommodation up to 18 month after arrive to safety in the UK . long - term residency in hotel prevent some family from properly put down root and be cost UK taxpayer £ 1 million a day . that be not sustainable . that be why , at the end of April , we begin issue notice to quit to the 8 , 000 individual who remain in bridge accommodation , make it clear that access to costly hotel would end follow a minimum three - month notice period and encourage move into settle accommodation . I be pleased to confirm that , as of 31 August , the Government have successfully end the use of bridge hotel for legally resettle Afghans . we estimate that over 85 % of those who be in bridge accommodation at the end of March 2023 have be help into home or pre - match into settle accommodation . end the provision of bridge accommodation be the right thing to do for our afghan friend , who can now get on with rebuild their life , and represent a fair deal for the british taxpayer . indeed , it be not right to continue to ask taxpayer to foot the bill for costly bridge hotel when , as we have demonstrate , settle accommodation could be find for the overwhelming majority of guest . that require a considerable national effort and represent a significant national achievement , and I extend my thank to colleague across central Government , as well as to local authority and third sector partner , who have all play a part . without dedicated caseworking team and council , in addition to the £ 285 million funding package I announce in March , this mammoth task would not have be possible . not only be we on track to deliver 1 , 200 home for Afghans through the local authority housing fund , which will help build a sustainable stock of affordable accommodation for the future , but we have mobilise the generosity of the great british public by create an innovative new afghan housing portal , which enable conscientious landlord to offer their rental property directly to family . furthermore , each local authority that receive an afghan family can access £ 20 , 500 per person over three year to provide wraparound integration support , as well as additional funding for english language class . I urge local authority to continue take full advantage of the generous funding offer the Government have put in place . as I tell the House in July , the Government have make time - limit interim accommodation available to a minority of family . that be available only to those for whom a move would disrupt ongoing medical treatment at a specific hospital and those who have be pre - match to a property that will be available before the end of December . as of 31 August , over 80 % of those in time - limit interim accommodation be already match to a property . we have already see over 200 people move out of interim accommodation and into settle accommodation , with more leaving every week . as I have set out , the overwhelming majority of Afghans have now move into settle accommodation or be pre - match to a property . that be testament to the significant central Government support that have be put in place . despite that support , however , some family have move into temporary accommodation under local authority homelessness provision . that be less than 5 % of the 24 , 600 people we have relocate from Afghanistan . of those family in temporary accommodation , around a quarter have a property to move into in the come week . other in temporary accommodation have , regrettably , turn down suitable offer of accommodation . I have be clear and honest from the outset that , where that happen , another Government offer will not be forthcoming . at a time when there be many pressure on the taxpayer and the housing market , it be not right that people can reject perfectly suitable offer of accommodation and expect to remain in taxpayer - fund hotel . however , in recognition of the pressure council may face as a result of housing Afghans in temporary accommodation , an additional £ 9 , 150 per household have be make available to council by central Government . that be in addition to the wide £ 2 billion available over three year to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . let I be clear : we have not leave afghan family without a roof over their head . I continue to work closely with central and local government partner to help the small minority of family in local authority - provide temporary accommodation to find settle accommodation across the United Kingdom . however , we must all continue to play our part in deliver a help hand to our afghan friend , to whom we owe so much . I encourage those who can do so to offer private rent accommodation , speak to their local council or list their property on the Government ' s Afghan housing portal , which remain operational . we also take seriously our commitment to resettle Afghans yet to arrive in the UK , include those eligible for our scheme who be still in Afghanistan . however , our effort to move people out of hotel have show how vital it be that they be move directly into long - term settle accommodation , where they can put down root in the community . that be why we be take forward plan to source suitable accommodation ahead of facilitate new arrival . welcome people who come to the UK through safe and legal route have always be , and will always be , a vital way in which our country help those in need . in that spirit , I look forward in the month ahead to welcome more of those who loyally serve alongside the UK ' s armed force in Afghanistan , as well as those who stand up for british value , often at great personal risk . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . today ' s statement be , though , a continuation of a shameful saga of Government failure when it come to the Afghans who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan . the Minister have come here today look for a pat on the back for boot people out of hotel , but he fundamentally misunderstand that across this House we give a commitment to those who serve alongside our force that we would do right by they when they arrive on our shore and that , despite many now be in permanent home , that commitment be still not be deliver . thousand be still wait in limbo in Pakistan , and thousand be still wait for family reunion . despite have be ask repeatedly whether his eviction scheme would make any family homeless , the Minister have today confirm that Afghans in bridge hotel be access local authority homelessness support . the opposition be proud of our armed force and of the Afghans who serve alongside they in the year in Afghanistan . I pay tribute to all those involve in Operation Pitting , but our commitment be give not just to those who come out on those plane ; they be give to people who serve alongside our force and who work for they . it be that wide commitment that the Minister have not address in his statement and that I would like to ask more about . I agree with he that Afghans should not have be leave in bridge hotel , but his Government decide to do that for 18 month . where be the apology from he for that policy of neglect ? I would be grateful if the Minister could now provide more detail on a number of question . first , how many Afghans and their family be still in a form of time - limit accommodation approve by the Minister ' s Government ? when do he expect that figure to be zero ? for any new arrival on the approve scheme , as tiny as those number be , will they be place in bridge accommodation or will they automatically be give a home straight away ? how will that work ? will the financial package for the eviction also apply for those new and future arrival , and how much have be set aside for that ? the Minister have give no detail in any of his statement to the House about how much this eviction process have cost taxpayer in total , and he have not say where that money be come from . be it from the Ministry of Defence , the Home Office or the tiny budget of the Office for Veterans ' Affairs ? how much in total do he estimate will be spend in clear up the Government ' s mess after leave Afghans in hotel for 18 month ? why be there nearly 750 Afghans wait more than two year for their ARAP application to be process ? what be the Ministry of Defence do to get nearly 600 ARAP - eligible people and their family who be still in Afghanistan out of harm ' s way from the Taliban ? how many Afghans be still in hotel accommodation in Pakistan , pay for by the UK taxpayer ? how many of they have be tell that the UK Government will not be pay their bill in the future ? what be the Government do to get the people to whom we make a promise out of Pakistan and to safety in the United Kingdom ? the Minister use some unclear language in his statement when he talk about how many people be in temporary accommodation under local authority homeless provision . he say it be less than 5 % of 24 , 600 . in July , I challenge he to say that no afghan family who help our force in Afghanistan would be homeless because of his policy of eviction . the Minister say at the time that , give what be on offer , " there be no reason why Afghans should present as homeless at the end of this process . " — [ Official Report , 18 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 809 . ] we can see that now . would it not be clear if the Minister , rather than say less than 5 % of 24 , 600 , say that 1 , 000 people be access homelessness provision because of his policy ? can he give a precise number of how many Afghans whom he have evict be access the homelessness provision of local authority up and down the country ? we give a solemn pledge that we would support those people who serve our armed force . the Minister be smile at that commitment , but 1 , 000 people access homelessness support be not something to smile about . this be not the opportunity for a giggle on the Front Bench ; this be an opportunity for we to be take seriously as a nation , because we promise people who arrive in the United Kingdom , people flee the Taliban in Afghanistan and those still in Pakistan that we would provide safety . he have do some of that with his eviction policy , but more need to be do . [ interruption . ] I know he be find this funny , and he be giggle on the Front Bench , but this be not funny . I know all too well from the casework I have be do for afghan family — [ interruption . ] there be a lot of attack come from those on the Government Benches , but this be a serious point , so let I finish . I know all too well from the casework I be do for afghan family and interpreter base in Plymouth in my constituency that they have family member on the run from the Taliban in Afghanistan who still fear for their life . we give a solemn promise to some of those people that we would get they out . can the Minister set out how we will get those people out and how we will bring they to safety , because that serious promise deserve to be honour ? the Minister want praise on this matter , but he should have apologise for the myriad Government failure . there be a chance now to address all of they — not just his eviction policy , but the issue of those in Pakistan and Afghanistan and those who still do not have the safety and promise of safety that we offer . that be pretty embarrassing from the hon . Gentleman . it be disappointing to receive a typically unpleasant response to the hundred of people who have work across the country to deliver this policy . I stand in this House and promise that we would close bridge hotel , which be totally unsuitable for Afghans , by 31 August . I have do that ; we have deliver on that promise . I say that nobody would sleep rough , and nobody have sleep rough throughout this process . the new arrival that he talk about , as he well know , be not within the scope of this statement . he well know that those question will not be answer today . the hon . Gentleman talk about the funding that have be throw at this issue . if he have be listen to anything that go on , rather than read out some student statement in the House of Commons , he would know that none of the £ 285 million come from the OVA budget . he say that budget be tiny , but it do not exist at all under his party , and his party have no plan to replace it . it be not tiny in the first place . I will not spend a lot of time on this answer , because it be an incredibly disappointing response to a serious issue . nobody on the Government Benches be laugh . he come up with these clip for his social medium platform , and it be embarrassing for the rest of we . this Government be commit to deliver on our responsibility when it come to migration . we promise that we would close bridge hotel by 31 August . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head , because he live in a different world . all the bridge hotel be closed , and nobody have sleep rough . I be proud of the team that have deliver that . we have not do it for he or for a pat on the back from the Labour party ; we have do it because it be the right thing to do for the afghan people , because on this side of the House we believe in something and in do right by these people , and we will deliver on our promise to they as we continue into the future . I thank the Minister for deal appropriately with the response from the Opposition Front Bench . during the next week I would like he , or one of his colleague , to follow up the case that I raise with the Leader of the House last Thursday . an International Security Assistance Force commander say of that person that he , " because of his service in support of the NATO Armed Forces in the Afghan Theatre of Combat Operations … have suffer and continue suffer threat to the life and property of himself . " I know that be not for the Minister to answer today , but I make that request . I want to be approach by the right person to find out how we can solve that problem . my office will have hear that today . we will ensure that that individual ' s case — I see my hon . friend ' s question last week — be raise with my office . we will do everything we can to provide he with an answer and to see where we go from there . Sabir Zazai , the chief executive of the Scottish Refugee Council , have say : " for every afghan person who arrive in the UK on a resettlement scheme in the year end March 2023 , almost 90 cross the Channel in a small boat . " this be a sign of a Government who be fail in their commitment to Afghans . every Afghan on a boat should have be able to reach here by the scheme that the Government have set up ; it be a sign of failure that they have not . the Government promise to resettle 5 , 000 afghan refugee in the first year and 20 , 000 over the come year , but since that announcement only 54 have be newly resettle under the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , and the scheme be now apparently dormant , despite a great need for they . to give an example , prior to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan , the Western Isles - base charity the Linda Norgrove Foundation be support 165 female student , include 96 study medicine . those woman be not allow to continue their study in Afghanistan , and have go from be trainee doctor to house helper . despite that , five scottish medical school be very supportive of allow 20 afghan student to travel to Scotland and complete their study , and all have agree to offer they place , yet the ACRS have not reopen , despite the UK Government say that it would within a year . there be no commitment for these woman to come to Scotland , despite the place be there and those woman be welcome , and I ask the Minister to reflect on that . People have be leave behind . I have dozen of family get in touch with I at the fall of Afghanistan , desperate to get their relative out , but I know of only a handful who be able to make it to Scotland . the Minister have leave they behind . can he tell I about the acr ? how many expression of interest have the Government receive on the scheme ? how many of those be sit in a pile yet to be process , because my constituent have hear nothing about their expression of interest ? move to the situation of Afghans in hotel , I understand from the local MSP and Cabinet Secretary Jenny Gilruth that 54 Afghans be give notice to quit from a hotel in Glenrothes . she be aware of no impact assessment and no discussion with local authority prior to that decision be make . when she raise the matter with the Minister for Immigration , she get nothing but a pat response with no detail on what she have raise . that be clearly not acceptable from the government ; they need to do much well if that be the level of engagement . we all know from our casework that there be lot of reason why people might not take up the first offer of accommodation they be give . be the Minister confident that people do not have legitimate reason , such as family tie or link to the local community , or many other reason why they do not want to be thrust out of the accommodation they be in and into somewhere with which they be completely unfamiliar and without a support network ? that will cause far more damage in the long run , rather than support people properly , which the Government be clearly fail to do . I do reflect on what the hon . Member say in term of individual who remain in Afghanistan . she will know of my concern in that space . this statement be clearly about those who be here and those for whom we have to do a huge job of work to get out of hotel and into accommodation . there be an extensive engagement process with local authority — I have all the local authority on call many time , and I meet many of they face to face — so it be simply not correct that people do not have notice . I be happy to go away and look at her case , but I can guarantee that the answer be that the hotel be give notice and that there be Home Office worker in that hotel , because I ensure that there be in every one . this have be an incredibly difficult process , but what I will not allow to happen be traduce of the work of those official in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Home Office who work throughout the summer , day and night , to ensure that we meet the target . they have do an extremely good job . nobody would begin to think that Afghanistan be anything but a human tragedy of epic proportion , and we be try to salvage what we can from that . as for my comment on future movement , it be right that individual come here and go into settle accommodation and not into hotel , because hotel be unsuitable , as we have see time and again . as I have say , the Government will honour our commitment to those who serve . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . will he join I in encourage council and legally resettle Afghans to utilise broad mainstream support such as english language class and unemployment support , in particular through Department for Work and Pensions work coach ? absolutely . in August , we spend a lot of time go around these hotel , explore and then confirm some of the support available to Afghans in different area . much of that support be include in the package , with £ 9 , 000 per family and £ 7 , 000 per person . we then have the £ 20 , 000 integration fund over three year , and there be £ 28 per person , per day for up to six month for those still in temporary accommodation . so there be every opportunity for these Afghans to properly integrate into british society , to learn English and those wrap - around skill , and to build a decent life in the UK , as we promise they when we evacuate they in Operation Pitting . the statement be on afghan resettlement , so I hope that the Minister can assist I . what progress have be make with council and other accommodation provider to bring to the UK the cohort of ARAP - approve Afghans wait in third country ? have he consider a Homes for Ukraine - style scheme ? I understand what the right hon . member be get at . my responsibility be clearly to get these individual out of hotel so that we could begin that process of bring people in Afghanistan who need to be here back to the UK . all option be be consider in that space . the Government recognise that there be people in Afghanistan we owe and who should be in the UK , and we will have more to say on that in due course . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his leadership and co - ordination across Government Departments in secure such a positive outcome . the Vale of Glamorgan have be proud to play its part . afghan family be originally locate in the Copthorne Hotel in Wenvoe in my constituency and be now settle and welcome in St Athan in my constituency — a proud community with many service personnel . I recently meet many of those afghan family — some be translator , some be intelligence officer and some be security guard at the british embassy in Afghanistan . when time permit , will he agree to come and meet those family so that he can well understand the network need locally with the Department for Work and Pensions , the jobcentre and social service so that there can be a well understanding of the practical need on the ground , as well as to recognise the gratitude they be show to the UK for that support ? I would love to come and see that work take place . I know that where individual have engage with the Government and the scheme , there be some incredible story of how Afghans have relocate into these community . one of the thing we do be build a taskforce of afghan national who be drive people around community in the UK and introduce they to landlord . we really do see something quite special over the summer in that join - up effort to meet this challenge . I would love to come down to see that . the Government ' s commitment to this be endure — there be no point in do this and then , in three year , find there be a problem with Afghans sleep rough — and I will personally see it through . I thank the Minister again for visit the Afghans at the hotel in Cardiff with I a few month ago . will he join I in pay tribute not only to the staff of his Department and other , but to the staff of Vale of Glamorgan Council , Cardiff Council and the Welsh Government , who work co - operatively to try to ensure that they find home ? will he give I the exact statistic on how many people be homeless at the end ? he promise that none would be , but I understand that a small number in Cardiff and the Vale be . if he do not have that to hand , perhaps he could write to I . what have be do on equivalency of qualification ? at that meeting , many of the Afghans raise with he that they can not get job because their qualification from Afghanistan be not be recognise . what have he do with the DWP to resolve that ? I will come back to the hon . member on equivalency in due course . there be an issue with get the healthcare worker we want to see into the NHS , and we be work on that at the moment . I promise that no one would be sleep rough at the end of the process , but I never promise that nobody would not apply for homelessness — I can not force people to live in certain house . however , I can ensure he that nobody sleep rough because of this policy or a lack of provision . that target be meet , and nobody sleep rough . of course , I pay tribute to all the local authority . some of they do extraordinary stuff during the period . I go on holiday myself , but there be other people on holiday still drive around at 10 o ' clock at night introduce people to community . I pay tribute to those from party of all colour across the United Kingdom . it really be a galvanising of a national effort . if we do that in future , we can meet the strategic challenge on migration . I thank the Minister for his statement ; I know that he care deeply about this . in the light of the afghan resettlement update — I know this fall slightly without his remit — to what extent be the Government put pressure on the afghan regime about girl and woman ' s education , with it be two year since the ban ? he mention that there be the opportunity locally for Afghans to learn English , and we know how important that be for integration . what estimation do he make of that funding so far in their integration ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . there be fund available to do english course , and every Afghan who have come over have have access to those course . we be get to the point , with Afghans have be in the United Kingdom for two year , where they should be speak English , and we have make a real effort to ensure that happen . on afghan politic , I have work out that the critical thing when work cross - departmentally , whether on veteran or this issue , be that we have to respect the lane we be in . that be clearly an issue for the Foreign Office , which I be sure will have hear my hon . friend ' s question . he can approach it for more detail . I thank the Minister very much for his update and for the work that have be do ; it quite clearly sound good . I have a constituent who work alongside an Afghani , and that outstanding case for resettlement have be turn down . I will not name the person in the Chamber , because I would not want to compromise he in any way , but I can not for the life of I understand how the scheme have be apply to that gentleman , who be currently in danger , have flee the Taliban . he work alongside the British Army . my constituent tell I all about his duty and what he do , and I be quite clear about it in my mind . this gentleman , alongside his wife and four child , be live in Afghanistan and in danger from the Taliban and other . he help the UK force — our force — when we beckon and ask for that help . surely the operation of the scheme must allow for compassion and common sense . may I seek the Minister ' s help — I mean that honestly — for that honourable gentleman who we can not let down ? I ask the hon . member to write to I about that individual today . I be more than happy to sit down and explain the process to he , look at that case and see whether it have go right or wrong . we know that there be people in Afghanistan who deserve to be here and who we want to be here — the previous Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , mention it a number of time . the Government be aware of that , and he will know my personal commitment to that . I pay tribute to Hounslow Council , my local council , the Feltham convene partnership and other who have play such an important role in support afghan refugee . when the Minister come to the House in March and announce that Afghans would be evict from UK hotel , about half the 8 , 000 Afghans in hotel accommodation be child . will he update the House on how many of those child be now settle in permanent housing as well as on the ongoing strategy for the continuity of their education , include the resource need for that , such as for trauma and other support ? the support go forward be extensive , as I allude to early . there will be £ 9 , 000 per family , with specific reintegration funding of £ 20 , 500 per person to make sure that happen . we have that deadline by 1 September because I do not want people take out of school . half these people be child , and they should not be in hotel . some of the scene I witness at those hotel be unacceptable . I be determined that we stick to that deadline , because it be the compassionate thing to do in the end . I pay tribute to everyone at Hounslow council , which I have visit , for do a great job . that show that if we all work together on these issue and take politic out of it , we can meet the challenge of strategic migration . let I start by put on record my thank to the Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who , after 18 month of beg by I and my team , be finally persuade to help I bring five british child and their afghan mother to safety in the UK in June . that be after the father , who have serve the previous Afghan Government and work with NATO , be brutally assassinate by the Taliban . his much young sister have be leave behind . she be an aunt to the child but grow up like their sibling because she be much young . she be alone with no male relative , in hiding and in fear of her life because she be a target . give the Minister ' s repeat statement about honour commitment to those leave behind , and give this woman have a UK sponsor , a job offer and a home to go to — no hotel — will he meet I to discuss her case so that we can bring she to safety , too ? if the hon . Lady send I the detail , I be more than happy to look at they . I recognise that such case be out there . we be deal with an individual over the summer who be know to we . we be try to help he , but he be capture , torture by the Taliban and kill in the middle of August . I be well aware of these issue . we will do everything we possibly can to make sure that we act in a timely manner . if she write to I about that case , I will look into it . on Friday I have the privilege of visit the Refugee and Migrant Centre in Birmingham . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to its great work in housing afghan evacuee ? the issue now be that rent have go up quite significantly , and the centre be find it difficult to house people and give they some sort of normality in the community . will he look at this issue urgently ? the pressure on housing across the United Kingdom be well - know . that be why we design a clever scheme to increase the local housing allowance and combine it with the local authority housing fund , and at the same time blend that with a service family accommodation provision to make sure that we could deal with the increase . as I say , this be not a fire and forget issue . this nation have an endure commitment to those family . we want to get they into settle accommodation , because that be their good opportunity to get a job . they have a right to work and to build a life in the UK . these be talented people . I pay tribute to those in Birmingham and across the country for lean into this task , and I be grateful for their effort . I commend the Government on the way in which they set up the Ukraine family scheme within a week of the russian invasion . but the parallel family reunion mechanism for Afghans resettle or call forward for evacuation under pathway 1 of ACRS be still not implement . I have more than 450 afghan family in my constituency who be desperate to be reunite with family . two year on , those family still have no way of bring their love one to safety . I believe the Minister may know of the case that I have speak about before in the Chamber , of a constituent who send I the photograph of his 15 - year - old daughter in her coffin . she commit suicide for fear of what the Taliban would do to she , but her four sister and their mother be still there . under pathway 1 , Afghans here have be give indefinite leave to remain , but that mean that they can not avail themselves of refugee family reunion ; anyone apply for that be tell that their application have be reject as invalid . will the Minister please increase the number of official deal with family reunion ? it be a matter of honour , but also of huge personal commitment . I be always look at what more we can do in this space . it be easy to forget the depth of the carnage in Afghanistan . we have someone in the scheme who be force to sell one of his child . he email we and say , " I be go to have to sell my child tomorrow , " and he do . it be horrific . that be why we all need to lean in and work as hard as we can . what have happen there be extraordinary . we will continue to lean into that and do what we can in these horrific situation . the Minister say that he look forward to welcome more of those who stand up for british value at great personal risk , so I want to draw his attention to precisely one of those . my constituent be a former Chevening scholar who have be in fear of his life since 2021 . he have , at last , be provisionally accept on ACRS pathway 3 . on UK Government advice , he travel to Pakistan with his wife and young family for final checking , but they have be leave there since May . their passport be due to run out in a matter of week , and they be petrify that they will be send back to Afghanistan once they become undocumented . it be simply not right that they have be leave there . I have not be successful in raise this issue by email and letter , so will the Minister meet I to try to resolve this urgent case ? I ask the hon . Lady to send I the detail of the case directly . as far as I be aware , we have respond to all individual case . I be well aware of the strategic situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan . the Prime Minister ask I to do a specific job on hotel , which we have to do before we could even think about bring people over from Afghanistan . we have now do that . the Government recognise their commitment , and we will have more to say on that in due course . my constituent ' s brother train and fight alongside UK force . he escape murder by the Taliban by flee across the border , injure and without paper . can the Minister confirm how many Afghans have be relocate from third country under pathway 2 and 3 of the resettlement scheme , and explain why his Government still require those ally to seek new documentation from the man try to kill they , or to arrive on small boat ? those scheme lie with the Home Office and the immigration system . I be sure that his question will have be hear . it be clear that challenge remain in this space . as be allude to in the previous question , the consequence of get it wrong that we be deal with be particularly horrific . we recognise our commitment and will work continue to work hard to fulfil they . Birmingham City Council with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about Birmingham City Council . Birmingham be a great city with a wonderful , diverse , creative and enterprise population . it have real economic , cultural and educational strength . but Birmingham City Council have not serve the citizen of that great city as it should have . for year now , the city have suffer as the council have fail to grip underperformance . poor leadership , weak governance , woeful mismanagement of employee relation and ineffective service delivery have harm the city . senior leader — both elect member and officer — have come and go , but the one constant have be a failure to deliver for resident who deserve well . I believe strongly in local government , local decision making and devolution of power to local community . but I also believe that when failure in local government occur , we must act . as we devolve more power to local government overall , we must demand sharp accountability . the need for action in Birmingham be press . on 5 September the council ' s chief financial officer issue a section 114 notice , which set out the full gravity of its financial situation . as a result , and as I will set out to the House , I be satisfied that Birmingham City Council be fail to comply with its good value duty . in line with the Local Government Act 1999 , therefore , I can announce that I be today write to the council to set out my proposal to intervene and to appoint commissioner , and that I intend to launch a local inquiry in due course . I do not take those decision lightly , but it be imperative to protect the interest of the resident and taxpayer of Birmingham , and to provide ongoing assurance to the whole local government sector . copy of the letter have be provide to the Vote Office , and will be deposit in the House of Commons Library and publish on gov . uk . it may be helpful to the House if I outline how we in Government arrive at this position . in 2014 , the independent Kerslake report , commission after the " Trojan horse " investigation into a number of Birmingham school , find that successive administration have fail the city . it warn that the council lack a clear vision , have fail to tackle deep - root problem such as the low level of skill , and be not do enough to provide consistently good quality service . the report ' s author , the late Lord Kerslake , also highlight a culture of sweeping problem under the carpet or blame they on other , rather than tackle they head on . the problem Lord Kerslake identify have , unfortunately , endure . in April 2023 , the Minister for Local Government , the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) ask the then council leader , Councillor Ian Ward , to commission an independent governance review . he be prompt to act after governance and service delivery concern be raise by three independent source : the local government and social care ombudsman , the housing ombudsman , and the Department for Education ' s commissioner for special educational need and disability at the council . the scope of the review be then extend to include two further serious issue which subsequently come to light : the flawed implementation of a new financial ledger system , Oracle ; and the council ' s handling of its significant equal pay liability . the council ' s response to both issue have cause concern , highlight significant shortcoming in its governance arrangement , and in its ability to identify and resolve area of weakness . last month , my hon . Friend write again to the leader , seek assurance about whether the council be compliant with its good value duty in relation to decision on equal pay and Oracle . to date , there have be no response . we understand that a number of factor lead the chief financial officer of the council to issue the section 114 notice last Tuesday , as lay out in the report . these include concern raise by the external auditor , Grant Thornton , around the provision for equal pay in prior year account . the independent auditor ' s assessment be that the revise estimate equal pay liability be likely to be more than £ 760 million , and there be a risk it could be much high . that mean , in turn , that the 2020 - 21 and 2021 - 22 account be materially mis - state , and that the council do not have sufficient reserve to mitigate the cost of the liability due for those year . in addition to the acute financial position stem from equal pay , the council be deal with other difficulty . they include the cost of resolve the botched Oracle implementation , estimate at £ 100 million . the resident and business of Birmingham deserve well . the intervention package I be propose today be form of two complementary part . first , I propose to issue statutory direction to the council and appoint commissioner to exercise certain function of the council as require . secondly , I intend to launch a local inquiry to consider the more fundamental question around how Birmingham get to this position and option for how it can become a sustainable council move forward that secure good value for its resident . I be propose the transfer , to the commissioner , of the exercise of all function associate with the council ' s governance and scrutiny of strategic decision making , and all function relate to senior appointment . as part of the propose direction , the council would , under the oversight of the commissioner , prepare and agree an improvement plan within six month , which would set out the council ' s own plan to make the necessary improvement to the whole council to return it to a sustainable financial footing . the commissioner will provide advice and challenge to the council across its operation and will have power to make decision directly should they deem that necessary . my hope be that the commissioner would not need to use all those power . none the less , they must , in my view , have the necessary mandate to deliver the reform that be require . the commissioner will give I , and I will in turn give the House , a progress report at regular interval . I judge that the scale and nature of the failing at the council , its precarious financial situation and its failure to provide sufficient assurance to Government that it be take adequate action to address these issue be all highly concerning . I acknowledge that the council be work with the Local Government Association on its own proposal on improvement , and I have meet the leader of the council to hear his plan , but in accordance with the legislation , I have now inform the council that I be minded to implement the package I set out today to protect the interest and service of the people of Birmingham , and have give the council five work day to make representation on the proposal I have set out today . I be specifically minded to appoint Max Caller , an experienced local government professional and commissioner , to lead the intervention . I will also welcome representation from member of this House and other who may wish to contribute their view . I thank Birmingham ' s mps for their engagement over the course of the last week , especially my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Northfield ( Gary Sambrook ) , who have be particularly closely engage with the issue throughout . it be important that we all get to the bottom of how we find ourselves in this position . that be why , as well as send in commissioner , I be today make it clear that we need a local inquiry that can look at all the deep question , include by assess the council ' s ongoing management of issue identify in the Kerslake review in 2014 and the subsequent non - statutory intervention . we will consider option for how Birmingham can improve in the future . I should make it clear that everything I be say today be not a reflection on the many hard - work staff at Birmingham City Council who continue to deliver essential frontline service for Birmingham resident . Birmingham be not the only council where we have see significant local failure . there have be problem in recent time at Liverpool , Sandwell , Slough , Nottingham , Thurrock , Woking and Croydon . the Government have not hesitate to act where poor decision making and governance have be identify . the newly establish Office for Local Government , our performance body for England , will have an important role to play in future where local authority be identify as be at risk of potential failure . it will bring council leader together with other in local government to explore problem in more detail . tougher scrutiny be vital when more decision making and budget be pass from central Government into the hand of local politician and official . when local leader fail , it be citizen who be let down — whose rubbish be not collect , whose library can not open and whose vulnerable people be not adequately protect . Birmingham ' s record be of ineffective , inefficient and unaccountable local government , despite our good effort and significant support . that need to change . I will take whatever step be necessary to uphold the good name of local government and to protect the resident of that great city . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for the advance copy of his statement today . it have be a while since we face each other : 804 day , to be exact . a lot have change since then . we be on our third Prime Minister , our fourth Chancellor and , of course , our sixth different Minister for Housing . they have crash the economy , family face the bad cost of live for a generation , and mortgage rate have increase nearly fivefold since our last meeting . but one thing have not change : local government have be push to the brink . Birmingham be just the big , late example . this be a deeply worrying time for people in the city . the issue face the council be difficult and complex , and administration of all three major political party have grapple with they in the year since they emerge . since May , the new leadership in Birmingham have be work urgently on this issue and have be clear that they will take responsibility for tackle the problem face their city , but they can only make that progress if the Secretary of State treat they as partner , and not as a political football . I welcome the comment the Secretary of State have lay out today in regard to the action and support he will give Birmingham , but can he assure we that the commissioner will work with the city ' s elect representative and leadership to tackle these problem together ? be his Department consider a similar approach to other struggle council ? will his official be take a deep dive into the area he mention in his statement ? in Birmingham ' s case , the Secretary of State mention the large equal pay settlement as the straw that break the camel ' s back , but he also tell we that governance and service delivery concern be raise by three independent source : the local government and social ombudsman , the housing ombudsman and the Department for Education ' s commissioner for special educational need and disability . that come after Lord Kerslake ' s review , which find that successive administration have fail the city . yet he provide no support until the section 114 notice . why do it take that for the Government to take action on this scale ? like the rest of the country , Birmingham be face the shock of spiral inflation and battle a cost of living crisis , but in the face of all of this , the Government strip away its reserve . can the Secretary of State confirm that that amount to £ 1 billion take from the pocket of local community over the last decade ? he surely can not deny that Birmingham have experience some of the most severe cut of the last 13 year , and he must recall that it be this Prime Minister who boast of change the funding formula to take money away from deprived urban area . now , face with an eye - water equal pay claim , with which the leadership be rightly deal , Birmingham have be push over the edge . as the Secretary of State admit , this be by no mean a single case . local authority across the country be struggle , and , after 13 year , he can not seriously say that it be all their own fault . perhaps he can confirm that only one council issue a section 114 notice before his party take office in 2010 , and that since then eight council have issue notice , with warning that another 26 be at risk of bankruptcy over the next two year . can he tell we why so many local authority of all political stripe have already issue section 114 notice on his watch ? this be not a one - off , so what work be his Department do to support local authority that be warn of financial distress now ? the truth be this crisis in local government have be cause by the Conservatives ' wreck ball . with every swing , another local council be push to the brink and another local community fall over the edge . that be the difference between we . a Labour Government would oversee sustainable , long - term funding for council , and we would work with local authority and push power , wealth and opportunity out of Westminster . the Secretary of State finish his statement by talk about uphold the good name of local government . surely we can all agree that central Government have real question to answer . will the Secretary of State finally grasp the nettle and take responsibility , or be his message to local council today that this be just the start of more misery to come ? it be a great pleasure to be reunite with the right hon . Lady ; those 800 day apart seem much long . we have certain thing in common — both of we have be trade union organiser in the past — but she have be much more successful in internal party election than I have ever be , so I do have a lot to learn from she . nevertheless , I must politely remind she that while in my statement I be , I hope , careful and scrupulous in make clear that responsibility go back quite some time in Birmingham , and responsibility do need to be share between elect member and official , I do not mention anything specifically or explicitly party political , because I believe it be vital that we work together across party and across political tradition to deal with this issue . give that the right hon . Lady do mention the party politic of this , I think it important for we to recognise that the intervention in Birmingham , and our intervention in Sandwell and Liverpool , have all be intervention in Labour - lead local authority in which comprehensive mismanagement extend back over year . it be simply not good enough to say that Birmingham have not receive the support that it need . Birmingham have a core spending power of £ 1 , 202 . 4 million . that be a 10 . 6 % increase in the last year , and a 31 . 8 % increase since 2015 - 16 . labour local authority have be support with funding , and also support with the help of West Midlands Combined Authority . there be a striking factor in the west midland : why be it that Labour Sandwell and Birmingham be fail , while the conservative leadership of Andy Street have see the delivery of record investment and record house building ? if people want to draw political lesson from what we have see in Birmingham , the message be very clear : if you want effective and efficient local government , trust in conservative leadership , particularly at a time when we need to recognise that a fundamental problem afflict Birmingham ' s finance be an equal - pay problem exacerbate by the action of trade union — trade union which , in many case , be fund Front - Bench spokesman for the Labour party . it be vital that labour politician use their influence to ensure that we can work together to deal with the problem that that great city face . I welcome the statement — it be right that the Secretary of State be take this decisive action in relation to commissioner so that we can get to the bottom of what have actually happen in Birmingham City Council — but can he give I some reassurance that neighbour local authority such as Dudley and Sandwell , and council tax payer , will not be pick up the cost of the failure of the Labour administration in Birmingham ? can he also reassure I that project relate to transport infrastructure and employment creation and skill will not be put in jeopardy by the failure of that Labour administration ? my hon . friend make an important point . of course , there be real issue for Sandwell as a local authority , which be why we have to intervene there to deal with year of mismanagement , but it be also the case that council tax payer elsewhere in the west midland must not be on the hook for failure that occur in Birmingham . we will have some tough decision to make . central Government be prepared to extend additional financial support to the city , but our commissioner will , I be sure , be confront the political leadership of Birmingham City Council with some necessarily difficult decision , and I hope that we can take they in a constructive spirit together . the Secretary of State give a list of council where section 114 notice have be serve and commissioner have be bring in . perhaps he can confirm that Thurrock , Woking and Northamptonshire be not labour - control council . he seem to miss that bit out when he be justify his attack on some council on the basis of their be Labour - control . no doubt there have be problem in all these council , but do the Secretary of State accept there be some overarch responsibility for a Government who deliver austerity to council — big cut than in any other part of the public sector — and that while by and large local government have manage extremely well , some council have go over the edge ? do he also accept that other council may now be face the brink ? he have an expert unit in his Department advise he . can he tell we how many council he think be now on the brink of section 114 notice , and what action he will take to help they in advance ? I be always grateful to the Chairman of the Select Committee . I have already point out that in my statement I deliberately do not choose to make political point , but give that my wonderful shadow , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , do choose to insert some party political point , I think it only appropriate for I to point out that Liverpool , Sandwell , Slough , Nottingham and Croydon have all be drive to the brink of bankruptcy by Labour leadership . it be important to give that context . it be also important to say that while I will of course continue to fight for local government finance — and , at the last spending review , I secure the big increase for over a decade — it be nevertheless incumbent on elect leader and officer to continue to deliver service efficiently . that be why our new Office for Local Government will hold council effectively to account while also highlight the good practice that be so widespread in local government , and which see many council continue to deliver high - quality service without get into the sort of trouble that Birmingham have get into . my right hon . friend will know that , unfortunately , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Northfield ( Gary Sambrook ) can not be here today because of a family matter , but he — like I , and like so many other in Birmingham and the west midland — want to make sure that this review in Birmingham be different from some of the review that we have see elsewhere so that we can finally figure out how Labour have repeatedly fail in Birmingham , in order to learn the lesson of the past but , most importantly , to protect local service for the future . I be grateful to my hon . friend . we must deepen this inquiry . it be fair to say that it be a conservative and Liberal Democrat administration that run Birmingham until 2012 , but over the last 11 year there have be a succession of Labour leader . I do not for a moment move away from the fact that there be way in which the Conservative - Liberal Democrat administration before 2012 be not perform as it should have be , but this deterioration — particularly when it come to the issue of equal pay — have occur on Labour ' s watch . can I ask two question of the Secretary of State ? first , he mention one person he be minded to appoint as commissioner . when will he tell we who else he have in mind ? secondly , will the Secretary of State ' s commissioner ' power to make decision directly extend to make decision to raise council tax and to sell off asset belong to the people of Birmingham ? I be glad that Max Caller have agree to be lead commissioner , but in the next few day I want to hear directly from Birmingham ' s mps and other representative about who they believe can act as effective commissioner alongside Max Caller . I be completely open to thought and suggestion from hon . member and other about how we can build the most effective and coherent team . it have sadly be the case in the past with local authority that have fail , such as Croydon and Slough , that we have need both to increase council tax in certain circumstance and to dispose of asset , but it be too soon to say what the precise mix of intervention that may be require be . I want to do everything to protect Birmingham ' s council tax payer and resident by make sure that service can continue . I move back to Birmingham after graduate ; I choose to do so in 2007 . I be a former president of the chamber of commerce and a former local enterprise partnership director — we have one of the most successful LEPs in the area — and to say that I be disappoint by what have go on in Birmingham be an understatement , not least because it have have over a decade to get to grip with this issue . do my right hon . friend agree , though , that there be two story in Birmingham ? there be the story of the political failure that we be see at the council , but there be also the story of the young - ever city in Europe thrive , with the large amount of start - up outside London , a massive life science sector and an advanced manufacturing sector . this success be happen under the leadership of Andy Street . will my right hon . Friend also confirm that my council , Solihull Council , which have project with Birmingham , will remain unaffected by what be go on there ? my hon . friend have have a distinguished career in business and public service in the west midland . it be right to say , as I seek to do at the beginning of my statement , that Birmingham as a city have so many strength . we can be proud of its people and of its achievement economically , educationally and in so many other way . the Commonwealth game show Birmingham very much at its good . this be a specific problem that relate to the council . it require focused action , and the support of the West Midlands Combined Authority , of Andy Street and of other will be vital in resolve this situation . there should be no adverse impact on resident in Solihull , and I will continue to work with my hon . friend and other representative of Solihull to ensure that that local authority continue to get the support it deserve . obviously , this be not a situation that anyone would want to be in . I want to understand exactly how the commissioner will work . while everyone be make party political point , it be actually the people of Birmingham who vote for the council and who have put those people in place . will the citizen of the city get any intervention in this process ? how be their feeling go to be hear , or be they just go to have thing do to they by people who , let ' s face it , do not live in Birmingham or know what the city be like ? I do not know this fella . I believe he work in Hackney . he do not live in Birmingham . he do not know anything about what the city be like . and the Secretary of State ' s praise for Andy Street make I think that he have never try to get on the tram in Digbeth . we can not just have a steamrollering in the city . there have to be some level of accountability also for the commissioner , and I wonder what system that will work on . I have to ask the Secretary of State : what be it about the last 10 year that mean he can reel off a list of council include Thurrock , Northamptonshire and Woking ? I believe that his own council be not in crack shape . what be it about the last 10 year that have mean they have all show crack in the roof ? there be several important point there . I have never take a tram in Digbeth , but I do know that , thank to Andy Street , there be significant additional investment in Digbeth and that the BBC be move there . it be thank to Andy Street that we be see business and culture flourish in the west midland . Max Caller be a uniquely experienced figure in local government . in Slough , he manage to deal with many of the defect that have occur under — I be afraid — a Labour administration . have talk to the hon . Lady and other Birmingham mps , I be very open to they as Birmingham ' s elect representative co - operate with I to help identify who should join Max as a commissioner . the explicit reason that I be minded to act in this way , and that I have announce only one name , be to get the maximum possible consensus and buy - in for a strong team that can take the step require . what have happen over the last 10 year ? I be afraid we have to look at individual council and the decision - making within they , and to recognise that there be well - run council . I shall not name they here , but there be even one or two well - run labour council . but it be important to recognise that this be about the quality of local leadership , which , as we devolve more power down , have to rise to the challenge . like many colleague in the west midland , I seek reassurance that my constituent in Wolverhampton will not be impact by a knock - on effect through the West Midlands Combined Authority . do my right hon . friend agree that hard - work people pay their council tax to get the essential do , and that Birmingham , which know it be in financial trouble , spend £ 1 . 2 million on trade union facility time last year seem an expense too far for hard - work people ? I thank my hon . friend for do such a fantastic job for Wolverhampton . even though I may not always agree with everything that Wolverhampton Council have do , it have have some distinguish Labour figure lead it in the past . more broadly , there have be a consistent failure to deal effectively with employee relation and trade union issue in Birmingham . we talk about equal pay , and of course equal pay matter , but what we have see be a failure to effectively confront this liability early enough and a failure to deal fairly and robustly with trade union . Birmingham be the eighth local authority to declare a section 114 notice since the Tories take power , cause huge concern to my resident in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale . across the UK , council be struggle with rise price and limited budget , and most be be force to make even deep cut next year . can the Secretary of State accept that local leader need certainty about their budget and reassure the House today that every local council will be properly fund by central Government ? absolutely ; we do ensure that every council be appropriately fund . I know — [ interruption . ] I know that the hon . Lady serve with distinction on Birmingham City Council , so I would exempt she from any criticism , but I do not exempt from criticism other who have serve and continue to serve on Birmingham City Council . if we look at each of these specific local authority , we see failure that require to be acknowledge — failure that even the current Labour leader have be good enough to acknowledge . that be why we need to work together and why this intervention be require . the sad case of Birmingham City Council will worry my constituent . as the Secretary of State know , Warrington Borough Council — a Labour - run council — have borrowing of almost £ 2 billion , which be 10 time its core spending power . my constituent and I worry about the governance of Warrington Borough Council and about the return on investment that have be make by the council . I be also deeply worried that councillor in Warrington do not understand the decision they have take and the exposure they have put my constituent under . each constituent be now in debt to the tune of £ 10 , 000 because of those decision . can my right hon . friend set out the step his Department be take to prevent another collapse at a Labour - run council , give that that could occur in Warrington next ? I know that the Minister for Local Government , the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , have be pay close attention to what have be happen in Warrington , and we will report back to my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) and to the House on that . he be absolutely right to raise those concern as there be more work that we require to do to satisfy ourselves about the fundamental financial health of Warrington . the Secretary of State have rightly mention the Bob Kerslake report of 2014 , a key finding of which be that the role of officer in Birmingham have subdue the role of elect member . John Cotton , the current council leader , have rightly highlight the accounting and equal pay issue — he want to make a difference . to resolve the issue with the officer , will the Secretary of State look to bring back the district auditor function , so we can be much clear about the finance of local authority ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the very constructive approach he have always take to deal with local government and education issue . yes , the Kerslake report identify a number of weakness , include at officer level and , yes , it be also the case that the relatively new leader of Birmingham City Council , John Cotton , have be honest about the need for improvement . it be also the case , as the hon . Gentleman rightly point out , that we need to improve the audit function within local government overall . the Redmond report and other have point to the need to do so , and I believe that the new Office for Local Government will provide an even more rigorous early - warning system , if thing be likely to go wrong , as well as — this be equally important — celebrate those local authority , of all political colour , that be do a good job so we can learn from they . the problem we face in Thurrock have emerge over the past 10 year , during a decade in which Thurrock have be dominate by three - party politic and a succession of minority administration in which the UK Independence party hold the balance of power . be brutally frank , it be impossible to make financial cut or to increase council tax , which have lead we to our current situation . in the light of the good value inspection , which find that the position have be exacerbate by annual election and constant electioneering , will my right hon . friend consider whether those lesson need to be read across local government ? I remind he that , go back as far as 2019 , previous Ministers , the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy and the National Audit Office all warn Thurrock of the recklessness of its policy , yet councillor and officer fail to act . do we need to consider statutory power for a sanction in those circumstance ? my hon . friend make a series of very helpful point , and she be right . obviously , it be not my role or responsibility at this time to interfere in the calendar of election that local government have enjoy , acquire or inherit over the year , but I agree that , wherever possible , we should move away from annual election . indeed , the work to change the electoral geography and timing in Liverpool have be helpful . she be also right that the particular political dynamic in Thurrock create difficulty , and how we hold people to account in future need to be review . my hon . friend have be a consistent voice in challenging underperformance at Thurrock Council , and a brave voice in attempt to face down populism in her constituency , in order to do the very good for her constituent . the situation face Birmingham City Council be very serious , and those responsible should be hold to account . none the less , we know Birmingham be not unique . many council across the country , as we have hear , be enter section 114 territory . accord to report , the Secretary of State ' s local council in Surrey Heath could go bankrupt within two year . what assessment have he make of the financial situation face council and of the impact of the £ 1 billion strip from Birmingham City Council ' s budget by the Government ? the overall health of local government matter hugely , and the financial health of local government matter hugely . that be why we be bring forward the new Office for Local Government . I think the hon . Lady and I will have to agree to disagree on the root cause of the problem in Birmingham . as I say early , Birmingham ' s core spending power have increase significantly , and other local authority that have not see their core spending power increase by the same amount be manage their finance effectively , but I hope we can work together to ensure that , wherever responsibility have lie in the past — we may disagree on that — we can serve the people of Edgbaston and all of Birmingham well in future . labour - run Blackpool Council currently have a budget deficit of more than £ 23 million , which be one of the large in the country compare with its revenue budget . despite this , the council continue to fritter away taxpayer ' money , not least in spend £ 174 , 000 on six tree and in give councillor a pay rise . to ensure its financial position do not deteriorate far , will the Secretary of State join I in urge the council to get the basic right , to end its pursuit of ideologically drive project that be not support by resident and to end all wasteful spending immediately ? I love Blackpool and I love tree , but £ 174 , 000 for six tree be £ 29 , 000 a tree . some tree they must have in Blackpool . more seriously , the local authority face challenge , but Blackpool ' s two member have be very successful in secure additional central Government expenditure to help to regenerate the centre of Blackpool and to secure new investment . whatever view one might take of Blackpool Council — and it do seem as if it be pay slightly more for its tree than it could have pay in most garden centre — central Government have nevertheless show how partnership and level up can secure real change . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the offer to work together , and that offer have be welcome by Councillor John Cotton this afternoon . can the Secretary of State tell we whether we can find a way to have a conversation about fair funding ? he be a student of Tory leadership campaign and , like we , he probably wince when he hear the Prime Minister say to one campaign meeting : " we inherit a bunch of formula from the Labour Party that shove all the funding into deprived urban area … that need to be undo . I start the work of undo that . " the truth be that rich council have take cut of about £ 44 per head since 2010 , whereas Birmingham City Council have take cut of 14 time that amount . there be a conversation to be have about funding , and I be grateful that the Secretary of State be consider one way to fix it , by create a levelling - up zone and investment zone in east Birmingham , on land between the two High Speed 2 station . can the Secretary of State confirm that those plan will still go ahead ? have he consider create a development corporation in east Birmingham , for which I have argue for a long time , to lever in significantly large amount of money ? can we have a conversation about how we support the combine authority , too ? as he will know , Andy Street ' s budget face a gap of £ 29 million next year , rise to £ 50 million in a couple of year ' time , and currently there be a £ 1 . 1 billion black hole between the investment programme and the fund available to pay for it . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his very thoughtful question . although we might disagree politically and have different reflection on what may have be say in the past , he be absolutely right that we need to explore a development corporation and that east Birmingham , in particular , need additional investment . he be also right that we need to work with the West Midlands Combined Authority . the recent trailblazer devolution deal give significant additional support to the West Midlands Combined Authority and the Mayor , but we keep what be require under constant review . the right hon . Gentleman be also right that Birmingham ' s economic health power the whole west midland and be vital to our overall success as a nation , which be why I want to make sure that we get back to strong leadership and effective governance in Birmingham . I call the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I welcome the appointment of Max Caller , who have a strong track record of make these difficult decision and help council to turn around , but the Secretary of State will know that task and finish be a big part of what happen in Birmingham . do he have oversight of which other council be still do that ? nearly 30 year ago , at Islington Council , we be look at those issue and tackle they . the big issue here — the elephant in the room — be local audit . some 12 % of audit opinion for the 2021 - 22 financial year have come in , even with the extend deadline . the permanent secretary and the National Audit Office have indicate that we need to focus on the current year and to forget previous year , but these canary in the mine , these warning sign , be never hear because of the dire state of local audit . this have all be on his government ' s watch . can he give we any reassurance that he really have a plan to get local audit back on track ? first , I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word about Max Caller . he be a first - class professional , and I know he will do an excellent job with the other commissioner . secondly , I think it be fair to say — I do not want to make a party political point — that the local audit situation require both investment and leadership . one of the first thing I seek to do when I arrive in the Department be to ensure that the Office for Local Government can play a system leadership role in help to reform and improve that process . I completely agree with the hon . Lady on that . the hon . Lady ' s central point be about task and finish , which some member may think sound like a good thing . a task and finish group be a team that set out to resolve a problem and dissolve itself when the problem be finish . it seem to be the model of what we should have in administration : not a permanent bureaucracy , but a taskforce . however , task and finish in Birmingham , and indeed in some other local authority , have basically mean the binman — the scaffie , as we would say in Scotland — knock off early as soon as they have claim that they have finish their task and yet claim for their full work day . again , it be not an effective way to run any public service . council across the country be struggle under severe financial constraint and there be no doubt that local government be badly underfunde . however , I want to commend my Bath & North East Somerset Council for have show great prudence in order to rebuild its finance , and I hope the Secretary of State will join I in praise it . the reform of the audit system have be mention , but may I ask he : what timeline can we expect for a reform of that system ? when do he think the backlog of unpublished opinion will be clear ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that and I have the great privilege of visit Bath recently to look at a housing development . just as some labour council be good , I believe there be one or two liberal Democrat council that be good , although I certainly shall not be name they at this Dispatch Box now . more broadly , we be take step to deal with the audit situation she mention and my hon . friend the local government Minister can brief she in detail , should she wish , about that situation . the Secretary of State mention core spending power , so it be important to reflect on the first 10 year of this Conservative Government , when 60p in every pound be strip away from local authority . the Government then force council to rely on council tax as central Government funding be reduce . place such as Birmingham and Luton can raise much less from council tax , because of their small housing stock , than wealthy area , which have big house in high council tax band . place such as Birmingham and Luton therefore lose out every year . be his policy just a result of incompetence or be it part of the Prime Minister ' s state aim to take funding from deprived urban area and give it to wealthy town ? I do not know how it be possible to sustain an argument that we be take funding from deprived area when one look at the levelling - up partnership we have in Hull , sandwell , Blackpool , Blyth , Worksop — [ interruption . ] a tiny amount ? tell that also to the people in Middlesbrough , Redcar and Cleveland , who have benefit from strong conservative leadership and investment . tell it to the people in Workington , Walsall and Willenhall . all of they have benefit directly from the levelling - up funding that this Government have secure . be there tough time in the first couple of year after 2010 ? yes . why be there tough time ? it be because Labour have leave we in a situation where there be no money leave . I be afraid that the lesson of Labour in central Government be that it always leave office with unemployment high than when it enter and with the public finance devastate . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for respond to the question , particularly those from the local Members . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . yesterday , the canadian Prime Minister , Justin Trudeau , say that allegation that India be behind the assassination of Hardeep Singh Nijjar be " credible " . Hardeep be a prominent activist in the canadian diaspora campaign for independence for Khalistan . sikh have long suspect that India be behind the recent killing , which appear to have be a grotesque and completely illegal extra - judicial expansion of Modi ' s Government , an authoritarian crushing of dissent within India itself . I urge our Government to warn their indian counterpart that such state terrorism will not be allow to impact government - to - government relation . as the House be due to rise , may I ask the Government , through your office , to make an urgent statement on this important issue , to assure Sikhs in the UK of the Government ' s intention ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order and his forward notice of it . I have receive no indication that any Minister intend to make a statement — or statement far to those we have just have today — but if that change , member will be notify in the usual way . however , I be certain that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear the point of order that the hon . Gentleman have make . Departmental Response Times Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement . the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . those should be brief question and not speech . may I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not to the relevant Minister ? Front Benchers may take part in questioning if they so wish . today , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have publish a special report on the response time of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to the Committee ' s report . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for kindly grant time to our Committee for a statement on the special report , and I thank the Committee staff for their support to assist we in produce it . the House have appoint our Committee to scrutinise the Department . the issue that our Committee consider affect the day - to - day life of constituent up and down the country . during this session , we have publish report on topic such as adult social care , housing supply and funding for level up . we have also investigate damp and mould , and reform to the private rented sector — two issue that be raise on a daily basis in correspondence to the Committee and in our mailbag as constituency mp . we have hear evidence from hundred of witness , who have give up their time to share their experience — in some case , harrowing and deeply personal experience — to inform the Committee ' s work . they do so in the expectation that our report and recommendation will influence Government policy and improve people ' s experience of public service . for our scrutiny of Government policy to be fully effective , the Government must consider and respond to our conclusion and recommendation . sometimes the Government will accept our recommendation and sometimes they will not . what be important be that we receive a response from the Government . their response demonstrate that they have consider the view of the Committee and allow the public to see what the Government be do in response to our inquiry . it be a well - establish convention that the Government should respond to all Select Committee report within two month of publication . we understand that that will not always be possible , perhaps during a parliamentary recess or where recommendation be direct to more than one Department . however , delay should be the exception not the rule , and we expect open and proactive communication from Ministers and official on the rare occasion when they expect a Government response to be delay . the experience of our Committee be that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have historically and consistently fail to respond to our Committee report within a reasonable time . during this session , we have publish seven report and not one of the Government ' s response have be publish within the two - month deadline . on average , Government response to our report have be almost six month late . the response to our report on funding for Levelling up , on the Electoral Commission ' s strategy and on exempt accommodation be all late . the response to our report on adult social care be eight month late ; the response to our report on social housing be 10 month late . the response to our report on permit development right be one year and eight month late . we be still wait on overdue response to our report on reform to national planning policy and on reform the private rent sector . our Committee staff spend a disproportionate amount of their time , resource and energy attempt to engage with Ministers and official , through formal and informal channel , to get response . over the year , as Chair of the Committee , I have see response be late , but thing have get progressively bad . in March 2022 , the Chair of the Liaison Committee write to the then Leader of the House to highlight case of " egregiously overdue " Government response . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be identify as a repeat offender when it come to late response , and be responsible for five of the 13 example in that letter . in January this year , we ask the permanent secretary about his Department ' s failure to respond . he say : " we need to make sure that it be an important responsibility of the Department that we respond on time . " we have see little evidence that the Department have take this responsibility more seriously . indeed , in the case of our report on reform in the private rented sector , publish in February , the lack of response have be deeply disappointing . the two - month deadline pass on 9 April . on 3 May , the Secretary of State write to the Committee to explain that the delay response will be publish " alongside the introduction of the Renters Reform Bill " . the Bill be introduce on 17 May , but we have still not receive a response to the report . instead , we have hear that a response will be publish " as soon as possible " . we have make seven separate formal request for the response , as well as many informal request , but we be still wait for the Government ' s response . it be now more than five month overdue . the Committee broadly support the legislation on private rental reform and have make suggestion for its improvement . we now need to hear whether the Government plan to accept these recommendation , and if not , why not . we expect a response in April ; we be promise one in May ; we be now in September and still wait . we be also wait for the second reading of the Bill . we hope to receive the response before Second Reading , although that appear to have be somewhat delay as well . it be imperative that the Government fully consider the Committee ' s conclusion and recommendation in the report , and publish a full response imminently . our special report call for a Government response on the private rent sector in the next two week , along with an explanation as to what have cause the delay . we have request an assessment from the Cabinet Secretary about these matter . finally , we have ask the Liaison Committee to consider a formal review of Government response time , include our experience with this Department . in reality , a Select Committee ' s power and effectiveness be significantly undermine when the Government do not fulfil their responsibility towards it . minister must be accountable to this House . we , as a Committee , treat our responsibility to scrutinise the Department and its Ministers with the utmost seriousness . it be time that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities take its responsibility to our Committee and the House equally seriously . the first step in do so must be to respond to our principal output — our report — in a professional and timely manner . I normally take great pleasure in come to the House to report on the Committee ' s inquiry and finding . it give I no pleasure at all to have to make this statement today . I hope I do not have to make a similar statement in the future . there be now an opportunity for hon . member to ask question of the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , and all its member for the valuable work they do shape , challenge and scrutinise policy and hold people to account . my constituent , and those of many other hon . member , be wait with bated breath for reform to the private rent sector . the Committee have produce an excellent and powerful report about it , but can I clarify that a response to that report have be request from the Department on several occasion ? yes . the Committee work on a cross - party basis and our report on the prs be produce unanimously . we have raise our concern about the delay response in person with Ministers at our hearing , and we have also write to Ministers , but still we have not have a response . I take no pleasure in rise on the subject of the statement either . I have have the opportunity to serve on the Committee and its predecessor for the last 13 year , since I have be in Parliament , and over that period of time we have work very hard , on a cross - party basis , to make sure our recommendation be agree on a cross - party basis . do the Chair of the Select Committee agree that the Government ' s response to the Committee ' s report on exempt accommodation be some six month late ? give that I be promote a private Member ' s Bill , which have now become an Act of Parliament , not have a response from the Government be hardly helpful in guide the House or the House of Lords . will he confirm that position and that many of the recommendation that the Committee have make would have help the Government to deliver much well service for all our constituent ? yes , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . he have serve on the Committee all the time I have be Chair . we have work together closely and he have do an absolutely outstanding job , both on the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 and the Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 , which deal with exempt accommodation . give that the Committee undertake a report on the issue of exempt accommodation , it would have be really helpful , not merely to the hon . Gentleman but to all member of the House who be look at that particularly challenging issue , which we describe as a complete mess , if the Government ' s response to our report have be available in a timely fashion , as it could have inform the deliberation and consideration of the hon . Gentleman ' s excellent Bill . in the end , we get an Act that be valuable and well support , but the Government do not help because of their delay in respond to our report . thank you , Mr Betts , for your statement — it be almost a 10 - minute point of order . I be sure that member on the Treasury Bench will have hear the point that have be make , not only by Mr Betts but by Bob Blackman . import of Dogs Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to prohibit the import of puppy age under six month ; to prohibit the import of pregnant dog in specify circumstance ; to prohibit the import of dog with cropped ear or dock tail ; and for connected purpose . I thank the charity Dogs Trust and the many charitable organisation that have do an amazing job engage with we as member of Parliament over the year , look out for the life of our four - legged friend . the issue of animal welfare be feel passionately by my constituent and , I be sure , all our constituent around the country . for many year , my constituent have be get in touch with I about the issue of cropped ear and puppy smuggling . I can understand why there be such a strong feeling about the topic . in move the motion , I declare an interest , as I be an avid dog lover myself . I have see at first hand the love , comfort and , sometimes , the hard work that a dog can bring to a house . I be lucky enough to have two wonderful golden retriever , Willow and Lola , and two Staffordshire bull terri crosse , Snoopy and Jazz , who have be my constant companion for some time . and I be not alone in that regard . indeed , figure suggest that in the 28 million household in the UK there be 13 million dog , which mean that almost half of all household in the UK own a dog . our status as a nation of dog lover be plain for all to see last week , when these very corridor of power be fill with bark and numerous wet nose . I be , of course , talk about the Westminster Dog of the Year award , where we have the chance to see our four - legged friend up close and in action . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) and TJ on their victory . the 2019 conservative party manifesto outline how the Government would crack down on the illegal smuggling of dog and puppy . that commitment be reconfirm in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . I understand that the Government have be unable to progress with that Bill because of the scale of the number of amendment that be propose , so I be proud to be introduce a private member ' s Bill to enact the manifesto commitment myself . the scale of the problem must not be underestimate . the relaxation of the pet travel scheme in 2012 have lead to an exponential growth in illegal smuggling into the country . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs estimate that before the relaxation some 85 , 000 dog be smuggle into the country , which have increase to 275 , 000 in 2016 . that increase in illegal dog have also cause an increase in the case of zoonotic disease , include brucella canis . that be a risk to public health and the country ' s biosecurity . Dogs Trust have in recent year conduct five investigation , which find that smuggler be use the pet travel scheme to cover up illegal activity in the UK . the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill have previously seek to stop illegal puppy trafficking by reduce the total number of animal allow to travel into the UK within a year . it also seek to increase the minimum age of import dog , place restriction on pregnant dog and put a complete ban on mutilate dog . the original Bill be design to " make provision about the welfare of certain keep animal that be in , import into , or export from Great Britain . " however , I know that there be still a determination in this House to right the wrong currently be perpetrate against animal ; to close the loophole that be available to smuggler , which they continue to exploit ; and to strengthen the exist law and legislation . this private Member ' s Bill stand to do just that . although I wish I have the time to acknowledge every Member ' s contribution , I would particularly like to thank the Minister for International Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who have do incredible work lead up to this 10 - minute rule motion , include hold his own Westminster Hall debate on puppy smuggling , which be centre around the same issue that I be try to address today . back in 2019 , when that debate be hold , it gather vast support from all part of the House , and I hope that this Bill will enjoy the same cross - party support . I know that the british public certainly support this Bill . a total of 65 , 000 people have previously write in favour of its content , and a recent study by Dogs Trust find that 83 % of all respondent think that the Government should fulfil our manifesto commitment to crack down on puppy smuggling . in the past year alone , 485 puppy be find to be smuggle into the country , as well as 110 pregnant dog . this transportation can have huge effect on a dog ' s mental , emotional and physical health , cause last trauma and health issue — and that be if the dog survive the journey at all — all of which can go on to cost many unsuspecting dog owner greatly , both financially and emotionally , as they seek to rectify such issue . dog bring joy into our home , but we need to make sure that we be not put traumatise dog into people ' s house . to illustrate the horrible journey that some of these dog have have to endure , I shall briefly outline the story of Waffle and her nine sibling . they be cram into shoebox and tie up for almost 20 - plus hour on a 1 , 000 - mile journey from Slovakia . they have no food , no rest and very little water . the puppy be severely underweight and infest with worm when they be find . at eight week , they be barely half the current legal travel age of 15 week . Waffle and her sibling be luckily rescue by Dogs Trust and have now all be take care of and rehome with love family . however , sadly , more often than not , puppy do not have such a lucky outcome . the Bill would seek to put an end to such tragic story and improve the life of these dog as well as their owner . it would seek to stop the premature importing of puppy and spare they from the often traumatic journey at such an incredibly formative point in their life . it would also go far in help to disincentivise people from transport pregnant dog , as well as hopefully put a stop to the importation of mutilate dog , send a strong signal to stop the inhumane practice of cropping ear and dock tail — although I do recognise that the docking of tail be sometimes necessary in certain medical circumstance . dog have be mankind ' s companion for millennia — 15 , 000 year , to be precise . the Bonn - Oberkassel dog , discover bury alongside two human in Germany , be believe to be the old example of the relationship between man and dog . then there be the hunt dog of the palaeolithic era , and the siberian sle dog of 9000 BC ; right through to the pet adorn many medieval painting , and , even more recently , the brave four - legged search - and - rescue team member . dog have protect we , help we , provide companionship , and even seek out lose friend and family . now it be our chance to repay that companionship and that assistance by protect they . that be what this Bill do . to conclude , the Bill set out to right the wrong currently be perpetrate , to close the loophole that smuggler continue to exploit , and to strengthen the exist law and legislation so that we can continue to give love to our four - legged friend . this would be the opportunity for anyone to speak against the 10 - minute rule motion . I have not be notify that anybody wish to do so — I would be amazed if they do — so I will put the question . question put and agree to . order , that Elliot Colburn , Nick Fletcher , Caroline Nokes , Selaine Saxby , Aaron Bell , Matt Vickers , Dr Neil Hudson , Sir Robert Buckland , Cat Smith , Patricia Gibson , Sarah Champion and John McDonnell present the Bill . Elliot Colburn accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 368 ) . Backbench Business Conference Adjournment I beg to move , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . I be speak on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee , the Chair of which have ask I to lead the debate in his absence . I start with some bad news , namely on the ultra low emission zone . we be all incredibly disappointed that , despite the fact that the majority of Londoners overwhelmingly oppose the expansion of ULEZ , the out - of - touch , megalomaniac Mayor of London have go ahead regardless . the measure have already have an absolutely devastating impact on thousand of people across outer London . More than 2 , 000 Harrow East resident have sign my petition and share their view on this measure . even after a month of implementation , signature be come in fast and more frequently than before the expansion . the expansion have isolate the most vulnerable in society . with elderly people unable to afford new vehicle , have spend their pension on a car when they retire , they be now unable to make necessary journey — go to the doctor , the pharmacist or the hospital , visit family or do grocery shopping — without have to pay £ 12 . 50 each day . one resident recently write to I . they say : " I ' m disabled and my wife be a pensioner and people will no long visit because of the ULEZ tax , leave we isolate from family and friend . " how utterly tragic be that ? once the daily charge have be incur , it be not even a simple procedure to pay it . this be heighten for the elderly who be notoriously less tech savvy . that be assume that they have access to the internet in the first place . if the charge be not pay within a three - day window , a £ 160 fine be incur . to complicate matter far , there be an increase presence of scam website , which be pose as Transport for London to take ulez payment , but be actually fraud , with absolutely no association to TfL and it seem that no action be be take against they . many of those on the low income , typically work night - shift , be unable to update their car , particularly as non - compliant car have crash in value — I speak to some people at the weekend whose car be now worth less than £ 50 even though they be perfectly serviceable vehicle . public transport link at the time when people need to travel for night - shift be also not available , so just to get to work and back they be force to pay £ 25 per shift , £ 12 . 50 each side of midnight . that can not be describe as fair , particularly as the Mayor drive a gas - guzzle large Land Rover , which be non - compliant , yet he have give himself an exemption so that he can continue to drive his car while incur no ulez cost . what a shamble . the expansion will also drive up the cost of other service . I speak to a gardener over the weekend , who say that he now charge his customer £ 12 . 50 on top of his daily charge just to get to work and back again . furthermore , many charity will lose out because volunteer will no long be able to get to the charity headquarters or deliver for local food bank . yet again , this lead to the most vulnerable lose out . the ULEZ be only the late of a barrage of ludicrous idea from the Mayor of London . I recently launch a consultation to hear the view of resident on his tenure , and I urge everyone to visit my website and submit their thought . it have never be more important , in my view , to elect Susan Hall as the new Mayor of London in the election next May . I move on now to the monstrosity that be Edgware Towers — a truly ridiculous proposal to build a cluster of 29 high - rise building , one block of 29 storey and 14 other in excess of 20 storey , in Edgware Broadwalk . that would totally change the character of Edgware , morph it into a Canary Wharf twin and overwhelm the current infrastructure . it be important to note that I be supportive of reasonable development , but certainly not outrageous development such as this . Ballymore Estates be try to put in an amount of housing that would take up the entire area of St James ' s Park on the space occupy by Edgware bus station . it be a nonsense . there be many ludicrous thing arise from the proposal . construction would take more than 10 year , completely kill the small and medium - sized enterprise on the high street . the underground bus station pose a major threat to people ' s safety , particularly woman and girl , and then there be the fire safety issue with electric bus battery . it would be the first place anywhere in the world where electric bus would be leave underground overnight . there would also be very limited parking , with none for resident — and resident will need car to travel east to west . it be all very well if they want to travel into the centre of London , but if they want to travel anywhere else , they will need a car . there will also be an impact on traffic , because all around the area will have to be control parking zone , 24 hour a day , seven day a week , because there will be no control on the resident in those particular property . the proposal completely ignore public opinion . my recent survey receive more than 1 , 000 response , 96 % of which be against the proposal . last week , I meet Ballymore Estates to discuss its unacceptable proposal . it be fair to say that we have an interesting discussion , but I make clear my opposition to their plan . the sheer scale of the development be complete codswallop , and it be clear that the developer be not listen to the view of local people and business . they plan to submit the application to the local authority by the end of September , so it be vital that resident share their view and voice their objection as soon as possible . again , I make clear that we be not against development ; we be just against development of the scale and density propose here . I be pleased recently to meet Alex Dewsnap , the manage director of Harrow Council . we discuss the way my office can work with the council to ensure well service for resident and swift and productive response to casework ; I have to say that that have not always be the case when deal with Harrow Council . I be pleased that under the new conservative administration , the council have begin a comprehensive plan for road resurfacing across the entire borough , ensure that the quality of road for resident be safe and not litter with pothole , as have previously be the case . as I have raise in this Chamber last year , the Labour council be complicit in a huge corruption scandal , with contractor and officer share £ 2 million for themselves , money that be earmark to fix dangerous pavement . I be frustrated that , while the investigation continue , the police be refuse to take action against the fraudster because they consider the crime to be too small . I be afraid that , to I , £ 2 million of taxpayer ' money be no small deal at all . one of the principal problem for the council be house in multiple occupation , with unscrupulous landlord falsify document and cram people into unacceptable tenancy , so that many resident then complain about the antisocial behaviour of people live in those cramp condition . I be encourage that the council be look to buy 140 house for use as social rent property and be take action to ensure that supply meet demand for vulnerable resident . furthermore , there be a planning case await a decision for 140 new house to be build in the local area , show that appropriate , sensible and realistic development will always be support by local authority , meet the need of resident and adhere to sustainable development — quite contrary to Edgware Towers ! look at international issue , the situation in Iran remain at a critical stage . last Saturday mark exactly a year since the tragic murder of Mahsa Amini by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps — the devastating death of a young lady for simply wear she hijab incorrectly . Mahsa ' s legacy live on , and the uprising in Iran and by the diaspora around the world continue , call for a free and democratic Iran . she have inspire a historic movement , " Woman , Life , Freedom " , but the threat from Iran remain . over the last year , more than 30 , 000 political protester have be arrest and over 750 execute . furthermore , the irgc continue to pose an unprecedented threat to the international community and to british interest across the world . only a week ago , I jointly host a press conference with the National Council of Resistance of Iran , where my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) reveal that MI5 have intercept more than 15 terrorist attempt directly link to the irgc in the last year alone . on top of that , the Home Secretary have outwardly declare the IRGC as the UK ' s large security threat . I be encourage that the Government have recently proscribe the Wagner Group . while there have be progress from the Government in introduce tough sanction on the irgc , that be frankly not enough . the settled view of all party in this House be that we must proscribe the irgc in its entirety . it be a clear terrorist operation , directly threaten individual across the world , include in the UK , supply weaponry to the russian force for use in the ukrainian war , abolish free speech , execute thousand and thousand of innocent civilian each year and inhibit the right of woman . in well news , a free trade deal with India will be a tremendous opportunity for both the United Kingdom and India . it be disappointing that we do not have the trade deal yet , since it be initially anticipate for Diwali 2022 . however , I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not sacrifice quality in order to do a deal quickly . the Government have assure the House that the majority of the negotiation conversation be conclude by the end of October last year , so I hope that this deal be still be prioritise to obtain a mutually satisfactory conclusion as soon as possible — and certainly not in a perfunctory manner . along with many indian resident in Harrow East , I look forward to a trade deal that will be the first of its kind for India , the first free trade deal that the country have do , hopefully as soon as Diwali 2023 — so we do not have long — and certainly before the upcoming indian election . I host 50 student in my constituency office over a two - week period for the annual work experience programme . the student be a real asset to the constituency , enthusiastically get involve in a range of task from survey resident to volunteer at London ' s Community Kitchen , engage in lively political debate and help with some of the office admin . I want to say thank you to all the resident who take the time to answer the student ' survey , as their contribution be truly helpful in assist their learning — and none of those excellent student could be describe as ragamuffin . during this week , the student gather over 1 , 045 survey and deliver letter to nearly every ward in Harrow East , learn the importance of data collection . that help my casework statistic to reach a staggering 66 , 000 since I be elect MP for Harrow East . as a thank you for all the student ' hard work , we conclude with a day in Westminster . we have a tour around Parliament and a trip to conservative campaign headquarters , follow by an interesting talk from member of the team and the party chairman . the day conclude with a visit to 10 Downing Street and a great photo opportunity . I continue to run my weekly tour , as do many other colleague , give resident an opportunity to ask question of I and allow I to show off this wonderful establishment . since be elect , I have welcome more than 6 , 000 resident here and I look forward to continue that after the recess . another area that I be passionate about be smoke cessation . four year on from the initial Smokefree 2030 commitment make at the Dispatch Box , we be not on course to achieve it . I welcome the recent announcement that disposable vape will be ban , because they encourage child to use tobacco product . I be pleased that the NHS will begin targeted lung cancer screening to help detect cancer soon and speed up diagnosis for those with a history of smoking . both my parent die of that , so it be a personal issue for I . however , there be a long way to go . the Khan review last year demonstrate the need for urgent action if we be to get anywhere near the 2030 target . research by Cancer Research show that , despite significant momentum over the past few year , we have recently go backwards on the number of people smoke . that be not good enough . each day that the Government fail to take action be another day when 150 people will be diagnose with smoking - relate cancer . I be pleased to join representative of Cancer Research UK as they present to the Prime Minister at 10 Downing Street a petition of more than 13 , 000 signature urge the Government to provide more funding to help people quit smoking . I wish all colleague in this House and the other place , the staff in our team , the security team , the catering team , and everyone else who play a key part in keep everything afloat , a very restful , jolly and fruitful conference recess , spend time with family and — for those of we who be go — at our various party conference , and , most importantly , serve our constituent over that period . to those who celebrate last week , I wish a happy Rosh Hashanah and Jai Jinendra . to those celebrate this week , I wish a happy Ganesh Chaturthi . finally , I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate . I be go to say " thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , " but I should now say thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for preside over it . I thank the hon . gentleman for open the debate . I remind colleague that they should stay for the wind - up . I call Siobhain McDonagh . it be now 12 week since my sister Margaret die of a glioblastoma brain tumour . may I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for attend her funeral ? since her death , I have make it my mission to make sure that glioblastoma have a cure . I would not wish Margaret ' s experience on my bad enemy . through care for Margaret for 19 month , I have learn a few thing . through Margaret ' s treatment and campaigning on this issue , I have meet industry expert , trade body , Ministers , charity and scientist . it be a topic that I know far more about than I would ever have wish to . and the big insight I have gain be this : the treatment of brain tumour in the NHS have not improve in 30 year . when a person be diagnose with a glioblastoma , they get eight week ' radiotherapy , follow by as much chemotherapy with temozolomide as they can manage . that drug be introduce in 2005 , and it be call the gold - standard treatment in our NHS . I can tell you that it be not gold standard ; it be not even plastic standard . it do not cure anyone ; it extend the life of very few people . Margaret could take only four to six week of it before her kidney collapse . what else be you offer ? a lifetime of pay your taxis , work hard , do your good , and there be no drug trial ; there be no alternative ; there be no hope . perhaps the unspoken advice be just to go home , lie down and wait to die . the only hope that do exist be in other country . family crowdfund and spend their life saving travel all over the world . in my case , I take a very ill Margaret on a plane to Germany every month . over the last decade , we have see a transformation in hope and life expectancy in relation to some cancer , but absolutely zero progress for brain tumour . member do not need to take my word for it ; they just need to check the fact at a glance . the average life expectancy for the 3 , 200 people who will be diagnose with a glioblastoma in the next year be nine month . the five - year survival rate be only 12 . 9 % . the sad fact speak for themselves : nothing have change ; nothing have improve ; and if we keep carry on down the same path , nothing will ever improve . on Friday , I receive an unsolicited text from Cancer Research UK , which tell I that together we be beat cancer and power progress , and I be to see how far we have come . you can imagine the irony with which I read that text . but it be not the same for all cancer . we know that great thing have be do . for lung cancer , in 2010 the five - year survival rate be 10 . 3 % , not dissimilar to the survival rate for glioblastoma ; the difference , however , be that by 2020 the five - year survival rate for lung cancer have double to 21 % . in 2020 , the five - year survival rate for breast cancer be 85 . 9 % . there have be a concerted effort by clinician , charity , the Government and family to make sure that people with breast , lung and bowel cancer live long , as they should . the sad truth be that brain cancer have be forget about , and because only 3 , 200 people be diagnose each year it be not profitable for the pharmaceutical industry to invest in it and find a cure . I promise that this speech will get a bit bright . I say early that the big insight I have gain through this process be that the treatment of brain tumour on the NHS have not improve in 30 year . the next thing I learn be equally important : it do not have to be this way ; there be solution , we just need to try something new . and here be my something new : my four - point plan to transform the outcome of people diagnose with a glioblastoma . first , we need a target of get 200 glioblastoma patient into clinical trial each year on a drug that have the potential to change the course of the disease . that would be 1 , 000 patient over the lifetime of a Parliament . with those trial , we can begin to understand what work and what do not . secondly , the NHS should repurpose every drug already license to deal with other tumour for clinical trial on brain tumour . that have not happen yet , because glioblastoma be a very small target market for the pharmaceutical industry . the Government must either encourage or ultimately force the pharmaceutical company to provide the drug for these trial . repurpose those drug would be a cheap way to make a huge difference . it be the only way that we can make a difference . thirdly , the NHS should ensure that every neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team have a medical oncologist who be a core member and be require to attend meeting to discuss patient , so that brain tumour patient be not leave in a corner of the ward because there be no specialist argue for they . unless a neuro - oncologist be in the room , we will not benefit from their idea or expertise . fourthly , the NHS should require that every doctor train to be a medical oncologist should go through a mandatory course on brain tumour . at the moment , the Royal College of Physicians require no compulsory training . doctor have to take two course on bowel cancer as part of their training , but nothing on brain tumour — believe I , they do not take the brain tumour option . the reason why there be nobody on those ward and the research infrastructure be not there be that nobody be be train or be excited to do the job . if we can do those four thing , we can have some hope . I have speak to Dr Paul Mulholland , the fantastic oncologist at University College Hospital , and he feel that he could find a cure within seven year . but it be not go to happen on its own , and it be certainly not go to happen if we carry on try the same thing we have be try for the last 30 year . Einstein famously say : " the definition of insanity be do the same thing over and over again and expect different result . " I think we be get to that point with the treatment of glioblastoma . it be time to break the mould , take a risk and try something different . Margaret ' s life require nothing less . I be sure I speak on behalf of the whole House in pass our condolence on to you , Siobhain , and your family . your dedication in care for Margaret be unsurpassed — we all know that — and your bravery and energy in the campaigning you have do since , at a time of such grief , be truly inspiring . we be all think of you , and thank you for make such a brave speech . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] this be the second time that I have hear the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) talk about glioblastoma in a debate . I be exceptionally close to my sister , and I think I would be do exactly the same thing if she be poorly , as Margaret be . at the time of the previous debate , Margaret be still with we , and now she be not , and I wish to send the hon . member all my love from this side of the House . I have never hear of glioblastoma until we have that debate in Westminster Hall . I have be a beneficiary of the advancement in the treatment of breast cancer , and I want she to know that I be here if she want cross - party support in any campaign for her four - point plan . I will stand with she to make sure that that happen , because I think it be really important that we work together to support each other on issue such as this . many of our constituent will unfortunately face the same situation that Margaret face and will not have the voice of a relative who stand up and speak so powerfully . I be with you on this campaign . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I pause momentarily to remember our dear colleague David Amess , who without doubt would have be here to speak today . David and I share a passion for animal welfare and be often at the same briefing event here on the estate . it be the ongoing badger cull that I wish to speak about today . to be honest , I have often feel very lonely in opposition to the badger cull on the Government Benches . my first speech on the subject , stand up for the voiceless badger from the same position that I stand in today , be meet with some aggressive groan from those sit within touching distance and follow by outrageous briefing against I both inside and outside the Chamber . many of those colleague have now leave , and those who remain who differ in their view do so respectfully . we have have some much well toned debate on the badger cull since , but I have not change my view that the cull be wrong . if anything , I feel vindicate that , some 10 year since it start , there be little proof that it have , by itself , work . the only thing that have change be the population of badger , which in some place be sadly now near extinction . why , when there be many local and national issue that I could be stand here speak about , be I choose to talk about the badger cull today ? the simple answer be that yet again , the goalpost have be move , only this time not by those pesky badger but by the Government themselves . it be report last week that the Secretary of State tell a National Farmers Union reception here in Westminster that she have scrap any arbitrary deadline for when we stop cull , contrary to the exit strategy of the previous Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , which would have see an effective end to the cull by 2025 . it be important to reflect briefly on the history of the cull . since first become involve in this debate through the lens of wildlife protection , I have often hear with great sadness about the immense financial and emotional pain that bovine tuberculosis cause farmer up and down the country . the devastation for a farmer when a skin test come back positive , virtually condemn their herd of cattle , be utterly heartbreaking . the groan at my speech aside , the testimony of colleague from rural south - west constituency in particular on behalf of their farming community have be hard for they to articulate and for other to hear . however , it have show that the fight be as much about ensure that farmer be support by the Government in implement the wide array of countermeasure to prevent TB as it be about protect badger , which be an iconic specie in the UK . with the support of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth , we have see investment in cattle vaccination , funding of gamma testing , vastly improve farm management practice and additional biosecurity measure . all of that have contribute significantly to the reduction of bovine TB ; there be little evidence that the cull have do the same . the Secretary of State say last week that she would be lead by science , which be also what the Government say in 2010 when they first announce their intention to introduce badger culling . however , when the science be say that badger culling have have no significant impact , it seem wrong to scrap the strategy that would have end intensive culling . my primary mission over the year have be to stand up for a much - love and legally protect specie . what we know now , after year of this cruel cull , be that the vast majority of bovine TB in cattle come as a result of cow - to - cow infection . it be spread within intensive farming production system , spill over into the wide environment and continue to infect animal , whether wild , farmed or domestic . thoughtful and consider improvement discuss by DEFRA official have help to manage , improve and control the spread of disease , and some farm — support by animal welfare campaign such as the Save Me Trust , the Badger Trust and bear Free — have BTB - free farm without the need for cull . the sad thing be that many badger who be cull be actually free of TB . one statistic that I recall seeing be that of the 102 , 000 badger cull between 2013 and 2019 , 900 be subject to post - mortem and test for bovine TB . of that number , less than 5 % be find to have bovine TB to a degree where they pose a risk of infect other badger , or possibly cattle . furthermore , the method of cull innocent , disease - free animal cause great pain . badger be sentient , and the inhumane cull method use cause they fear and pain . over three quarter of the badger cull in 2020 be cull by free shooting , where cull contractor shoot badger at night from a distance with a high - power rifle . that method of badger killing have increase year on year , and have rise to be the primary method : it use to be that half of badger cull be subject to death by free shooting , but now that figure be over 77 % . the independent expert panel form by the Government to monitor the efficacy and humaneness of the badger cull during its first two year find that free shooting be inhumane , due to the length of time badger could take to die . the IEP report that in the first year of the cull , between 6 . 4 % and 18 % of badger shot take over five minute to die of bullet wound , blood loss and organ failure . that panel make a number of key recommendation to improve the humaneness of cull operation , but it be disband in 2014 , prevent any further independent oversight of the cull policy . the British Veterinary Association have since withdraw its support for that method . in my view , the cull remain cruel , inhumane , and unnecessary in the fight to eradicate bovine TB . badger be the scapegoat — the victim of politic , rather than science . the way to solve bovine TB in cattle have always be to focus on cattle - base measure , include investment in cattle vaccination , proper testing , and continuous improvement in farming method . of course , that require Government funding , but if we be not spend ten of million of pound each year on cull , that money could have make a real difference elsewhere . I believe that DEFRA be look to do so through the policy announce in 2021 by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth . my constituent care passionately about animal welfare issue , and while my heart break for the farmer condemn to lose their herd due to bovine TB , I have always be of the view that the inhumane and intensive culling of badger be not the answer . it be never suppose to be forever , and my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , the current Secretary of State , say that she will be lead by science . I agree : let we be lead by the science and end this indiscriminate badger genocide . may I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word to my friend , the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) , and for what she say about her wonderful sister ? I believe that the hon . Lady herself be rather a doughty campaigner on breast cancer , have climb Mount Kilimanjaro and raise £ 153 , 000 , so congratulation to she and her team on do that . I climb Mount Kilimanjaro — a lot of year ago , I have to say , but there we be . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) , because it must have be very painful to bring what she tell we before the House , and I think that everybody who be listen will stand as one with she . those of we who know Margaret know that she do not deserve to experience what she do , and we remember she with affection . we be also committed to help my hon . friend with her campaign . may I begin by speak about the International Seabed Authority and deep - sea mining ? that might be a slightly odd topic for this afternoon , but it be nevertheless important and dramatically in need of bring before the House and the world authority . as we know , there be those who would seek to exploit the world ' s seabed for commercial reason . the purported logic be that we need to find the rare metal we use in our battery , mobile phone , electric vehicle and so on . however , there be increase concern in the scientific community that exploitation of the global seabed be a great risk . first , we know little about the seabed , and we do not know how much carbon be sequester there . we also know little about the impact that the toxic waste produce would have on life in the ocean and on life we as yet do not understand . some 60 scientist have write to our Prime Minister ask that he be part of a global coalition for a moratorium on exploitation of the seabed , and I hope that he and those on the Government Front Bench will listen seriously to those view . those scientist say in very straightforward term that the consequence of exploit the seabed would be potentially severe and irreversible , impact on the marine environment , its biodiversity and its ecosystem . give the lack of science available at the moment , we simply can not take the risk , and it be right that we have a moratorium in the short run — not a permanent ban , although that may well be where we should head . I say that because little be decide at the International Seabed Authority conference in July , except to defer decision about potential exploitation until next year . that mean that our Government now have time to join France , Sweden , Brazil , Chile , Costa Rica and a host of other country in make sure that the science be there before we even contemplate this destruction , which we will not be able to reverse if we allow it . that bring I to something else I want to raise in this pre - conference debate : the lack of global progress on climate change . the recent United Nations report indicate how far behind the world be on progress towards do what we need to do to stop the catastrophic temperature rise we be already experience . as we know , we have to do more in this country — I do not want to make this into a bipartisan political debate , and although the UK may not have do enough , it have make considerable effort on climate change — but we must also be part of the global coalition that recognise that this issue can not be solve in just one country . I hear an Environment Minister boast this morning that we be in the lead , but it be not good enough to be in the lead ; we need to be in the pack , make sure that the whole world be safe , and that mean transfer the technology and resource to the develop world , which simply be not be do today . the third little hobby horse I would be grateful to get off my chest be hs2 . I be not able to be here yesterday for the urgent question on hs2 , but let I just say that HS2 have long be promise to the north of England and the city of Manchester . it would liberate enormous economic potential in Manchester , but as importantly — perhaps more importantly — we know that the capacity of the west coast main line be very near full now . it will not be long before we simply can not ship our manufacture good from the north of England to the south and on through into Europe . this be not some slight argument about the pride of the north , although I be a proud northerner . it be not even about whether we can shave a few minute off the journey time between Manchester and London ; it be about whether our manufacturer be in a position to take advantage of the railway system and whether environmentally we be shift those heavy good vehicle off our motorway and road and make sure that our rail system have the capacity to carry those thing . that be no small issue , and it should not be resolve by a Prime Minister and Chancellor huddle together and a Government who be not prepared to come before the Chamber yesterday to give any definitive answer . as you will know as a northern MP , Madam Deputy Speaker , it would be see as a colossal betrayal of the north if we be to see HS2 abandon . by the way , that sentiment be express by Government Back Benchers as well as by Opposition Members . whether the line be up to Scotland or to different part of the north , there be the feeling that if the Government abandon the north in this way , it would say nothing at all for the future of the levelling - up agenda . I will finish on a slightly happy issue . I be not able to be here when tribute be be pay to the outgoing Clerk of the House , John Benger . I join those tribute , because I think John Benger have be not only an excellent Clerk of the House , but an excellent servant of the House over the many year that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I have know he . I be delighted that he occupy that place . he have do this House credit , and he will do great credit in his new role , and I look forward to he , as a good supporter of Manchester United , now be able to play a significant role in the fortune of our club , which be perhaps not as good as the fortune of the House of Commons . I will raise three matter in my brief remark this afternoon : public transport , specifically in relation to school ; antisocial behaviour ; and the rebuilding of Ukraine post - victory . in order to ensure that pupil and student do well in school , clearly and obviously we must first ensure that they can get to school safely and on time . I have be contact over the summer by many concerned parent about some local bus service be cut , which make it difficult to get their child to school on time or , in some case , at all . the West of England Combined Authority have receive £ 105 million for a bus service improvement plan , but it have decide that the 459 and the 460 bus service will be serve by the same vehicle . that lead to some child who attend Winterbourne Academy in particular arrive either absurdly early or very late . while some service have be cut back , other crucial bus service have be axe entirely , such as the 458 from Fishponds via Downend and the 936 from Patchway , Bradley Stoke and Little Stoke . my constituent and I would like to know where the £ 105 million to enable bus service to improve have go . unfortunately , while essential bus service for child be be cut , the vanity scheme of the West of England mayor be be roll out : the birthday bus pass scheme , which provide taxpayer - subsidise bus travel for passenger travel throughout the month of their birthday . it be clear to I that the Mayor of the West of England and South Gloucestershire Council be not sufficiently prioritise support child ' s bus service . I implore the West of England Mayor to stop waste taxpayer ' money and to answer my call to work with South Gloucestershire Council to deliver enough transport provision so that our child can get to school and back . the bus service that take our child to school be an important factor in reinforce the fabric of our community , reduce pollution and reduce commute traffic , in addition to maintain parent ' peace of mind . I have be work closely with my excellent colleague Councillor Liz Brennan on this issue and look forward to meet the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , to discuss local bus provision . in recent month we have see an increase in antisocial behaviour in Patchway and Stoke Gifford in my constituency . we have see the vandalising of child ' s playground and the reckless driving of car and e - scooter , which have lead to several accident — some of they be serious — not to mention the burning down of a playground in Stoke Gifford park by arsonist . what be more , local in Patchway have fall victim to be terrorise by thug in balaclavas , smash car window and cause great distress to resident . I have meet the police and crime commissioner , Mark Shelford , to discuss the rise in antisocial behaviour and what Avon and Somerset police will do about it . in addition , my colleague Councillor Gupta have raise the issue locally . I echo his concern to the Government . while some may choose to dismiss that as low - level crime , it must be deal with swiftly and robustly so as not to create the space or environment in which the same criminal could commit even bad offence . I recently go on my third visit to Ukraine so far this year . I attend the Yalta European Strategy conference , at which we discuss the power of Ukraine ' s ideal , how help Ukraine in its hour of need be good for global economic and political stability and security , and how we may bring this illegal and terrible war to an end . crucially , I would like to offer the House some idea and solution on how Ukraine may rebuild after russian force be expel from ukrainian sovereign territory . the New Lines Institute for Strategy and Policy have propose a system of multilateral asset transfer as a way of provide reparation to Ukraine and international partner who have help in the struggle . that would involve the United Kingdom and our ally identify and transfer all russian state asset within our jurisdiction to a central bank account , or to be hold in trust . with russian asset securely hold in trust , allocation procedure would be introduce in line with transparent multilateral agreement . another useful proposal be for a tax incentive for company invest in the UK and Ukraine , mean that more job and investment would come to the UK . that would help with some degree of infrastructure rebuilding in Ukraine . some of that could well be fund by the private sector . a third proposal be for Ukraine to receive some funding from the overseas development budget of ally nation . we must endeavour to build powerful bilateral relation between our two country , include our institution of trade and cultural exchange , defence manufacturing and logistic firm , and the industry of other sector . a strong bilateral relationship base on defence , security and trade with a long - term vision can help to keep Ukraine safe , sovereign and secure . Madam Deputy Speaker , I associate myself with your word about Margaret McDonagh and my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) — I let my hon . friend know that we be all here for she at any time of the day , whenever she need we . it be good to see my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Tony Lloyd ) back in his place . like the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , I want to channel Sir David Amess . he would always start his speech by go around his constituency , and I hope to do that too . I welcome the Treasurer of his Majesty ' s Household , the right hon . member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) , to his place — we be grace with his presence — and the new deputy shadow Leader of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) . I think they will find that this be one of the nice debate they will have ever respond to . I start with Bescot Stadium station , which have a footbridge link one platform with the other . however , those with disability can not access the platform , so Walsall ' s disabled supporter have to take the train into the town centre and come back just to get to the football ground . I meet with the Minister of State at the Department for Transport , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , who be helpful . he make the point that there have never be an application for Access for all funding . I find that disconcert , because these people be the most vulnerable in society and need access to the station . I hope to have a meeting with Network Rail , but could the Whip kindly find out whether there be any obligation under equality legislation that would enable we to appropriate those fund immediately , rather than have to wait for the next round of Access for all funding ? we would like to do it soon rather than later . even parent with pram find it difficult to access the station . walsall station will keep its ticket office , but sadly Bescot will lose its one . in the Westminster Hall debate , the Minister admit : " the change be about modernise the passenger experience , by move expert ticketing staff out of ticket office to be more visible and accessible around the station . " — [ Official Report , 13 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 346WH . ] the logic be not quite there . I be not clear why expert ticketing staff be move away from their job . could the Government please look again ? the second issue I want to raise be not about reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete but about the condition of my school in Walsall South . Joseph Leckie Academy be allocate £ 17 million under Building Schools for the Future , but that be cancel . the then Secretary of State mention that he make a mistake by cancel Building Schools for the Future . that school have have to bid every time for fund . give the issue go on with RAAC , the asbestos in the school and the condition improvement fund , I wonder whether the Whip could ask the Education Secretary to ensure that school be give the fund allocate immediately so that they can deal with the problem . Blue Coat Academy have to apply to the condition improvement fund just to fix the roof . it seem sensible that , rather than have to bid every year and waste money on surveyor ’ fee and other cost , they just have the fund already allocate to they . they be bid against each other , which be an appalling situation for school to be in . my third issue be about bus , like the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) — I forgot to say that it be a pleasure to follow he . we , too , have a vanity project — call the Sprint bus phase 2 — of the west midland Mayor . I do not know what it be about Mayors , and why they need to have vanity project . the Sprint bus have be withdraw from major city because it be not safe , but the Mayor seem to want to proceed . in fact , local authority try to cut down tree , but the community fight back and that be stop . now the West Midlands Combined Authority and the west midland transport authority want to widen the bus lane . my constituent Zena Owen have work out that it will shave off just one minute from the travel time . we have the excellent X51 and 51 bus route , which go from Walsall to Birmingham in 20 minute . my constituent be really happy with that . I can not see the logic of phase 2 . it will waste money , it will not cut time and passenger be happy with the current service . in fact , we be not even sure whether the X51 and the 51 service would continue . could the Whip please raise this issue with the Mayor , to tell he that we would like that vanity project to be stop ? my fourth point be about Government policy on foreign national offender . a foreign national offender be convict of attempt murder of one of my constituent . I have raise this issue many time with Ministers , and I have be tell that he can not be deport because he be engage his article 3 right to prevent torture and inhuman or degrading treatment . the foreign national offender can engage his article 3 right , but my constituent can not engage her article 2 right to life . the balance have be skew in favour of the foreign national offender . I want to know exactly what government policy be . be it for the offender or for the victim ? I understand that this foreign national offender will not be deport to the first country because there be an issue , but the Minister do have the discretion to look for another country that he could go to . my constituent live in fear . yes , she have be tell roughly where he be , but he could be anywhere . she be a public servant try to help he when she be stab in the neck . she nearly die . I do not think it be appropriate that she should continue to live under that fear . sadly , I be come on to another very difficult issue . I meet my constituent , 10 - year - old Sami , who be savage by a pit bull terrier . he go out with his football to play in his front garden and the pit bull terrier , which live two door down , come out and stick its tooth into his arm and would not let go . Sami be lucky to be alive . if it have be his baby brother , who be small than the dog , I do not think he would have survive . Sami ' s mother and a friend come out , but they could not get the dog off he . Sami have to wait 16 hour in Walsall Manor Hospital to get any treatment . his mother say he can not sleep at night — it be really difficult . Sami be extremely , extremely brave . I want to add my voice and ask the Minister to raise with the Home Secretary consider ban dog that be breed to attack and dog that have attack human , whether child or adult . it be not sufficient just to muzzle the dog , because attack can take place in the home . these dog be incredibly frightening , so that be my ask . Sami be make a recovery . he go to Reedswood Academy . I know he would be very pleased if the whole House join I in wish he a speedy recovery . finally , I want to mention two public servant . Glen Barnham , a colleague of mine , have sadly die . he be a councillor and we serve on Ealing Council together . he be a remarkable politician . he be first elect in 1971 and retire in 1990 . he be chair of social service when I be vice - chair and the budget be always protect . Glen have an amazing way with his constituent . when I go round to anybody ' s house in his Heathfield ward in Acton , there be always a picture of Glen , as though he be some sort of film star . that be apt , because he be a full - time organiser for Equity and play his part in ensure that people have decent term and condition when they work at the BBC . in fact , he suggest that I become a member of Equity — not for my acting skill , but when I have a stint on " Network East " . Glen be a director at the Brit School , and a director of Equity ' s charitable trust , and be involve with lot of other charity , such as the Marr - Munning Trust , which support overseas development in India . he be a great negotiator who be call on by charity and the Labour party to resolve dispute . he love jazz and be a member of the all - party parliamentary group on jazz . he stand for Parliament in Ealing and Acton twice , so he could have be one of we . he be passionate about the art , and be an adviser and volunteer at the Questors Theatre in Ealing . everyone who meet Glen — the many people who serve on Ealing Council and be now mp — always remember he with a smile . may he rest in peace . I be unable to be here when we pay tribute to the Clerk of the House . he first arrive in the House in 1986 , when I be first elect to Ealing Council . in his understated way , Sir John take over at a very challenging time . that be a mark of leadership . during the covid pandemic , he literally have our life in his hand . he have to balance decision on whether we have to come back or stay away . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , because we all serve on the Commission together , that he allow Parliament to function . it be a mark of his leadership that when he encourage people to do thing they make change , just as we do with the way we vote . Sir John also put together the " mps ' guide to Procedure " because he want to ensure that everything be clear . Joanna Dodd do amazing work in put it together , but it be Sir John ' s idea and I be sure everyone would agree that it be excellent . when I be shadow Leader of the House , he be always there to answer question and support I in the interest of Parliament . he quietly ensure that equality and diversity take an appropriate place and he mentor quite a few people who have take up leadership position . I bump into John late one evening , after he have do a full day ' s work in the House , and ask he , " be you go home now ? " he say , " no , I be go to give a lecture . I be go to talk to student " — I think it be at City University — " about how Parliament work . " I be sure that the Catz community — Catz be a nickname for St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge , and , for the benefit of the Official Reporters , it be spell C - A - t - z — will be regale , at their sherry party and dinner party , with all sort of story from the House , and I just say to Sir John , " please make sure they be all anonymised . " Sir John , we wish you all the good in your new career : it be an extremely exciting step . let I finally thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the House staff . I have see the carpet that be ready to be put in place in the old shadow Cabinet Room . staff be not go to be away have a nice time ; they will still be work here . they make our life very easy with all the work that they do , so I say , " thank you all very much . " I want to focus on three local concern . first , there be some good news . I warmly welcome yesterday ' s announcement of £ 5 million for a new community diagnostic centre at Congleton War Memorial Hospital . the security of the hospital ' s future have always be a priority for I , as the local Member of Parliament , not least because I know how much it mean to my constituent . Congleton War Memorial Hospital be fund by local subscription . many people agree to deduction from their pay packet to help with the building of the hospital , but its future have not always look secure , which be why not only I but my predecessor MPs have consistently campaign to keep it open and , indeed , secure its future . I be delighted that that consistent campaigning have be successful . it be in May this year that — on the most recent occasion — I ask the Health Secretary in the House for the expansion and modernisation of facility . I be delighted that £ 5 million of national funding have be provide to ensure that healthcare provision in Congleton will remain , and that work be plan to start soon and be finish very quickly , by autumn next year . there be to be a new " one - stop shop " offer NHS diagnostic test , scan and check close to home . East Cheshire NHS Trust have be award the £ 5 million by NHS England to re - engineer and expand the exist facility own by the trust on the Congleton War Memorial Hospital site . the new centre will provide multiple additional diagnostic screening room in addition to improve patient waiting facility and other amenity . the service deliver will focus on imaging , x - ray and non - obstetric ultrasound , and cardio - respiratory physiological testing such as electrocardiography , echo - cardiogram and other physiological test . they will also include some test and study that can be take away and perform from patient ' home . further testing from the site will be develop over time . this really be welcome news for the Congleton resident who fear for many year that their local hospital be in jeopardy , and I pay tribute to all the resident who have campaign and raise fund to support the hospital . let I now turn to a less happy local issue , which rear its head periodically over the year and which first come to my attention even before I be elect , in 2010 , as Member of Parliament for Congleton . I refer to the threat of the imposition of car parking charge in the town of Alsager , Middlewich , Sandbach and Holmes Chapel . the argument be put forward by Cheshire East Council be base on rationalisation , but one size do not fit all . it be true that there be some place in Cheshire East where charge already apply , but large town such as Macclesfield , Crewe and even Nantwich be completely different from small community such as Holmes Chapel , which be actually a village , and I strongly support resident ' objection to these proposal . we have fight this off before , and we can fight it off again . I therefore urge resident to lodge objection on the consultation section of the Cheshire East website , which open tomorrow , 20 September , and close on 1 November . as Alsager Town Council have say , the negative impact on the economy of impose these charge would far outweigh the revenue anticipate from they . small independent shop and caf é s would be particularly vulnerable to a reduction in people come into these centre and , as we know , many small business live on the margin . the significant loss of community spirit that could ensue have also be highlight by Alsager Town Council , so I urge all resident concern about this issue to contribute to the consultation , to make their voice know and to object . I shall turn now to a happy local issue and take this opportunity to pay tribute to a number of resident who have be grant the freedom of their town this month . just two day ago at the annual civic service in Middlewich , hold at St Michael and all Angels church , three resident be grant the freedom of Middlewich . I be not sure whether any of they have any sheep that they can drive down the high street , but I want to pay tribute to all of they , whom I know well . they be Janet Chisholm BEM , who found the Middlewich Clean Team ; Ken Kingston , who have do so much work with the British Legion ; and David Cooke , who have help to run the Boys Brigade in Middlewich for many year . I know at first hand the substantial contribution that all three have make to local community life , and by grant they the freedom of Middlewich , the mayor of Middlewich , Councillor Colin Coules , have recognise their contribution in a way that they all very much deserve . I would also like to pay tribute to Ronald Tyson , who be well know to all of we locally as Ron Tyson . early this month , at St Mary ' s Alsager , he be grant the freedom of the town of Alsager for service to the community . he serve for 28 year on Alsager Town Council and the Alsager Institute collectively . he serve as chairman of the town council three time , and this award to Ron be very well deserve . my heartfelt congratulation go to they all . it be interesting that last Sunday at the Holmes Chapel community service , which be organise by the parish council and hold at St Luke ' s parish church , Councillor Chris Jackson say that it be a measure of the healthy community life in Holmes Chapel that invitation to the civic service have be extend to over 100 local community group . it be a privilege for I to serve the constituency of Congleton , with its strong community life , and it be a particular pleasure today for I to welcome one of those community group , Holmes Chapel Youth Council , who have be in the Gallery to listen to some of this debate . some 14 of those young people come to Parliament today and ask I some very tax question . I concur with Councillor Chris Jackson that it really be a measure of our healthy community life that we have such a strong youth council in Holmes Chapel . my thank go to all my constituent who contribute so greatly to the quality of life in my constituency . I just want to put on record that I be very sad that the town of Middlewich have be remove from my constituency by the Boundary Commission , because it be a wonderful local community with many strongly committed resident , such as those I have speak of today . I will very much miss represent Middlewich if I be re - elect at the next general election . Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to begin by say how much I admire the way in which you so sensitively and generously respond to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) when she speak about her campaign on glioblastoma in memory of her sister . you really do speak for the whole House , and it be greatly appreciate . the pleasure of participate in such a debate be in the range of topic cover , and I agree with many of the subject that have be choose . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) speak very well about the badger cull and the importance of science , and my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Tony Lloyd ) speak very well about the importance of science in deep - sea mining . sometimes we need to fact - check our speech , and I take the opportunity to fact - check the complaint make by the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) about the Mayor of London give himself an exemption on his car . I be reliably inform by the Mayor ' s office that this be not the case , and that the Mayor ' s own car do not have an exemption . as we think of Sir David , who be such a part of this particular debate , we need to temper our criticism so that people who be as high in public life as the Mayor be not unduly target . I thank my hon . friend for correct the record . it be so important that Parliament , above all , have correct information . we can not let misinformation flourish , give how social media go round and round very quickly , which can be detrimental to the public discourse . I challenge the House to fill in the missing word . as safe as — [ hon . member : " Houses . " ] member have say it but , for too many people , that saying have become a rather sick joke . today I want to share the story of my constituent for whom their house , their home , have be anything but safe . Damask Court , a block of flat in my Brent North constituency , be complete in 2014 . I be first approach by resident in March 2019 , and they report that their building be " sway . " the floor be move and , in high wind , the whole building shake . I be tell that the roof be leak so badly that water pour through the electrical socket and the window have drop by 8 cm in two month . as the House could imagine , I immediately visit the property and take photograph of water stream through the light fitting and dripping on to a child ' s bed . the same day , I write to the chief executive and the chair of the board of Apna Ghar Housing Association , which own the block . I also write to Steve Wood , the chief executive of the National House Building Council , which have provide the warranty for the development . six week later , on 1 May 2019 , NHBC reply state that these structural issue have be report by tenant to the builder , Parritt Bellamy , within its two - year liability period , but that Parritt Bellamy have go into administration and the original development company , Asra Housing , have simply sell up and walk away . the NHBC visit the property to assess the structural issue under part b of its Buildmark warranty , and this be where the problem should have stop . they do not . they be only just begin . at the end of November , I discover that : essential support for the core of the building be miss ; the floor be overstress , cause the sway movement when resident walk across they ; the roof have be incorrectly fit , cause the leak ; the floor throughout the flat be bow ; and the balcony floor be defective . Apna Ghar , the new owner of the development , advise resident in December that it have submit a claim to the NHBC . it also advise that its chief executive be leave the housing association " with immediate effect . " as the problem unfold , this become a repeat pattern . everyone simply walk away , except for the tenant , of course . they be trap — trap in an unsafe building . in 2019 , I ask the NHBC to clarify when the investigation work would be complete . I request a copy of the full report when it become available and ask for a date when the remediation would commence . I do not receive a copy of the report , but at the end of July 2019 the NHBC say the investigation be complete and that it have offer Apna Ghar two option to settle the claim . at that point , Apna Ghar go incommunicado , so in October I arrange to meet two representative from the NHBC . they be apologetic , they fully understand the serious concern raise by resident and they be anxious to do everything possible to resolve the matter . they promise to revert to I and provide a full update . I feel reassure , but I be mistaken , as I never do receive their full report . during the general election period in December 2019 , another tenant contact I , and she be extremely distressed . her letter say that " the building be constantly shake , my home flood whenever it rain and I be unable to sleep for fear of the building fall down . I and my three child go to bed fully clothe , with our shoe on , in case we need to leave the building quickly . " I be so concerned that I immediately visit her home , and it be truly shocking . I demand a meeting with the new chief executive of Apna Ghar and show he the photographic and video evidence of what I have witness — and then the country go into complete lockdown . I continue to write to Apna Ghar throughout 2020 and 2021 , but I receive no response . the reason I be eventually give be that after our meeting the chief executive have resign and not be replace — another person have simply walk away . I learn from another resident that Apna Ghar have write to they claim that it be in regular contact with NHBC and that there be no reported structural issue within the building . that be a lie . I again demand that Apna Ghar should provide I with a copy of the independent report , but , again , there be a total failure to respond . it would not even provide copy of the first and second stage complaint , which would have allow I to refer the matter to the ombudsman . in March of last year , another resident in the block advise that because of the leak and the water damage , which have not be repair for seven month , her three child be all sleep in one room . all these family have be fail at the high level . there have be a total disregard from Apna Ghar of its legal obligation under section 11 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 and under the Environmental Protection Act 1990 , and of the duty set out in section 4 of the Defective Premises Act 1972 . in January of this year , when one of my constituent lodge a formal complaint , she receive a response from solicitor employ by Apna Ghar , who acknowledge that she have indeed report that her bathroom floor be damage in December 2021 and admit that this have not be fix by September 2022 . however , they claim that because the member of staff who receive the original message no long work there , they could not help . the same legal team have claim that it be not Apna Ghar ' s fault , because their client acquire the block from another register provider of social housing . what my constituent want to know be : when Apna Ghar acquire Damask Court , be it aware of the structural problem that have already be report to the builder and the developer ? what due diligence be undertake before take ownership of the block ? do it purchase Damask Court at a discount price because of the problem ? the same solicitor have now also advise I that there be " ongoing discussion with the National House Building Council ( NHBC ) regard the defect affect the block . " that be strange , give that I have already be tell back in 2019 that the NHBC have make an offer to the housing association to pay for the remediation of the whole building . four year on , the solicitor be apparently instruct that the NHBC claim will " need to be resolve " , that remedy the defect be go to require " a significant programme of work " , but that all complaint to date have be " handle within a reasonable period of time . " that be nonsense . the fact be that nobody , not the quantity surveyor , the project manager , the building control officer , the builder or the developer , and not the NHBC , should ever have sign off that building as fit to live in — it never be . Parritt Bellamy , the builder , walk away ; Asra Housing Group , the developer , walk away ; two chief executive of Apna Ghar walk away ; and yesterday I receive from a resident a copy of a notice from the act chief executive of Apna Ghar Housing Association , advise the resident of Damask Court that " your new landlord will be Tamil Housing Association " . yes — finally it seem that Apna Ghar be walk away too . the Building Safety Act 2022 provide no relief to my constituent in Damask Court . the Government know there be thousand of family go to sleep tonight in unsafe apartment building — go to sleep like that little family who confess to I that they go to bed fully clothe and with their shoe on , just in case they have to get out quickly in the night . I have just one question for the Minister : when will the Government act to end this misery ? it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) , and it be always a pleasure to contribute to debate that raise matter before an Adjournment , because they be so eclectic and we can learn so much about the constituency of other member . like other member , I pay particular tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) for her very move speech . all our condolence be with she , as she know . I want to take the opportunity to talk about my constituency and the borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme , as this year mark the 850th anniversary of our charter , which be a significant moment . I be not the only MP for the borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme . the famous Kidsgrove and Talke , which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) append to the name of his constituency , be also in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) also have small part of either end of the borough in their constituency . however , I have the honour of represent the vast bulk of the borough , include the town of Newcastle - under - Lyme , and on this 850th anniversary I want to put on record a little of our history and to thank some of the people who be enhance that history even now . the leader of the council , Councillor Simon Tagg , our mayor , Councillor Simon White , and all the council officer have put in a huge amount of work to commemorate this historic year . we have have an action - pack calendar of cultural and heritage activity throughout the year , include a celebration of some of our famous and influential resident , past and present . we have have civic event , exhibition , film showing , talk , a medieval day in the town centre , educational content and a range of family - friendly activity . I put on record my thank to Jim Worgan , who be the most passionate and prolific of local historian . he have do most of the heavy lifting in put together the history of Newcastle - under - Lyme . back in 2021 , it be appropriate that he be award the freedom of the borough — I be there at the ceremony . he be a local community stalwart , who work in the mining industry for 32 year , which I will come on to discuss , and he have be a key member of various organisation , include the Philip Astley Project , the Newcastle - under - Lyme Civic Society and the Friends of Brampton Museum . I pay tribute to Jim Worgan for all he do to keep the historical memory of Newcastle - under - Lyme alive . our story , over the past 850 year , have be one of reinvention . many town be have to reinvent themselves yet again , as I will discuss . we have be a market town , a major coaching stop on the London to Liverpool road , a place for make hat and clay tobacco pipe , the engine of the pottery next door in Stoke - on - Trent , and the home of brickmaker , iron caster , engineer and , perhaps most famously , miner since the 19th century , although there have be coal for a lot long than that . in 1173 , King Henry II grant Newcastle - under - Lyme its royal charter , and it be that charter that we be celebrate this year . the charter release the up - and - come town from the control of the prior of Trentham and turn Newcastle into a borough — the ancient and royal borough , as we now know it . with the charter come new right and responsibility . in exchange for an annual fee to the King , a privileged few be allow to set up their own shop and market stall on burgage plot , initially by Upper Green and later on the high ground of the High Street . they be also provide with common field on which to grow crop . those early inhabitant of the town be call burgess . they enforce local law and collect taxis on behalf of the King . I be pleased to say that only this year , as part of the 850th anniversary of the charter , and with a little bit of pressure from myself , if I may be so modest , we manage to get woman to be allow to be admit to the burgess . that be not before time — 850 year on — but that change require the burgess themselves to vote for it and they have be reluctant to do that in the past . I be glad that we have make that progressive step now , in 2023 . thirteen subsequent charter , between 1173 and 1970 , extend and confirm the town ' s right . the Gild Merchant Charter of 1235 create a closed shop in which only Newcastle people could sell certain good and service in Newcastle . we on the conservative Benches be not much in favour of closed shop , but give that it happen in the 13th century I think we can perhaps be forgive for mention it . by the end of that century , Newcastle be a thriving small town , with a castle , a church , a priory , a guildhall and a market , and many of those be still in evidence today . for much of the next few hundred year , we be the most important town in north Staffordshire , predate Stoke - on - Trent — those upstart to our east — by some century . our location on the north - south route make we an important stop place for horse - draw coach go from London to Chester and Liverpool . we be also a centre for clockmaking , mining , early porcelain and agriculture . by the 1800 — I be skip forward a bit because the House probably do not want to hear about every century in great detail — we be a bustling and prosperous town . [ interruption . ] oh , my hon . friend do want to hear about every century . I be very happy to share Jim Worgan ' s entire document with they if they want to know more about Newcastle - under - Lyme . Newcastle flourish as a market town , serve both local resident and overnight traveller who rest at the many coach inn and hotel along the high street and the Ironmarket — again so call because of the iron there , and that be where my constituency shop be today . we be also a centre of culture , which continue today . we have many market day and fair , attract showman , carnival performer and all kind of outdoor entertainment . indeed , the founder of the modern circus , Philip Astley , who predate Barnum by a century , be bear in Newcastle - under - Lyme . this summer , we have an exhibition about the history of circus in Newcastle - under - Lyme and all the show folk who have contribute to that heritage . as I have say , we be also well know for our hat make industry . during the 19th century , we be produce pottery , which be more associate with Stoke - on - Trent next door . we have canal in the area . the industrial revolution change the landscape of Newcastle , culturally , economically and physically . with the plentiful reserve of coal and iron in the mine , our burgeon industry have the fuel they need to power their mill . although mining have take place in Newcastle since the roman time , it be the industrialisation of mining that lead to the significant growth of the borough . I refer to that in my maiden speech , so I will not repeat it today . none the less , our coal be among the fine in the kingdom , which be why Stoke - on - Trent and its kiln be where they be . that industrial and mining heritage in north Staffordshire be proudly remember . the last pit to close be Silverdale in 1998 . I always know that the work that the miner undertake be hard and dangerous , and we do suffer more than most with major disaster at Diglake in 1895 , Minnie pit in 1918 , and Holditch in 1937 . there be frequent memorial , where we remember the name of those people who lose their life in those tragedy . that be a real part of our cultural and emotional heritage in Newcastle - under - Lyme . notably , there be an attempt in this House in 1930 to extend Stoke - on - Trent by amalgamate it with Newcastle - under - Lyme and Wolstanton , completely against the wish of the people of Newcastle . this House pass that measure , but , happily , we be save by the Lords . a postcard poll take at the time show that resident oppose that Bill by a majority of 97 . 4 % , which be a pretty good outcome . I be glad that the Lords save we from be swallow up by the people of Stoke - on - Trent , because otherwise we would not be have these 850th anniversary celebration today . traditional industry have decline , and that be a story that many of we in this House share — I know that you know about that in Doncaster , Madam Deputy Speaker — but new industry be take their place . we have see a huge growth in the service sector and in high - tech industry in my area . of particular note be the spectacular success of the science park at Keele , where some of the first covid vaccine be manufacture . in 1999 , we start a single innovation centre , which now have multiple building , include a management centre . Keele University have become a leader in green energy , house a smart energy network demonstrator . wind turbine and a solar farm all contribute to the way in which university and other public building will be able to power themselves in future . we still have a number of very good engineering firm on our business park , particularly in metalwork . sadly , though , the past two decade have see a significant decline in town centre across the country , and Newcastle be no exception . that have be something big than politic . it be about shopping habit ; it be about the internet . first , it be about people shop in supermarket , but , increasingly , it have become about people shop on Amazon . the stalwart of the high street of the past — Woolworths , Debenhams and British Homes Stores — be all go . this government be do something about that through the future high street fund and the town deal . the borough be due to benefit from more than £ 50 million of investment from those fund in the come year . that work be happen right now . we have £ 35 million to regenerate the town centre ; £ 11 million through the future high street fund have already be use to demolish the old civic office , which be riddle with asbestos . that area will be rebuild soon with residential and commercial premise on the Ryecroft , which have be leave empty for too long , and we will bolster the town ' s shopping and leisure facility with a new , more modern and more welcoming market . some of that investment be already visible . an employment , training and skill hub have open in Lancaster Buildings , and the subway to get under the ring road , which unfortunately do circumscribe the town centre a bit , have be give a spruce - up with some fantastic artwork . we will also see some major construction project , particularly the redevelopment of York Place , come soon . we be get a new multi - storey car park , new open plaza and public space , and well pedestrian and cycle connection to the residential area . the town deal — as the town ' s MP , I be obviously a member of that board — have be give £ 23 . 6 million . that funding will be allocate across nine separate project , include improve public transport , well digital provision , the renovation of gateway site into the town centre , new housing and investment into some of the most deprived community in Knutton and Chesterton . it will also be use to improve both digital and transport connectivity locally . the Government funding will be match by other investment , in a programme that we hope will ultimately total more than £ 135 million . on top of that , we have commission a statute of her late Majesty the Queen to go into queen ' s Gardens , which be so name because of the enormous and beautiful statue of Queen Victoria there , just opposite my constituency office and in front of the council office . we will now have two queen , Victoria and Elizabeth , side by side , and I look forward to the unveiling . finally — I be conscious that I have speak for a while in go over the history — we be still blight by Walleys Quarry , which I have mention many time in this House , include in previous debate before adjournment . the smell be quite a lot well , though it do still smell on occasion , but we now really need to see accountability . only last week , there be yet another category 2 breach report against the operator of Walleys Quarry Ltd , whose parent company be Red Industries . Environment Agency guidance suggest that a prosecution should follow . I can not pre - empt the Environment Agency ' s investigation , but I know everyone in Newcastle want to see it draw both its regulatory and criminal investigation to a conclusion and achieve proper accountability for what people have be through . as I have tell this House many time , the situation have be completely unacceptable and we really need to see some accountability . overall , I remain committed to ensure that the future of our town , which I be so proud to represent , be bright and prosperous . I will continue to work with the council , especially the council leader , Simon Tagg , in any way I can to bring more investment into Newcastle in the year ahead , to enable the improvement that we all want to see . I be pleased to follow my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) . I be glad to hear how progressive , historic and industrial his area be and about his work to stop that stink . it be a huge pleasure to represent the wonderful constituency of Dover and Deal , which have a similar mining heritage to the one my hon . friend outline . however , like any community , it be not without some challenge , so before the come Adjournment I want to touch on the area of work that I have be undertake to bring service improvement and investment to Deal , Walmer and the village , an area that make up around half of my constituency , with some 30 , 000 people . first , there be the water and sewerage system . part of Deal have an old - style Bazalgette system to deal with its water and sewage , which have contribute to decade - long flooding , particularly around the Albert Road area of Deal . I jointly lead the Deal Water Action Taskforce , have put that taskforce together with Southern Water to try to come up with some technical , sensible , practical solution to the problem . we be work to put the situation right , with more than £ 500 , 000 - worth of flood reduction investment already make in the town and further engineering and nature - base investment in our local water and sewerage system to come . not only will that investment help with the decade - long flooding in Albert Road , but it will make our community an early adopter of the conservative commitment to end sea sewage discharge . there be a parliamentary showcase upcoming , and I hope some hon . member might be interested in come to learn more about the cutting - edge work that we have be do in that vital area . perhaps one of the Ministers from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs might attend too . secondly , I come on to law and order . while ours be generally an area without the level of crime and disorder see elsewhere , which be describe early in this debate , there have be specific issue of antisocial behaviour , with dangerous motorbiking in Nonington and car race around Betteshanger , while Deal have see some frankly unpleasant youth activity in Victoria Park and the cemetery . fly - tipping have be on the increase , too . follow my representation to our Conservative Police and Crime Commissioner Matthew Scott , I be pleased to confirm that he be implement a new community police response , support by the extra funding and resource provide by the Conservative Government . the response will see a " front - counter " police presence in Deal , open to local resident . I be press Matthew Scott for the recruitment and opening of that initiative to be accelerate . it will be a significant new one - stop shop for local people in the town . there will also be a new dedicated antisocial behaviour taskforce and a boost to very important rural village police . many villager often feel overlook by local policing , and the police and crime commissioner be work hard to address that . the new measure will mean that Deal , Walmer and our local village will benefit from specific police support to tackle important local policing and community issue . well healthcare be a key issue that I be work on for Dover and Deal as a whole . later today , I will present a community petition about the closure of phlebotomy service at Deal hospital and the move to a GP - only blood testing service , which have not work and be let our community down . over the last two year we have have a hard - fought community campaign to reinstate these vital service , with petition , candlelight vigil and a community consultation that attract the interest of more than 14 , 000 resident across Deal , Walmer , Sholden , Kingsdown , Ripple and Great Mongeham . the consultation , which I lead , work with the Deal blood action taskforce group , find that resident be have to travel four or more hour for a blood test , and at great cost . some resident pay more than £ 30 to travel to get a local blood test . I say " local blood test " because the commission condition from local health chief be that , after the move from Deal hospital to GPs , every resident would have access to local blood test , but that be not happen . specific group of people have be particularly affect by the decision to close phlebotomy service at Deal hospital , include resident with diabetes , cancer and long - term health condition ; old resident with mobility or financial challenge ; and child , for whom no provision be make follow the closure , and who be miss school — and their parent miss work — to get their blood test do outside the area . blood test be not just a nice to have ; they be a fundamental and basic part of our health system . not have timely access to local blood service can prevent early diagnosis and intervention , and result in patient remain on the wrong medicine , harm their health outcome . such blood service be important , so I be pleased to report that the Kent and Medway integrate care board have now agree that the need of the priority group identify by the deal blood action team must be address . the ICB say that it will procure blood service again shortly , with a view to restart they in 2024 . I welcome the long overdue and slow recognition of the immense harm that that decision of nearly two year ago have cause local resident . give the seriousness of the issue , it be obviously most sensible to reinstate the service at Deal hospital without delay . that be what my petition will set out . from police , flooding and pothole to restore high - speed rail and protect the important marine habitat of the Goodwin Sands , it be a great pleasure to represent Deal , Walmer and our local village . I be pleased to have update the House on the work to secure improvement for and investment in our lovely corner of east Kent . it be a pleasure to speak in this Adjournment debate . this Government be in part elect on a promise to level up to ensure that my constituent in Blackpool receive exactly the same life chance as people in every single part of our United Kingdom . my local authority be statistically the most in need of level up ; indeed , I probably represent the most deprived constituency in England , and I be delighted to say that , thank to the unprecedented commitment and support from this Government , our levelling - up progress be go from strength to strength . an additional revenue and capital investment of £ 300 million have fly into Blackpool South as a consequence of the faith and confidence from this Government in the work go on locally . it be easy to speak about level up and sometimes political figure from different party will want to see evidence of what be actually happen — spade in the ground — to address some of the systemic challenge in Blackpool and many other leave - behind town . level up be not a four - year or five - year project ; it be an intergenerational challenge that will take commitment from both main political party over decade and decade if indeed it be to bear any substantial fruit . thankfully , the investment we have receive be lead to spade in the ground in Blackpool and we be now reap the reward of the confidence the Government have show in we . I could be here until midnight discuss all the different funding pot this government have provide to Blackpool South , but I will take just a few moment to give the House a flavour of some of the positive initiative take place in my constituency : the large town deal in the country , with £ 39 . 5 million come into Blackpool to deliver a plethora of project ; a new sport village at Revoe in conjunction with Blackpool football club ; an upgrade to the world - famous Illuminations ; help to create thousand of job at the Blackpool enterprise zone ; and a new start - up hub in the town centre . move on , there be £ 40 million for a brand - new multiversity skill complex from the levelling - up fund , which will not only change immeasurably very deprived part of Blackpool but will lead to a breaking down of some of the educational challenge and put a stop to the brain drain when our youngster leave key stage 5 . there be £ 8 million from the levelling - up budget to convert a derelict hotel in the town centre , and £ 8 . 6 million from the future high street fund to fund development to the Houndshill shopping centre and the Abingdon Street market , both of which be well under way . there be an additional £ 40 million to relocate the court complex , allow the large single private - sector development project in Lancashire to go ahead over the next few year . there be also £ 300 million - worth of capital investment come into Blackpool to create million of pound of additional consumer spend every single year and thousand of extra job . that be all thank to this Government ' s commitment to level up Blackpool . but we will not stop there , because the list be endless : £ 10 million extra in education funding because we be an opportunity area , help to close the gap that have emerge as a consequence of the covid pandemic ; a £ 25 million new upgrade to our a & E , mean the front door of A & E have be completely rejuvenate , lead to short waiting time in A & E , and help patient move throughout their journey in the hospital ; £ 67 . 8 million in write off the historical debt to Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , mean more money can now be free up for the frontline to spend on patient , rather than in debt receipt ; £ 20 million for new electric bus ; £ 9 . 5 million from the bus and light rail fun ; £ 4 . 8 million for Project ADDER , to help remove off the street of Blackpool some of the drug gang that cause misery to my constituent ; and in only the last few week we receive a multimillion - pound funding settlement to help youth offend initiative in Blackpool , lead by the exemplary Dave Blacker and the Blackpool boy and girl club — a brilliant initiative that will change the life of people in one of the country ' s most deprive ward . in addition to that — I have nearly finish — we have £ 118 million in flood defence work go on in Blackpool , which will secure the front of the world - famous Blackpool seafront ; over £ 5 million help to address rough sleeping and homelessness ; and £ 4 . 8 million from the culture recovery fund be spend by a variety of project , include the fantastic Blackpool theatre group . all in all , there be £ 300 million of investment come into Blackpool . it be easy to reel off a list of the different investment come into a particular area , but I can honestly say , have see at first hand the change this money be make , that it be turn people ' s live around . it be help to address the educational challenge and give people who have be out of the job market for year a new foothold and a commitment to our society , to find a job and to contribute . it be address some of the systemic health inequality that have plague Blackpool for decade , which mean that in part of my constituency life expectancy be 20 year low than in the most affluent part of our country — something that successive government , red and blue , have tolerate for year but that , thank to the commitment from this Government , we be finally serious about address . those be some of the brilliant initiative go on in Blackpool , but as ever , Blackpool be Blackpool , we always want more . I hope that those on the Treasury Bench be listen to my final few request for funding in Blackpool during this Parliament and the difference it will make to our local economy and the life of my constituent . the first of those be housing - lead regeneration in the Bond Street , Waterloo Road and Revoe area of my constituency , which be among the 1 % most deprive neighbourhood in the country . my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) have be fantastic in his commitment to Blackpool and , indeed , level up more generally over the past few year . the £ 30 million package that he be work on in conjunction with Blackpool Council will help to change those area forever , give they a new lease of life and address some of the systemic challenge that resident in those community have face for year . I hope that work will continue and that we will get a commitment from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to that funding , which be badly require . my second request be for a commitment to Blackpool airport . own and run by the Labour - run council , it use to operate successful commercial passenger flight throughout Europe , but that be no long the case , due to a lack of interest from the council . the Government have bring in several change that have revolutionise the landscape of domestic aviation and regional airport — not least the cut to air passenger duty — but further work be require around public service obligation to ensure that we can maximise the economic potential and job - create growth of place such as Blackpool airport . my final request be on more of a national issue , but it be worthy of a mention , consider that not a day go by when I do not receive several email from constituent about the lack of NHS dentistry . I have unfortunately speak to some constituent who have tell I harrowing story about have to take plier to their child ' s tooth because they can not afford a private dentist , and there be no long any NHS dental practice in Blackpool that be open to new patient . it be quite a shocking story , consider we be in the 21st century . the Government ' s recent change to the NHS dental contract be welcome , but there be far more work to do to address the issue of NHS dentistry , particularly in so - call dental desert , such as Blackpool , where few dental practitioner want to work . the House have indulge I for far too long . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I take this opportunity to wish you and member an enjoyable recess ? I be the very proud MP for Bury North , but I be bear and bring up in Huddersfield . before I get into politic , two thing strike I as the first political question . they might not seem to be political question , but when we think about it , they be . one be Bradley Mills cricket club , which be found in 1875 in an industrial , disadvantaged part of Huddersfield . it go through two world war , the great depression , the Boer war and everything the world could throw at it over 100 year . the local community see it as a focal point and an identity ; it be who they be , what they be and what they be about . it be a place where family go and people meet , and it be central to that community . in the late 1990 , the local community give up on it , and a huge green area — a field that have be use by child , family and people play competitive sport — be lose forever . I could never understand why the community keep that club and what it represent to they go for that whole period of time , but in the 1990 something happen and it fall apart . like many of we , I spend my youth follow my dad around . he play amateur football , and the good team in Huddersfield be call Brackenhall . they play football on Leeds Road playing field , not very far away from Bradley Mills cricket club . that team be base in an area of disadvantage , but they be a team full of local people , a proud symbol of what Brackenhall be about . that mean something to people — look back at the old photo , we can not quantify that now , but it mean something . in the 2000 , that be lose . why do this matter ? it go back to what my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) be talk about : unless we have civic pride — unless we have some feeling for the area we be from — our area be go to fail . we be not simply individual , link only by how close we live to each other or who we come into contact with . we have to have share , collective experience , and there must be symbol of those share collective experience that link we and bind we . I could read out a very long list of what have come into Bury during my time as a Member of Parliament , but I just want to make the point that through the effort of the Secretary of State for Levelling up , bury football club be resurrect at Gigg Lane . that be the 12th old sporting stadium in the world , but it have be leave abandon by bad management , bad regulation and the league , and be at real risk of be sell to developer . by provide £ 1 million , this Government save that stadium , and it be now a facility that be run by the fan for the people of Bury and the local community . I will use those three example to touch on what we should be talk about in this place . we in this place be incredibly bad at talk in any term other than monetary one . we talk in monetary term about everything , all the time . clearly , that be incredibly important , but we do not often hear speech like that of my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , celebrate and lionise their community and say , " there be something else within this community that you can be proud of . " how do politician take advantage of that ? some 5 , 500 people attend the first match at Bury — 5 , 500 people in one place . there be no other facility in the metropolitan borough of Bury where 5 , 000 people can come together in one place . as politician , we can say , " that ' s just the way it be . that ' s football ; it ' s a nice pastime . " or we can say , as this Government do , " let ' s work in partnership . let ' s take those thing that matter to people and look to invest in that stadium and that community . " Gigg Lane proudly sit in an area with a wide variety of people from different background . how do we ensure that those 5 , 000 people have access to the good facility , service , option and advice that they can get ? we put they in the football stadium . we do not put they in a town centre or a long way away : we bring facility and service in partnership to where people want to be , and where they be receptive . in life , we all need a little bit of hope and inspiration when we get out of bed . when bury football club disappear from my town , a little bit of hope disappear in a lot of people . with that club come back , there be hope and a certain inspiration to want to play for town . that be important . what Brackenhall and Bradley Mills lose when they lose their community be very important , because nothing replace it . at this moment in time , we be create a society of individual who be link by money and talk to each other on social medium . we no long interact as local community . politic start when you walk out of your front door — when you open that door and you nearly trip over that pavement that need to be fix . you see the pothole on the road that need to be sort out . you see the lamppost where the light be not work and the bus that be probably go to be late . all those thing matter to people , and if you see those thing around you , do that mean that your community be a proud community , one that be work at its good for each other ? no , it do not . we need the symbol of civic pride . Madam Deputy Speaker , you be from the great city of Doncaster ; we be from nearly the same part of the world , the north of England . these be the great industrial centre of the north of England . when I say to people that I be bear in Huddersfield , they often say , " you ' re not bear in Bury ? how can you understand what it ' s like to be from Bury ? " of course , you can . People in these industrial centre of the north be all link by the same thing in their heart — the same passion for where they be from . in the first world war , we see the Accrington Pals and other like they go to war together , but we do not do thing as a community any more , and we never talk about community in this place . I would like to see an understanding of how investment in community , which my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme talk about , and investment in facility and symbol of civic pride can impact the political process , and I would like to see that push up the political agenda . I be proud for many reason to be an MP in this government , but level up be a political idea of genius because it give money to local people to invest in facility and service that can benefit they . if service do not link people in to want to see their area improve , it be all a complete waste of time , but the Government have fund numerous project that have give a sense of identity , pride and passion back to the community we live in , which be ignore in the north of England for the 40 to 50 year before that . we should invest more in sport , invest more in public health and invest more in our culture , and then we will have a well political system . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate before the forthcoming Adjournment . it be also a pleasure to follow the absolutely outstanding speech by my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) . I pay tribute to the member for Mitcham and Morden for her really heartfelt speech — it be a real honour to be in the Chamber to listen to it . I know a little about what she be go through , because my father also die of a brain tumour . like my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , I will work with the hon . Lady , if she would like that , to bring her plan forward . hopefully it will be take up , because it be a jolly good plan , and I know what she be go through . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , because I get to talk about Peterborough — my favourite thing to talk about . I be go to do that very briefly at the start , and then there be several other thing I want to mention . however , before I go on to the meat of my remark , I want to mention a little lad call Louie Clarke , whom I meet relatively recently . he raise a considerable amount for a little girl who be particularly ill and suffer from a rare genetic condition . he cycle from one side of the city to the other , raise about £ 300 and contribute it to the fundraising effort . overall , this little community raise over £ 16 , 000 for that little girl . I just want to put that on the record before I talk about other matter relate to my city . I be incredibly proud of my home city of Peterborough — the city I grow up in — but I be not blind to the challenge associate with it . we do have challenge , and the good people of Peterborough expect I to come to this place and raise they . the issue I want to raise relate to St Michael ' s Gate , a street in Parnwell . Parnwell be a lovely community , with street such as Keys Park and Finchfield , which be occupy by more elderly resident . it also have family home on Martinsbridge and Whitacre and socially rent home on Henshaw and Whittington . it be a community that just kind of work . however , since August 2022 there have be increase concern in my city about St Michael ' s Gate . other local authority be utilise this area to house homeless household to meet their own statutory duty under the Housing Act 1996 . these be not Peterborough people ; they be , inevitably , be ship from London and house in my city on behalf of council that be basically disregard their duty to house their own homeless family . the legal constraint regard move household and place they outside the local area be govern by section 208 of the Housing Act , which acknowledge that accommodation should be provide in an authority ' s own district as far as reasonably practical . Peterborough City Council have therefore write to local authority know to place household in this way , ask they to be mindful of this legislation , because the situation be have a serious impact on the community I just talk about . the short - term solution be put upon this community in Peterborough be have a severe impact on local service . local area can not cope . there be a great local school , the Lime Academy , that specialise , believe it or not , in Traveller child . the number of child it be be force to accept from outside Peterborough be have a serious impact on the equilibrium of that school . it have a huge impact on Stars nursery , a huge impact on the GP surgery , which be close at the moment , and I will come on to that in a minute . the situation be have a huge impact on the whole community , and many local resident and business owner have raise concern about antisocial behaviour in the area . I thank the hon . gentleman for his offer of help . I would love to accept that offer and any help he can give in find a cure for glioblastoma . I appreciate the problem he must have in Peterborough , and I be sure many London council be place homeless family there . to put the situation in context , the reason for that happening be that there be currently 104 , 510 homeless family , in London include 131 , 370 homeless child . one in 50 Londoners be homeless , and one in 23 child in London be homeless — that be one in every class . the pressure for all London council be how to meet their legal responsibility and find home for people on a temporary basis , and his town be feel the impact of that . Peterborough be not just feel the impact ; it be feel a colossal impact on local service . it be also sometimes not fair for the vulnerable people be move from London — inevitably — to place such as Peterborough . how a particular council in London seek to deal and cope with this problem be also a postcode lottery . in certain area , the council recognise that these placement be have an impact on Peterborough and will work with the local authority in Peterborough to deal with it , but other simply wash their hand of it . something have get to give . I will do what I can to prevent Peterborough from be a place where local council can offload what I would say be some of their homeless and what they would consider to be their problem resident . it be not the right attitude , and we need to do something about it . I also want to talk quickly about park home resident . many of my constituent across Peterborough have raise concern over a law that allow park home landowner to claim 10 % commission on the resale of a home . there be many park home site across Peterborough , include Fengate mobile home park , Keys Park , Pioneer in Eye , and site in Werrington . that be why I feel compel to raise this issue today . that 10 % commission be wholly unfair on what be typically people from the elderly generation who own their own home . some of the impact may be short term , but unfortunately all can not make back what they have put in due to this law . I have see that the Park Home Owners Justice Campaign have create a petition that have gain ten of thousand of signature . I commend my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) on his support for this cause . we must make sure that we protect everyone from exploitation and call out unfairness wherever we see it . take 10 % off someone ' s home on top of any other taxis they may pay be just wrong . I just talk about Parnwell and the surgery there , and I put on record my congratulation to my constituent Rahul Ramechandra , who start a petition to save that gp surgery , or for it to reopen at the very least . far too many people be take taxi to Ailsworth , and the closure be have a profound impact on that local Parnwell community . I be sure that those on the Front Bench would agree that two year or 18 month be long enough to solve this building problem , and I be concerned that inertia have set in and we will see the situation go on and on . I want to raise a slightly different issue . on Sunday 10 September , just over a week ago , I attend the celebration of Gibraltar National Day just below the great Rock of Gibraltar with many other member from this House . the first national day be hold in 1992 to mark the 25th anniversary of the 1967 sovereignty referendum . it be now a wonderful annual celebration of the national pride of Gibraltarians . Gibraltar be one of our overseas territory and be cede to Great Britain under the treaty of Utrecht in 1713 . the Spanish maintain a claim to Gibraltar . follow talk between our two country , the people of Gibraltar themselves be ask to determine their future in a referendum in 1967 . some 99 % vote to remain british , compare with only 44 vote for spanish sovereignty . that be an incredibly special thing . armed only with ballot and pencil , the people of Gibraltar stand up to General Franco ' s Spain and assert their right to self - determination . I be honour to join the people of Gibraltar and be part of the celebration . I know that the proud people of Peterborough stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Gibraltar in thank they for their military service and celebrate their freedom and self - determination . before I finish , I want to mention two more issue . first , firework be be set off at all time of the night and at all time of the year . it have become a serious issue in Peterborough . these be not one - off incident but a recur nightmare , plague many of my constituent . they be not merely an annoyance ; they cause misery to many . the law regard firework be crystal clear . however , it be evident that a substantial number of individual choose to flout the regulation with impunity . many of the report I receive be about firework occur in the early hour of the morning — a blatant violation of the law . despite bring that to the police ' s attention many time , these incident still continue . in a recent survey that I do online , more than 1 , 000 constituent respond , and there be overwhelming support for a ban on firework other than on bonfire night and new year ' s day . the result be clear . we need to look at a change in the law to resolve this problem . finally , I want to talk about bipolar disorder . a friend of mine who work for Bipolar UK , the bipolar charity , ask I to support his initiative to bring more attention and awareness of bipolar disorder to Parliament . it be a pleasure to be part of the Bipolar UK parliamentary reception , host in November last year . along with 21 other commissioner , we help to launch the Bipolar Commission , with recommendation on diagnosis and care pathway . the commission ' s aim be to reduce the risk of suicide and to transform healthcare for people live with bipolar disorder while improve diagnosis time . Bipolar use to be know as manic depression , and it can take up to 10 year for a diagnosis . it be estimate that 1 . 3 million people — one in 50 people — in the UK have bipolar , which increase an individual ' s risk of suicide by up to 20 time . we have come on leap and bound as a country on mental health , but there be always room — lot of room — for improvement . mental health condition such as bipolar affect people ' s career , their quality of life and their relationship with family and friend . we need to ensure that diagnosis be fast and that appropriate support be available immediately so that people with the condition can live well and fulfil life . Bipolar be life - threateningly serious in some case ; our response should treat it that way . it have be an absolute pleasure to speak in the debate . again , I wish all hon . member , and certainly you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a very happy few day of recess . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to lead for the SNP in this debate , which be sometimes call " whinge - fest " . I can not possibly think why it ever get that nickname . this afternoon ' s debate and the issue raise be of a high quality . I thank all hon . member for their contribution . the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) say how important it be that visitor come to Parliament . I have the pleasure of welcome Glasgow South West constituent Donald and Tracy McColl , who be down last week as part of the reception run by Kidney Care UK on the importance of organ donation . I know that Donald and Tracy be passionate about that , and it be a pleasure for I to welcome they to Parliament . it be not as easy for Glasgow South West constituent as it be perhaps for Harrow East constituent , give that Glasgow South West be more than 500 mile away , but it be always a pleasure to see constituent here . like everyone , I pay tribute in particular to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) for her speech . as she talk , I reflect on my great aunt Winnie and my grandpa Charlie , who sadly both succumb to brain tumour . if there be anything I can do for the hon . Lady in this regard , I will be more than happy to do so . it be pleasing to hear the hon . member ' s tribute to her sister , who be a brilliant political mind in her own right , and the affection that the she have for she . she make a fantastic contribution to the debate , and I thank she very much on behalf of the whole House . the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) start her remark on the removal of ticket office . that be not an England - only issue , as we discover in Westminster Hall last week , because there be plan to close ticket office in both Glasgow and Edinburgh . I hope that the Government listen not just to the hon . member but to the many government back Benchers who contribute to last week ' s debate , who make their thought on that topic very clear . they also intend to continue to raise the issue , because people be concern about whether the consultation be actually a consultation at all . People have doubt about that when they hear that the worker involve have be give notice of potential redundancy , and that some train company be already advertise and investigate let out the space where the current ticket office be . I hope the Minister will give the House an assurance that there be genuine consultation on the proposal . I believe they should be scrap , and I think that belief be share by a number of member across the House . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to that . as someone with a trade union background , I think it be important to visit picket line . it be an opportunity for member of the House to hear what constituent have to say about such dispute . I hope the Minister will hear I out when I say , as chair of the PCS parliamentary group , and as my party ' s justice spokesperson , that I be concerned about the dispute in the court of England and Wales about security guard and outsource worker . they have be give a derisory pay offer , and I hope the Minister will be able to tell we what the Government be do about that . I note that even the newspaper be go on strike , include those who work for National World , which include the Scotsman and other paper . I offer they full solidarity and support . it be amazing to see that even the newspaper be go on strike . the reason they be be very simple : the continuation of the cost of living crisis . far too many people across these island be struggle with the cost of food . many of they be in work , many be receive state support , and many see that state support deduct every month in universal credit deduction — a crazy system — yet they also see supermarket post record profit . far too many people be struggle to make their mortgage payment , yet they see the bank post record profit . far too many people be struggle to pay their energy bill , yet they see the energy company post record profit . something have to give . the focus of the House when it return surely need to be on deal with that imbalance . while that imbalance exist , more people will suffer unnecessarily . as I say , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) have give I the pleasure of be the justice and immigration spokesperson , and I feel it be necessary to raise the issue of Mears , the Home Office provider of asylum seeker accommodation . I be concerned to hear about the change it be make to how it provide asylum accommodation and , more importantly , how about it evict people in that situation . two thing seem to be go on . first , when someone receive a negative decision , it evict they right away , by institute what be call a lock change eviction . there be a real problem with that , as I discover from one of my constituent . mear hand they a letter say , " you have a negative decision and therefore have to leave the property . " but that constituent have not receive a Home Office decision . that constituent be still wait on a Home Office decision , yet be give a letter from Mears ask they to leave the property . then there be how Mears treat people who have be give refugee status . People who have be give the status of sanctuary on these island be now receive court order to the sheriff court to tell they that mear will evict they . frankly , if we be welcome people to the United Kingdom and say to they that they have citizenship and status to remain in this country , why be company — Home Office provider — take individual to court to evict they and dump they on to the local authority , which then have to find they emergency housing ? that be not , I would suggest , an appropriate way to deal with anyone , let alone those who have be give refugee status . I want to wish all member a pleasant recess . I also want — I always deliberately take the opportunity to do so — to thank not just my constituency office staff , but the constituency office staff of every single member . while we be here have the great debate of the day , they be the real hero sort out constituent ' problem on a daily basis . I want to pay particular tribute to Scott , Roza , Raz , Linsey , Tony , Keith , Alistair , Dominique and Greg for all the work they do on behalf of the good constituency office in these island , which be of course find in the great constituency of Glasgow South West . I call the shadow Deputy Leader of the House . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for lead today ' s debate . he take we on a canter around north - west London , the middle east and south Asia . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , who make a good contribution . I thank all those who have participate in the debate . it have be an excellent opportunity to hear Members ' concern and their passion . it be right in this debate to reflect on colleague who have recently pass away . there will be an Adjournment debate later today lead by my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) , but I would also like to pay tribute to the late Ann Clwyd . Ann be a friend and a mainstay of our Labour family in south Wales . we use to sit together on the back Back Bench at the top of the seat below the Gangway behind I . we would often chat about Welsh politic and foreign policy . Ann be an expert on the middle east and a global human right figure . over many hour we would put the world to right . Ann be both gentle and make of stern stuff . I will miss she as a friend and as a comrade . I send my condolence to her beloved family . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) speak movingly about her late sister , Margaret McDonagh , and the treatment for brain tumour . I send she all good wish for her four - point plan . we all know that the McDonaghs have a famous fighting spirit . it be good to see cross - party support for this important endeavour . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) provide a powerful account of her campaign against badger cull , emphasise the importance of research , good datum and good farming method . good wish for the future on that . my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Tony Lloyd ) give a compelling case for a well understanding of the seabed and scientific concern over its exploitation . the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) reflect on bus service for local child and on his visit to Ukraine . he have excellent cross - party idea on reparation from Russia to Ukraine to help its rebuilding . my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) , who be fiercely passionate about this place , speak well on the challenge face by her constituent , include access to transport , crumble school and dangerous dog . we all give our good wish to Sami after he suffer that terrible attack . the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) talk about her local hospital campaigning . the diagnostic one - stop shop sound great . my hon . friend the Member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) relate a terrible saga of poor - quality housing in his constituency . he have be a great advocate for local people . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) reflect on the history of his constituency . it sound like a lovely place , with a great history of mineworking — which provide I with a neat segue into south Wales . I have ambivalent feeling about mineworke ; my grandfather , George Winter , be badly crush in a coal fall , but I be still proud of my coal and steel family background . colleague have make great play of the different place and people in their constituency , so I will take this opportunity briefly to do the same . on Friday I will hold a surgery at Blaina library , which be a great venue , not least because it be home to a wonderful local history museum . I pay tribute to the Sirhowy food share : in difficult time such as these , it serve its community in Tredegar with warm , open arm . its volunteer , alongside those in other food bank in Blaenau Gwent , be truly the good of we . may I also give a big thumb - up to the member of the Ebbw Valley brass band ? last weekend they become the first section national champion , which be a huge achievement . I be pleased to respond to this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , but as we ponder this parliamentary term , it be important that we reflect on the disastrous Budget of 2022 . what have we get to show for it ? soar mortgage , food inflation , a weak pound and a broken Britain , with ordinary work people pay the price for conservative ideology . this be a tired Tory Government , on the down and on the out . People have have enough . after 13 year of Conservatism , Britain need new idea . only Labour can offer the change that our country desperately need , with a Government who will end the cycle of stick - plaster politic and bring forward national renewal . we will , for example , make Britain a clean energy superpower to create job , cut bill and boost our energy security . we will prepare Britain for the future . as I draw my speech to a close , I want to congratulate Sir John Benger on his new role as Master of St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge . it be sweet to witness a group of Clerks clap out the outgoing Principal Clerk as he leave the Chamber for the last time early today ; it really be lovely . I also want to thank everyone who keep this House move and operate as effectively as possible , and I particularly want to thank Wayne Jenkins and our Doorkeepers . Wayne be so helpful : he even find some gaffer tape to wrap around my cross - country running shoe one year . as a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , I want to thank the parliamentary Select Committee staff who help we to scrutinise Government work . the National Audit Office team in particular do a great job , and in that context I congratulate the NAO ' s parliamentary lead , Adrian Jenner , and his wife — one of our Clerks , Sarah Petit — who recently welcome their new baby girl , Cora . I also want to thank my Blaenau Gwent team , Sara Baker , Mandy Platt , Gemma Badham , Dominic Jones and Callie Lewis . I thank they for always go above and beyond , and I be sure that many member feel the same about their team . finally , I wish everyone an exciting conference recess . in the week ahead , all our party will seek to gain the trust of the british people . that be an important democratic endeavour — and , of course , I look forward to see everyone return for the autumn term . I will be leave the Chamber shortly , so before I call the Minister , I want to give big thank to everyone who have pay tribute to Sir John Benger . I absolutely agree with everything that have be say . he have be a great servant of the House , and we will miss he , but we wish he all the very good in his new endeavour . I be delighted to be respond today on behalf of the Government . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be not usually the convention for whip to speak at this Dispatch Box . as you also know , I spend a lot of time as Deputy Chief Whip run in and out of this Chamber tell Ministers to be more pithy , to sit down and to get the vote out of the way and do , so I will endeavour — [ hon . member : " get on with it ! " ] I will endeavour to get on with it and to address the point raise by hon . member . I remember fondly my time on the Backbench Business Committee with my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and our great friend , David Amess , who would have be thrill that we be have pre - recess Adjournment debate on the cusp of half - term , as we do now , as well as at the end of a full term . I know he would have be very happy about that . I recall one occasion , when I be on the Committee , when Sir David go absolutely ballistic when the Government have the temerity to programme Government business on the last day before a recess and deny the House this debate . I will never forget his rage at that . this have be a wide - range debate , and I will respond to as many colleague as possible . first , I want to respond to the shadow Deputy Leader of the House , the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) . I welcome he to his position and I welcome the tribute he pay to Ann Clwyd , who be a fantastic Member of this place . I will never forget the time she ask a question about the treatment that her husband be receive in hospital in Wales all those year ago . it be very moving . the hon . Gentleman raise many matter , but I do not recognise his characterisation of the Government . we have put 37 Government Bills through the House during this session , and 23 member have have their private Member ' s Bill successfully go through the House . among the Government Bills , we have have the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Bill , which have scrap unwanted regulation from our time in the EU ; the Victims and Prisoners Bill , in which we be strengthen the right of victim of crime ; the Online Safety Bill , in which we be protect child and vulnerable people from online harm ; the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill , in which we have put legislation in place to stop labour ' s union paymaster hold public service to ransom ; the Public Order Bill , in which we have stop organisation such as just stop oil attach themselves to our road and prevent hard - work people from get to work ; and the Illegal Migration Bill , in which we have work hard to reduce illegal immigration , which be down nearly 20 % in the last year . we be work hard to do that while Labour look intent on make illegal immigration legal and on take we back into the EU by the back door . the hon . Gentleman talk about what a Labour Government could deliver , but we just need to look to Wales , where there be mandatory blanket 20 mph speed limit and long waiting list in the NHS than we have in England ; to London , where the hate ULEZ have be impose on hard - work people ; and to Birmingham , where the Labour council be bankrupt the city . this just show that the Labour party always run out of other people ' s money when it be in office . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East make a fantastic speech and lay out the case for his petition on why hard - work people should not be hold to ransom by the megalomania of the Mayor of London and his ULEZ charge . my hon . friend mention the challenge of house in multiple occupation in his constituency , and I be sure that many of we have feel some of those challenge . he talk about the difference that his conservative council be make in take on a lot of additional social housing as well as make significant progress on road resurfacing . he also mention the India trade deal , and I be really pleased that the Government be make progress on that . it be extremely important , now that we have leave the European Union , that we get trade deal with the fast - grow economy in the world , and India be certainly one of they . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) make a very moving speech about her sister , Margaret , who I know be regard very fondly in this House as well as in the other place . the hon . Lady make some extremely move comment about her sister ' s last few month . one of my good friend sadly die this year from a brain tumour , and I think the sentiment of the House be that more need to be do on this subject . there be a long way to go on the treatment and diagnosis of brain tumour . I know that the hon . Lady have a debate on this subject , and it be respond to by the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) . I will make sure he know about today ' s debate and understand the sentiment of many member in the Chamber today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) on her massive effort to climb Mount Kilimanjaro and raise over £ 150 , 000 for charity . she mention the badger cull , which be a very emotive subject . this be not only a massive issue for cattle and farmer , as nobody want to see a badger die a miserable death from bovine TB . we all hope that the significant work that be take place bring about a vaccine as quickly as possible . I also welcome the comment of the hon . member for Rochdale ( Tony Lloyd ) . protect the seabed be extremely important , and he will know that we be bring in a number of protect marine zone around the UK . the matter require further debate and discussion , and it need to be take extremely seriously . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) mention antisocial behaviour , which many of we suffer in our constituency . we now have a record number of police officer on our street , and the Home Secretary have be very clear that even what have hitherto be consider quite low - level crime should be investigate and deal with by our police . I certainly hope that be the case in my hon . friend ' s constituency . when the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) be shadow Leader of the House , we always enjoy her duel with the then Leader of the House . she mention Bescot Stadium station , of which I have some experience , have visit Bescot stadium on a number of occasion to watch the mighty Coventry City . unfortunately , though , I have only go away happy on one of those three occasion , which be not good news . she raise a very important point about accessibility at the station , and I will make sure it be feed back to the Minister . she mention several other issue on which she be look for a response from Ministers , and I will make sure those matter be feed back . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) champion her area , and it be great news that she be get the diagnostic centre at Congleton War Memorial Hospital . this be one of a series of diagnostic centre open across the country , and I be glad to report that another of those centre be at the George Eliot Hospital in my Nuneaton constituency . the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) mention an extremely worrying housing case in his constituency and , through the work he be do here , I very much hope that both the housing association and the NHBC will take responsibility and seek to remedy those issue as soon as practicable . if that do not happen , I hope that resident and tenant have a sufficient response to their complaint so that they can take their case to the housing ombudsman , which be extremely important . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) mention the 850th anniversary of Newcastle - under - Lyme , and he pay tribute to Jim Worgan , the historian . local historian often do a massive amount of unpaid work , and they be so valuable to our local area . I pay tribute to the local historian Peter Lee , who have write many book relate to my constituency and its industrial and mining heritage , and to Mark Palmer , who run a Facebook group call " Nuneaton Memories , " which put out a massive amount of nostalgia about Nuneaton — that be fabulous to see . it be also good to see that after 850 year woman be allow to be burgess — that be long overdue , but it be well late than never and it be good that my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) identify that . his speech be a fantastic advertisement for the culture and heritage , particularly the mining heritage , of his area . it be great to hear that it be not just dwell on the past but instead be live in the future and do a massive amount to bring forward the late industry and create new job . he have be a great champion on the issue of Walleys quarry , it be good to see that progress have be make , but clearly there be more to do and I hope that he succeed in his mission . it be great to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) about Dover and , particularly , Deal . I be glad that she be make progress on the phlebotomy service in Deal and the surround village . clearly , the integrate care board there be start to listen , but I understand why she would want quick progress , as will her constituent . the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Scott Benton ) make an illuminate speech , with a list of thing that the Government be provide for Blackpool that be large than the Blackpool tower itself . it look as though a massive amount of support and regeneration be be provide in Blackpool . it be extremely welcome that one of our seaside town be get that sort of support , after many year when it have not have the support , rejuvenation and regeneration it need . we hear a lovely , impassione speech from my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) , who identify the importance of civic pride in our area . I talk about that in term of my area time after time . it be fantastic to see that he have achieve get bury football club , the Shakers , back to Gigg Lane . that be a massive achievement , because civic pride come across more than anything through sport . I very much hope for he and the good people of Bury — and a gentleman I know in my constituency who use to have a bury season ticket and to travel there up the m6 every week — that Bury can get back into the Football League as quickly as possible . I know how difficult a journey that be likely to be . my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) again show what a champion he be for his area . I be sorry to hear about his father pass away from a brain tumour . I spend some time in Peterborough as there be a by - election in my hon . friend ' s constituency , so I know it a little and I hear what he say about the importance of local authority stand by their duty to house their local resident in their local area . there be a bit of debate on this , but I know how difficult it be in many area for social housing to be provide . on London , I just point out that , as I understand it , in his first two term the current Mayor , Sadiq Khan , provide 7 , 500 affordable home per year , whereas his predecessor , Boris Johnson , provide 12 , 000 per year in his time . so there be a lot more to do and a lot more that can be do to give people housing , particularly in our capital . I hear what the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) say about Kidney Care UK and organ donation , which be an extremely important subject for many people . he mention his family member who have sadly pass away from brain tumour . as I say , I can sense a grow movement across the House on that issue , which the relevant Minister will have hear as a result of today ' s debate . on rail ticket office , the relevant Minister will respond to that consultation in due course . the hon . Gentleman also mention the cost of living , which have be an extremely important issue and still be for many of our constituent . I point out that the Government have provide a record package in our history of £ 94 billion , help every household in some way but particularly the most vulnerable , give they support with their heating bill and so on . it just show the strength of the UK as a bloc in regard to be able to support all part of the UK in a well way than would be the case if the hon . Gentleman get his wish to break up our successful United Kingdom . another point the hon . Gentleman make be about mortgage . clearly , there be challenging time for many mortgage holder , but I recommend that anyone face those challenge speak to their mortgage lender , because 90 % of mortgage lender have sign up to the mortgage charter . I be aware of a case where someone who be hitherto a mortgage prisoner , unable to get a well deal from their lender , have secure a fix - rate deal at a significantly low cost than their previous rate . if people be have challenge , I implore they to speak to their mortgage lender . as we break for the conference recess , I pay tribute to the Clerk of the House , John Benger , for his long and distinguished service . for many of we , the recess will include not just the conference , but a lot of constituency work and knock on door for two by - election , but I hope we will all have a happy and safe recess . I look forward to see the right hon . gentleman on the doorstep in Tamworth . I have be reliably informed that Mr Phil Howse be our Principal Doorkeeper , so may I correct the record ? Wayne Jenkins be the Deputy Principal Doorkeeper and together they do a great job . I thank the hon . member . he be absolutely right that our Doorkeepers do a great job . they be a font of all knowledge to many member of the House . quite often , the Doorkeepers know when vote be come before a lot of member , so member rely on they rather than their whip , which they should not necessarily do , for their experience and knowledge . I thank our Doorkeepers , our Clerks , all of the staff on the parliamentary estate , our staff in our constituency and in our parliamentary office . those staff do a massive amount at the coalface to support our constituent ; without they , we would not be able to do our job and support our constituent as member of Parliament . Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you a good conference recess and I hope that everybody have a happy and safe conference recess . with the leave of the House , I thank all 13 back - Bench Members who speak in the debate , include one who intervene , and the three Front - Bench Members who contribute . I remind my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) that when we persuade the late Sir David Amess to join the Backbench Business Committee , he do so on one proviso — to safeguard the end - of - term , pre - recess Adjournment debate — only to find that the Government have renege on the deal . I particularly thank the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) for her speech . one of my opponent in the 1992 general election very sadly die of a brain tumour some six month after the election . he be a very young man and it happen suddenly . it be a tragedy for all concern , especially his family . I extend my sympathy to the hon . Lady . the benefit of these debate have be show by the contribution — local , national and international — make by member from across the Back Benches . I will take back to the Backbench Business Committee the desire for the whole House to continue these debate at all cost . as my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) , say , I should correct the record . the £ 300 , 000 gas - guzzle Range Rover Sentinel , in which the Mayor of London drive around London , be exempt , because it be register in 2020 . that be why it be exempt ; there be no special exemption . may I say to the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) that I envy he for have such an elastic budget that he can employ so many people who be do such brilliant work in his constituency office . let I thank and wish a good conference recess to all the staff — everyone who keep this House go , all our constituency staff , everyone who work for Government Ministers and all the civil servant . I hope that our conference be successful — I be not sure about the other conference . we will be enjoy the opportunity to get together with friend whom we have not see for a while and debate issue of political importance . but most of we , I be sure , will be work hard in our constituency on behalf of our constituent , which be , after all , what we do well . we look forward to come back in the autumn for another round of opportunity for Government legislation , the King ' s Speech and go into the last session before the general election . indeed , I look forward to join those debate and make the full contribution I can from the Back Benches , as I have be do for the past 13 year . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . petition - face to Face Banking Services I rise to present this petition on behalf of my constituent in Hornsey and Wood Green who be furious at yet another bank branch closure — this time the Halifax in Muswell Hill , come just a couple of month after the Halifax closure in Crouch end . I have be contact by an 80 - year - old resident who tell I that they have be a victim of fraud and be anxious about online banking . similarly , a disabled resident tell I that they rely on counter staff , and they would struggle to get to another branch , as it be an hour round trip on public transport . all express concern that this be part of an endless stream of bank closure . almost half of all bank that be open in 2015 have close across the country . that be a matter of extreme regret and an urgent issue that the Government should be address . we can see that our high street be die . the petition state : the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to protect essential in - person banking service . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Hornsey and Wood Green , declare that the petitioner be extremely disappointed at the announcement of the closure of Halifax ' s Muswell Hill branch in November 2023 , far note that bank branch be the heart of community , and be rely upon by local community , especially old and disabled people , those who need access to cash and those without internet banking ; further note that they be also vital for local business . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to protect essential in - person banking service . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002857 ] petition - Travel Costs Support for Young Cancer Patients get child , teenager and young adult with cancer to their treatment cost . family spend , on average , £ 250 just get their child to treatment let alone their lose earning . young people with cancer deserve proper government support . nearly 12 , 000 people have now sign this petition , include many of my constituent in East Dunbartonshire . Mr Deputy Speaker , I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on child , teenager and young adult with cancer , and as a young cancer survivor myself . the petition state : the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure all young cancer patient be provide with a Young Cancer Patient Travel Fund , which be easily and universally accessible from the point of diagnosis and throughout the duration of their cancer treatment . and the petitioner remain , etc . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that more need to be do to support young cancer patient and their family with the cost of travel to receive treatment ; that it be unacceptable that they be go into debt , struggle to pay their bill , and missing or delay treatment as a result ; and that the current support available be prove inadequate in cover these travel cost . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure all young cancer patient be provide with a Young Cancer Patient Travel Fund , which be easily and universally accessible from the point of diagnosis and throughout the duration of their cancer treatment . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002852 ] Petition - Phlebotomy Services I rise to present a petition submit by my fantastic Deal health campaigner Anne Matthews , Marsha Horne , Councillor Trevor Bond and Councillor Tony Grist , whose petition have attract some 3 , 000 signature of people concerned about the closure of phlebotomy service at Deal hospital . the petitioner state that , " the Kent and Medway Integrated Care Board , at long last , finally recognise that old , poor , clinically dependent people and child in Deal and Walmer have be inadequately provide for follow the closure of blood testing service and the hospital in October 2021 " , and note that it be " yet to reinstate the blood testing service at Deal Hospital . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to ensure that Kent and Medway Integrated Care Board reopen blood testing service at Deal Hospital immediately . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of Deal and Walmer , declare that the Kent and Medway Integrated Care Board , at long last , finally recognise that old , poor , clinically dependent people and child in Deal and Walmer have be inadequately provide for follow the closure of blood testing service and the hospital in October 2021 ; note that resident in Deal and Walmer should have local access to these essential blood testing service ; further note that the Kent and Medway Integrated Care Board be yet to reinstate the blood testing service at Deal Hospital . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to ensure that Kent and Medway Integrated Care Board reopen blood testing service at Deal Hospital immediately . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002859 ] Ann Clwyd Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) thank you for grant this debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . first of all , I thank Ann ' s family and friend , some of whom have join we in the Gallery , for their support as we in the Chamber pay tribute to Ann Clwyd . Croeso I chi — welcome to you . I do not know Ann as well as many of those present this evening , have meet she on only a handful of occasion . however , since I be elect I have have many positive conversation with local people and activist who know she . other will have have much more direct experience of work alongside Ann , and I thank they for come to pay their tribute . when I look back at Ann Clwyd ' s life and career , I so much respect her work , and I think so much of it resonate with what we face today . Ann be a strong , independently minded woman , an advocate for woman ' s right , international human right , the Welsh language , good - quality public service and so much more . she be the first woman to be elect as an MP for the south Wales valley , so I take pride in have have the opportunity to follow in her footstep in Cynon Valley . have sit for many year next to Ann on this very spot on the Back Benches , and on the other side of the House as well , I want to echo my hon . friend ' s remark about Ann ' s incredible passion , pride and sense of justice , but I also want to mention her sense of mischief and the twinkle in her eye . she bring both passion and humour to this Chamber . she be sadly miss , and we be all greatly diminish by the lack of her presence in this House . in Cardiff West , where in her latter year she be a very active constituent and correspondent with I as her local MP , I certainly miss her letter , even though they create a great deal of work for I here in this place . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . Ann understand the need to keep job in local community . tyrone o ' Sullivan , leader of the Tower colliery buy - out , who sadly also pass away early this year , speak at an event for Ann that be organise in March last year by our local labour woman ' s branch in Cynon Valley . Tyrone acknowledge and celebrate Ann ' s contribution to the fight for Tower colliery , and he remind I , only week before his death , of the importance of the working - class struggle for today . they show the way to build local economy , create local wealth for local people , not encourage local people to leave in order to get on in life . I share that vision and I try to carry on in the same vein with my work on the local economy in Cynon Valley . Ann fight battle on behalf of miner . when she become MP , our constituency be in the throe of fighting to keep the mining industry alive . next year , we will remember 40 year since the 1984 miner ' strike — the year when Ann become MP for Cynon Valley . I be , as a child , on the demonstration through the town of Aberdare with Ann . in her maiden speech in Parliament , Ann say that the miner ' strike be " a symbolic fight , a fight against the two Britains — the have and the have not . it be a protest on behalf of a lost generation of young man and woman who have never be able to find a job in the valley of South Wales . " that fight continue . public service worker , rail worker and health worker today be fight against two Britains — the have and the have not . Ann also fight tirelessly for compensation for miner suffer health problem as a result of their work . as she say in the same speech : " it be a heartbreaking experience — I wish that Conservative Members could share it — to see a miner gasp for breath even while use an oxygen mask . yet , because he have not be diagnose as suffer from pneumoconiosis , he do not get a penny in compensation . that be more than wrong , it be cruel and unjust . " — [ Official Report , 7 June 1984 ; Vol . 61 , c . 476 - 77 . ] I , like other member in the Chamber , be currently involve in the ongoing battle for miner ' pension right and compensation , so again the fight go on ; the thread of history continue . I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate . I know that I have not be in the House as long as other member who will speak , but I just want to add a very quick contribution if she will allow I . when I come here in 2010 , Ann Clwyd would sit just about there , and I sit here . she be always a very strong and determined lady — I find she a lady of strong will . although she be always charming and have a lovely smile , I always figure that it would not be a good thing to get on the wrong side of she . I have always be surround by strong lady so I know how to adapt to that . here be a story . Ann be sit here one night during an Adjournment debate , with just the Minister , the previous Mr Speaker and — as usual for the Adjournment , as everyone know — myself in the Chamber . her phone go off and be ring quite loudly . I look up at she and she never flinch . the phone keep ring . I look at Mr Speaker , and he mumble something to I like , " get the handbag ! " so I take the handbag , with the ring phone , out the back and leave it there . I could still hear it ring away , but I could not get it turn off — that be part of the problem . I have one other quick wee story . Ann love cat with a passion , as do my wife , so when Ann bring in her bag with cat on they , I say , " you and my wife would get on because she love cat as well . " Ann leave an impression on I , an MP since 2010 , and I think it only right that the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) have secure this debate . it be lovely to see Ann ' s family — I have never meet any of you before tonight . I say well do to the hon . Lady . we have fond , fond memory of a special lady . I thank my hon . friend . Ann also advocate strongly against cut to benefit , recognise the need to fight against poverty and any policy that would far impoverish people . her stand on any attempt to cut benefit be an ongoing battle that many of we continue to fight as the cost of living crisis hit the poor the hard . be my hon . friend aware of Ann ' s important work in stand up for victim of abuse ? Ann be a constant voice for the survivor of the north - west Wales care home abuse scandal , some of whom be her constituent . when other ignore those voice , Ann speak out , not just once but many time , at a time when victim be often disbelieve , sometimes with tragic consequence . do my hon . friend agree that that speak to Ann ' s courage , fearlessness and commitment to human right ? I thank my hon . friend . Ann be indeed fearless . this afternoon , we have the privilege of spend some time with her family , and we talk about her involvement with and advocacy on behalf of those suffering abuse , for whom she fight tirelessly . ann ' s opposition back in 1997 to the abolition of lone - parent benefit be something she speak passionately about . she say at the time : " there be great concern in the Parliamentary Labour Party . even people who vote with the government go into the lobby feel very distressed . they don ' t want to see it happen again . " again , Ann ' s opposition to cut to benefit and her advocacy on behalf of the disadvantaged resonate strongly with we today , in particular the stand that many of we be take in the parliamentary Labour party against the two - child benefit cap . I believe that Ann , too , would have support this week ' s right to food campaign , which be be lead by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , and the fightback against the cost of living crisis . it would be remiss of I not to say that Ann and I would not have agree on everything . I believe she be wrong about the Iraq war . I will always also respect her stand in support of the right of oppress people throughout the world . I know Ann for 40 year , and above all else , she be an internationalist ; she care about people and human right . I remember that on one occasion she be dismiss from the Front Bench because she go to Kurdistan to show solidarity with the people there , without permission from the Whips . she be a passionate believer in the right of people throughout the world . she should be remember also for her commitment to the Inter - Parliamentary Union , of which she chair the british group . her support for human right throughout the world , whether in Iraq , Kurdistan or anywhere else , be wonderful . my hon . friend ' s intervention be very timely , because I be just come on to the point that Ann be renowned for her internationalism , from Cambodia to South Africa , to East Timor and Turkey , and of course , her commitment to support the kurdish people . she be for over 20 year chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group which continue to raise awareness of serious human right violation throughout the world . she be also a member of numerous parliamentary Committees , include those on International Development and Foreign Affairs , and she head the IPU Committee on the Human Rights of Parliamentarians throughout the world . as my hon . Friend say , Ann be sack not once but twice from the shadow Cabinet . may I thank my hon . friend for secure this Adjournment debate and express my condolence to Ann ' s family and her many friend ? I think that , with that reference to the shadow Cabinet , I should come in . I know that Ann be very keen to say that she be not sack for incompetence . I could always rely on Ann for support and wisdom . I even try to repay it — I play an important role in Ann ' s successful campaign for Westminster Cat of the Year , as her campaign manager for the ginger tomcat Alfie . do my hon . friend agree that , with her commitment to social justice and to the most vulnerable both at home and abroad , there will not be another MP like Ann again , but that do not mean we should not all try to be like she ? I could not agree more with my right hon . friend ' s sentiment . Ann be oppose to the sale of arm to oppressive regime . these fight , again , sadly continue , and we continue to live in a dangerous world . my hon . friend be give a fantastic tribute to Ann , who so many member on both side of the House , as well as her constituent , love so much . Ann be labour through and through , very principled and a lovely person . do my hon . friend agree that she also represent the good in our party ' s tradition , this Parliament ' s tradition and our democracy ' s tradition of independent - minded public service and be a true conviction politician ? as my hon . Friend say , not everyone would have agree with everything that Ann say , but that be fine — that be what our democracy be all about . we can all learn from Ann when we think about how we go about our politic , and I thank my hon . friend for pay such a well - deserve tribute to somebody we love so much . I thank my hon . friend for his comment . again , I could not agree more . Ann be 100 % right in the stand that she make on those humanitarian issue and so many other , such as end female genital mutilation , and she be not afraid to take unpopular position on issue she feel very strongly about . Nicole Piche , who be co - ordinator and legal adviser to the all - party parliamentary human right group when Ann chair it , say : " although she be firmly rooted in and a staunch advocate for the Labour Party , have hold a number of Shadow portfolio when Labour be in opposition , she do not hold back when she disagree with its policy , and be happy to work cross - party to advance the many cause she espouse . " as we all know , Ann be not afraid to speak her mind without fear or favour . agree with she or not , whether on the Iraq war or her stance on Brexit , we all have to admire her forthrightness and her ability to keep to her belief . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I apologise : I be speak at a rally in a few minute ' time , which Ann would have agree with , so I will have to leave . the one thing about Ann be that she never give up , and if you ever cross she , she never give up either . I be on a Select Committee last year that be interview someone — I will not go into the detail of it , but it be someone she have come across in the 1980 with regard to Vietnam and Laos . she notice that we be interview this individual , so she send I a 20 - page briefing on they and all the subsequent offence , crime and so on that they have perpetrate . she be not do it out of spite or anything like that ; she be do it as part of her campaign to expose the injustice that go on at that time and all those who be implicate in they . in some instance that annoy people , and sometimes her persistence rub people up the wrong way , but for I , it make I love she even more . I thank my right hon . friend — " persistence " describe Ann in many respect . I have also have the honour of speak to her long - stand colleague in Parliament , Lord Campbell - Savours , who refer to Ann as " Clwyd " . he say that " Clwyd be the most courageous woman I have ever meet in my life . she be fiercely independent , know her own mind and refuse to be label . Clwyd be what I call a real radical . " he repeat the term " radical " — to he , she be the most radical person he have ever meet . they be long - stand friend . I have also speak to lot of constituent . a local story about Ann ' s forthright approach relate to her canvass in an election . she be use a loudspeaker , which she do very often throughout the Cynon Valley . a local resident come out and start to harangue she , so in very colourful language — not unlike that use recently by the Secretary of State for Education , which I be unable to use here — Ann tell he to go away . unfortunately , she forget that the loudspeaker be still on , so everybody get to hear Ann ' s colourful language . her language could be colourful at time , as I be sure her family would agree . another story that I be tell be of Ann compare a Tory MP ' s fur collar to a dead cat around her neck when she criticise Ann for her position on late abortion . Ann do a lot of work on abortion right , which again be an issue that be still in the political melting pot , as woman be still have to fight to decriminalise abortion . Ann have a very deep and personal interest and involvement in health matter over many year , particularly in a personal capacity in her latter year . at one time , she sit as a member of the South Glamorgan health board alongside a Cynon Valley GP , the late Dr Alistair Wilson , who always feel that Ann want service to be the good possible for people . she fully support the national health service , but with a critical eye — and , oh , do she have a critical eye . Ann do move on the international stage , but that do not prevent she from pay attention to local issue . like many other people , one young local person — Richard Jones , who be now a disability right local champion — ask for help . he recall that when he ask she for help with a school project as a schoolboy , she send he so much information that he get top mark for it . later , he be the constituency Labour party chair when she make her retirement speech at the constituency party , so he have know she throughout his life . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate and on her excellent speech . do she agree that , in addition to her many political achievement , Ann be a true friend to we all ? as my hon . friend have describe , Ann take a genuine interest in all our concern . she command our trust and she do that challenging task of show real leadership as chair of the parliamentary Labour party — quite a task to fulfil . it be that genuine interest in people and the trust that we be able to put in she that enable she to do that . I do agree with my hon . friend , and I hope she agree with I . I completely agree . Ann do take an interest in people and be very patient when listen to their concern . Ann have first - class support from staff in her constituency and in Parliament , and I recognise the importance of that as a Member of Parliament . I have have a conversation with the family today , and I be sure nobody will mind if I make specific reference to one person in particular : her friend , confidant and mainstay in Cynon Valley , Jean Fitzgerald , who be also a great support to myself . sadly , Jean die shortly after Ann retire , but the closeness between they be so evident , particularly when Ann pay tribute to Jean at her funeral . I thank my hon . friend for give way again . I do not know Ann at all , but my parliamentary assistant work for she and have relay very fond memory of she . one in particular be about Ann ' s kindness to her late friend and colleague , John Stevenson . member will know that John be a political correspondent for BBC Wales , but for several year before that he have be homeless and have struggle with alcohol addiction . Ann have know John when they be young journalist in Wales , and she seek he out when she become an MP . she know he have fall on hard time , so she give he a job work for she . it be his second chance and a chance to rebuild his life , and it be something he never forget . I be sure the whole House will agree when I say that that just show the depth of Ann ' s compassion towards people , the breadth of her humanity and kindness , and the essence of her remarkable character . I thank my hon . friend for that , and I think that kindness , compassion and humanity be word that really do sum up Ann in so many way . I be almost at my conclusion , but I need to say that the fight do continue . just as Ann fight so fearlessly for what she believe in , we in this place must continue those fight . I know that she would want we to do that so that the people we represent can benefit from a just and more equal society with international peace and justice . before I conclude , I want to say that many other member wish to contribute today , include my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) , who work with Ann on social work to a large extent , my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who unfortunately can not be here this evening , and also the right hon . member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) , from the Government Benches . many , many more mp have pay tribute to Ann and would have be here if they could . felly , Ann , diolch I chi be helpu I gadw ein hiaith yn fyw , a diolch be frwydro dros hawliau dynol , yn erbyn anghyfiawnder , dros y tlawd , I gael gwasanaethau da I bobl , a dros hawliau menywod . a diolch be fod yn fenyw oedd yn barod I sefyll I fyny a siarad ei meddwl — heb os nac oni bai , menyw gadarn gydag egwyddorion cryf . I orffen , gair I ' r teulu a ffrindiau ago : mae mor bwysig ein bod ni ' n cofio Ann , yn siarad amdani ac yn dathlu ei bywyd fel hyn . Diolch I chi be gytuno I ni , fel Aelodau Seneddol , I gael y cyfle yma heddiw . Pob cydymdeimlad gyda chi , ac atgofion da . I have be tell that I have to repeat that in English , but then I be finish . Ann , thank you for help to keep our language alive . thank you for fight for human right and the poor , fight against injustice , fight to get good service for people and fight for woman ' s right . thank you for be a woman who be ready to stand up and speak her mind . without a doubt , you be a strong woman with strong principle . to finish , a word to Ann ' s family and close friend : it be so important that we remember Ann , talk about she and celebrate her life in this way . we all wish to offer thank for we as member of Parliament have be allow this opportunity today . my condolence , and our condolence , to you , and fond memory . it be a great pleasure to be able to speak about my friend Ann Clwyd , whom I know extremely well . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) for the wonderful way she have put her memory on the record today . I first know Ann when she be elect to Parliament along with I in the early ' 80 . we share an office in the Cloisters downstairs , along with about 25 other mp . it be an extremely noisy place , because Ann have a great deal to say . Lord Campbell - Savours often come along to have an argument with Ann about something , or to tell she what to do , and she tell he what to do and so it go on . Tony Benn be next door , and there be a number of other there , so it be not a quiet place . the office be also home to my dog call Mango , who come in as well . Ann be deeply concerned about Mango ' s health and often look after Mango for I . one day there be a leak in the roof . it be literally a leak — there be a lot of talk about Government leak , but this be a real leak with water come in from the roof . the rest of we just moaned and groan and phone up service and say , " please fix this leak , " but Ann ? no , no , no . I open the Evening Standard at lunchtime that day . there be a picture of Ann Clwyd with an umbrella over her head , raincoat , wellington boot — the whole bit — explain how Parliament have so deteriorate that she be force to come in with protective gear to get through the day . she have this wonderful panache for publicise event and issue , but that hide a deep steel in what she do . she represent Cynon Valley , where Tower colliery be . I be at the next desk to she . the miner ' strike come , and they want support , so she ask I to get a load of people from my constituency to go to Cynon Valley . we hire a coach and a van , we take food and we go in large number . Ann meet we there . we build up a great relationship with Tyrone o ' Sullivan , and it be an honour to be invite to speak at his funeral recently with my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley . Ann be somebody who stand up for what she believe in . she and I be two of a very small group of MPs who oppose arm sale to Iraq and speak up for the kurdish people during the chemical attack on Halabja . we do a lot of activity around the place and work closely together with all the kurdish group . Ann be rightly see as a great friend of the kurdish community . while she and I do not agree on the Iraq war , we be both on the record as oppose arm sale to Iraq . there be not many of we who be oppose to arm sale to Iraq before the war begin . I see Ann as a friend and colleague , and I work closely with she as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group . during the Yeltsin period , we go on a delegation to Russia to try to defend the Chechen people , with the horror they be go through . Ann be extremely assertive on behalf of the human right group on that . I distinctly remember sit in front of somebody who be presumably very senior in something because he have an unbelievable number of phone set out all round his desk , and Ann and I be speculate about which phone lead to which person . it be her wit and humour that help to get thing through . I want to put on the record my thank to she for so much of what she do . as chair of the human right group , Ann also lead we in a delegation to East Timor in 2000 to witness its referendum . it be difficult , because the indonesian army be supposedly protect the integrity of the referendum , which be a strange thing to do . Ann , I and the late Alice Mahon be on a delegation , and we visit all the polling station on behalf of the UN and meet many people there . for some reason that I never really understand , Ann bring an amazing amount of luggage , which fill up the very small plane we go in to get there . the rest of we all become porter for Ann Clwyd ' s luggage — there be a lot of it , and it be very heavy . when we ask she to explain this , she say , " I don ' t think it ' s any of your business how many case I choose to bring , but it ' s very much your business that you ' ve get to carry they . " so I say , " thank , Ann — that ' s great . " but we play our part in ensure that the people of East Timor , who have be through hell for decade , actually see their independence and some hope for the future . I want to say a huge thank you to Ann for the friendship , for the humour , and for the steel and determination on the human right cause and all the other cause that colleague have mention . she be always a good friend to I . we often do not totally agree on everything , but we totally agree to respect each other in our disagreement , so we always get along very well indeed . that be a good example of how politic can work . I say to all her family : my condolence , and thank you for the life of Ann . it be a real pleasure to follow the many tribute to Ann , and particularly those from my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) , who succeed she in her seat . it be also a real pleasure to have Ann ' s family with we in the Gallery . I want to give a few personal thought about Ann . I be lucky enough to know she for decade . I first meet she when I be 15 year old as an intern in the Welsh Labour party headquarters , and I remember be bowl over by she speak at an event with great power , great passion and that strong sense of radicalism exemplify in so many of the comment we have hear . as often happen in politic , we can meet people when we be young and think , " wow — what an incredible figure , " but do they turn out to be that way when year later we meet they in Parliament or have the privilege of work alongside they in Parliament , as I do with Ann ? when I be able to join Ann in this place , she live up to every aspect of what I have see in she when I be a young teenager . I be Ann ' s Whip for a while . she have obviously have a tumultuous relationship with whip , and indeed with party leadership over many year , but all I can say be that she be always utterly courteous and pleasant , even when there be difficult issue to be discuss . it be a real pleasure to work with she . we have hear about so many different campaign that Ann be involve in , include Tower , the NHS , Iraq and miner ' compensation , and she really do apply that campaigning zeal , expertise , tenacity , complete dedication and commitment to everything she turn her hand to . I have the particular pleasure of work with she on the Committees on Arms Export Controls . arm export be obviously a significant issue that she reflect on in many different capacity in her career . I remember work with she on the Committees — I will not go into too many detail , because we be not suppose to reveal certain proceeding — and deal with a lot of shenanigan , with thing make it out into the medium and so on . ann ' s expertise and length of time in this place , have see so much of it in the past , be a great instructor to I on how to handle such situation . even amid all that , she never lose track of her clear purpose , which be to stand up for civilian affect by conflict , for child , for human right , and for basic standard and decency , even in war and conflict . Ann speak passionately about that issue on the very last day that she speak in this place in the valedictory debate , which I will quote in a moment . she teach I an incredible amount about stick to principle , drive forward and fight through difficult political situation . Ann serve as an MEP before come into this place . I spend a lot of time with she here during the Brexit debate , which as we all know be tumultuous , tiring and try at time . Ann never lose sense of her principle and what she stand for . my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) talk about how Ann stick to her principle and be very tough , but she be truly an internationalist . she be never afraid to tell it as it be in this place when she think other be get it right rather than we . in that valedictory debate , she say : " there be other reason why I be pleased that I go there first " — refer to the European Parliament . " I have to say that it be a cultural shock for I to come here , because I have not realise how delusional people here be . I will tell you why . it be because we give the impression that we do everything well than everybody else , when in fact there be many example of other country do thing well than we do , and I be pleased to have have the opportunity of experience that . " — [ Official Report , 5 November 2019 ; Vol . 667 , c . 699 . ] Ann be deeply and passionately Welsh and British . she be proud of our country and what we do in the world when we be at our good , but she be also not afraid to tell it as it be and to question and criticise , whether on domestic or international issue or on so many of the other cause that she go for . how she speak in that last debate really sum she up . Ann be a tireless advocate for , and regularly speak to I about , human right in a whole series of country , from T ü rkiye to East Timor , as the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) mention . she fight for child in the terrible conflict in Syria in recent decade . she proudly speak up alongside other dear depart colleague such as Jo Cox and other in those crucial debate about the situation for child in Syria . despite all that international work , she never lose sight at all of the centrality of her constituency . I sit down with she a couple of year ago after she have retire , and she talk with encyclopaedic knowledge about the Phurnacite plant and everything that go on with her campaign on that in the constituency . she tell I that at one point it be the most polluting plant in western Europe . she be resolute in her desire to fight for well air quality and standard for her constituent . she be not satisfied when the plant have close , but fight for the clean - up and the return of greenery and wildlife to that site . that sum she up . Ann help , stand up for and advocate for so many people , particularly individual detain abroad or who have their human right violate . that may have be speak up for Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe or other detain in a whole series of situation , though I would not want to breach any confidence . Ann be always on the phone to I about my own constituent who she work bravely and tenaciously to support . I be sure that Ann ' s advocacy and campaigning touch hundred and possibly thousand of people , and possibly change their life . they may not ever know that , but she do . I want to reflect on what a wonderful woman Ann be to spend time with privately . after she retire from this place I have the pleasure of spend a number of evening , lunch and chat with Ann at her home . she would invite I over , and we would talk and gossip about politic and what be go on in here . we would get into some serious conversation about different issue and campaign . she talk from her vast experience , but we also talk about her cat — she have story about every one of they . I be a big cat lover and , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) point out , Ann have a deep love of animal and have serious compassion for they . she tell story about their personality and how they act . she be incredibly proud of they . that show that human and compassionate side of her character . I remember stumble into Ann ' s house one evening . I do not know what have be go on but I have be run from one event to another . I have not eat and I be look a bit pasty . I walk in and Ann , who be not in the good of health at that stage , get up and say , " Stephen , I ' ll make you a chop , I ' ll put some vegetable on and make you dinner . " she cook dinner for I and make sure I be feed and water . that be a testament to the kind of woman she be . Ann be a remarkable woman . she will be miss by many , not just for her incredible campaigning internationally , nationally and for her constituent , but for her friendship , companionship , mentorship and inspiration to many of we in this place from different decade , different political persuasion and different part of our own Labour movement . we have hear today some of the story that show why she mean so much to so many of we . I congratulate the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) on secure the debate . it be a privilege to celebrate the contribution of her predecessor , the right hon . Ann Clwyd , the former Member of Parliament for Cynon Valley , who sadly pass away in July , age 86 . Ann be not just a public servant ; she be a great ambassador , whose dedication to her constituent and commitment to the value of justice and compassion have leave a significant positive impact on many people ' s life . she be bear in Flintshire on 21 March 1937 to parent Gwilym and Elizabeth . Ann be educate at Halkyn Primary School , Holywell Grammar School , the Queen ' s School , Chester , and University College Bangor before become a student teacher at Hope School in Flintshire . she move on to become a BBC studio manager , freelance reporter and producer , and then a journalist for the Guardian and the Observer . as we have hear , she be a major advocate for the Welsh language . she campaign to secure important funding to support it . in fact , I believe she could only speak Welsh until the age of five . she always make sure she take the parliamentary oath yn Gymraeg . in 1963 , Ann marry Owen Roberts , a television director and producer . ann ' s journey in politic span several decade , during which she consistently demonstrate her resilience , integrity and genuine concern for the wellbeing of her constituent . have join the Labour party in 1968 , she first stand for Parliament in 1970 in my part of the world , the old constituency of Denbigh . she then contest Gloucester in 1974 before be elect as a Member of the European Parliament for Mid and West Wales from 1979 to 1984 . while put together these word , I realise that she would have serve alongside my relative Beata Brookes , the former MEP for North Wales . then , in a by - election in May 1984 , she become the Member of Parliament for the Cynon Valley , become , as we have hear , the first female MP to a hold a seat in the south Wales valley . that be a seat she hold until she stand down in 2019 . in total , she serve 35 year in this place and be therefore Wales ' s long - serve female MP to date . she be also , I believe , the old woman to have sit in the House of Commons . between 1987 and 1995 , Ann be Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson for woman , education , overseas development and co - operation , Wales , national heritage , employment and foreign affair . during that period , she be , as we have hear , sack on two occasion for choose not to toe the party line , an indication that she be independently minded and not afraid to put her principle above all else . indeed , her autobiography be entitle " Rebel with a cause " . one of the most commendable aspect of Ann Clwyd ' s political career be her relentless pursuit of social justice . she champion human right , advocate for those who often have no voice . her work as the shadow Secretary of State for International Development and her role as the chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group demonstrate her dedication to improve the life of people in both her constituency and around the world . in 1994 , she stage a 27 - day sit - in at Tower colliery , near Hirwaun , in protest at British Coal ' s decision to close the last deep pit in Wales . the miner , of course , pool their redundancy money to take it over and it go on to produce coal until 2008 . in 2003 , the then Government move to amend the exist law on female circumcision — the prohibition of Female Circumcision Act 1985 — after a private Member ' s Bill be introduce by Ann . the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 increase the maximum penalty from five to 14 year in jail . Ann consistently campaign for healthcare reform , and for well resourcing of the NHS . she work to improve patient care , fight for well working condition for NHS professional and increase transparency in the healthcare system . she be appoint by the then Prime Minister David Cameron to lead a review on complaint procedure in the NHS follow the death of her own husband , Owen Roberts . while lead that review , she raise some difficult but honest concern about healthcare in Wales . her role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia help to ensure that those affect by that devastating condition receive the support and care that they deserve . Ann Clwyd be not just a leader in her own right ; she be also a strong supporter of woman ' s right and gender equality . her work in that area pave the way for great gender representation in politic , and have inspire many young woman to pursue career in public service . her legacy in this regard be a testament to her desire for create a more inclusive and equitable society . she be make a Privy Counsellor in 2004 . throughout her career , Ann Clwyd ' s ability to connect with people from all walk of life , listen to their concern and take action on their behalf earn she the respect and admiration of her constituent and colleague alike — and we have certainly hear plenty of example of that this evening . I serve in the House alongside Ann between 2015 and 2017 , and enjoy my occasional conversation with she about the NHS and our share connection in north Wales . she be personable , passionate and forthright . I understand that a public service to remember Ann ' s life and work will be hold at 2 pm on 13 October at St Elvan ' s Church in Aberdare . I have no doubt that her legacy will continue to inspire many for generation to come . Ann Clwyd have many friend across the House , and I be proud to have be allow to call myself one of they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .