Britain have a long and proud tradition of provide asylum to those flee war and persecution , and that patriotic principle must always remain . however , we must be honest : too many people be arrive in our country with no legal right to be here , and they must be return . far still , they must be prevent from enter our country altogether . the number be too high ; they must come down . the alternative be unacceptable . town such as Hartlepool be target by private provider of asylum accommodation because of our low housing cost . those provider be profit from this crisis and put a burden on Hartlepool ' s public service . local school , hospital and social service be force to absorb the consequence of a broken system — that be the reality that we face , and it must change . the Bill signal the Government ' s intention to do just that . instead of open border , we will have a Border Security Command . instead of a soft touch , we will have record deportation . instead of expensive gimmick , we will have far - reach new power that will put the boot of the state on the throat of the criminal gang whose trade , let we not forget , be the trafficking of human being . the Bill be about restore control and take decisive action to fix the system . hartlepool people be open , generous and welcoming . I have personally see their fundamental decency on display in community across our town , include at the Salaam Community Centre on Murray Street , where Nancy Pout and her amazing team take to the street after last summer ' s right and , alongside volunteer and council worker , clean up the devastation leave by mindless thug . they symbolise fundamental Hartlepool value . those value include fairness , which be why I believe that transparency in these matter be essential . Home Office figure provide to I by the House of Commons Library show that , as of September 2024 , Hartlepool be support 50 asylum seeker per 10 , 000 people . the neighbouring , large local authority be host just seven per 10 , 000 . there be local authority up and down this county for which the figure be zero . that can not be right . after 14 year of austerity for our public service , it must not be the most deprived area of our country that carry the big burden . when the break clause in the asylum accommodation contract come up in 2026 , I urge minister to use they and spread the burden fairly as we fix the system and bring the number down . this be about take back control of our asylum and immigration system , not through slogan and broken promise , but through real enforceable action . the people of Hartlepool , and community across the UK , deserve nothing less .