Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — NHS Dentists : North Shropshire what progress his Department have make on improve access to NHS dentist in North Shropshire constituency . last year , we announce a number of reform to the NHS dental system , make the NHS more attractive and help patient to access care . treatment and dental care deliver in England go up by a fifth between 2021 and 2022 . in North Shropshire , the number of adult see by a dentist between 2019 and 2022 fall by more than 10 % , from 47 . 5 % to 35 . 4 % , and the number of child see by a dentist in that time have fall by just about 10 % , from 59 % to 49 . 8 % . constituent report not be able to access a dentist , and be be turn away from their nhs dentist as they seek to take on only private work . can the Secretary of State reassure I that he be take step to ensure that dentist in rural area will continue to provide NHS service , because this healthcare problem will continue into the future ? we recognise that we need to do more . that be why we be make NHS dentistry more attractive by create more band of unit of dental activity , have a minimum UDA value , and increase to 110 % the amount of activity that dentist can do . indeed , Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin NHS trust , for example , be above the national average in the 24 month until June 2022 . we be put reform in place to build more capacity . elective Care Waiting Times what step his Department be take to reduce waiting time for NHS treatment . what recent progress he have make on reduce the number of patient wait more than 18 month for elective care . the elective recovery plan set out clear step to eliminate long wait , and that be support by £ 8 billion of revenue funding and £ 5 . 9 billion in capital over three year . the waiting list for elective care have rise to more than 7 million people , include one constituent who be unable to work while wait month for an orthopaedic assessment , and another who have be wait three year for a prostate operation . both have have to seek emergency care while they wait for an agonisingly long time . be it not true that the long the Conservatives stay in power , the long patient will wait ? on the last bit of the question , the average wait in Wales be 20 . 4 week as of April , and in England they be 13 . 8 week , which be the exact opposite of the point the hon . Lady raise . we be take action . we be boost diagnostic capacity ; 111 community diagnostic centre be now open . we be increase treatment capacity through our surgical hub programme . we be give patient choice , which be not available in Wales under the Labour Administration — we be give they more choice . we be also make well use of the independent sector , which some on the Labour Front Bench support but other do not . one of my constituent have now be wait 14 month for a hysterectomy , while another wait year to receive a much - need hip replacement . that be way over the 18 - week standard set out by the NHS Constitution . can the Secretary of State tell the House what be be do to get wait time down to that 18 - week mark ? we recognise the challenge from the pandemic , and that be why we be boost capacity , particularly through our community diagnostic centre . the additional capacity have already deliver more than 4 million extra test and scan . we be roll that programme out with the target of 160 , and 111 be already in place . Cancer Outcome target what step he be take to implement section 5 of the Health and Care Act 2022 . in accordance with section 5 of the Health and Care Act 2022 , the Secretary of State ' s mandate to NHS England for this year set out ambitious objective to improve outcome for cancer patient , include the specific aim of improve one - year and five - year survival of all cancer . many on the conservative Benches be pleased that section 5 be finally be implement , but we would urge the Government to ensure , when consult on the NHS mandate , that the focus be on outcome such as the one - year survival rate to encourage early diagnosis , and be not water down in favour of soft objective such as patient experience survey , because patient may not be aware of how badly the NHS compare on international survival rate , as recent research from the King ' s Fund have show . I congratulate my hon . friend on his commitment to ensure that we be focus on cancer outcome and on his successful campaign for that to be include in the NHS mandate , which it have be , as I just mention . the good way to improve outcome for cancer be by catch cancer early . that be one reason why we have a range of metric , include process metric , which measure early diagnosis and therefore help we to achieve our ambition on outcome . other metric such as patient experience be important as well . I agree with the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) . one of the problem be the time it take from the GP ' s referral to the consultant at the hospital and the treatment then start ; there be still concern about delay in that . what be the Minister do to speed up the process from not just the GP ' s referral to the consultant but from the consultant to treatment start ? the hon . member be right that the duration be very important . one reason why we be focus so much on increase early diagnosis be because we know that the soon we diagnose people , the more likely they be to have a successful outcome from cancer treatment . we be see improvement in cancer survival . for instance , in 2010 , two third of people would survive for one year after a cancer diagnosis ; now the figure be three quarter . the NHS be work very hard on far improve cancer diagnosis , and we have reduce the number of people wait more than 62 day since the pandemic by over a third . Cervical Screening and Ovarian Cancer what step he be take to increase awareness of ( a ) cervical screening and ( b ) ovarian cancer . we be catch more cancer early than ever before , and work to raise awareness of cancer sign and symptom , screen programme and investment in early diagnosis be all play their part . we fund community event to raise awareness of ovarian cancer , and NHS England be work to increase cervical screening take - up by provide more convenient appointment , include at weekend and evening . I thank the Minister for that answer , but Target ovarian Cancer have find that 40 % of woman in the UK wrongly believe that their smear test will detect ovarian cancer . there be currently no viable screening process for ovarian cancer . however , message remain unclear when woman be go for their smear test . what step be be take to ensure that information provide at such screening be clear ? on the one hand , cervical screening be incredibly important and very effective at save life from cervical cancer — we estimate that it save around 5 , 000 life per year . there be no evidence to support a screening programme for ovarian cancer , and I will take away the hon . Lady ' s question about whether there should be communication about that when people go for a cervical smear . vaping : young People what step he be take to tackle vaping by young people . the hon . Gentleman raise a point of concern across the House that we recognise . that be why we have already take action , through £ 3 million to crack down on those selling vape illegally to child , close the loophole that allow free sample to be offer to child , and our call for evidence , so that we can examine what further measure we can take , particularly on the concern about disposable vape , which be prevalent among child . that be helpful , but Labour propose a new clause to the Health and Care Bill that would have give the Government the primary power need to stop the use of sweet name such as gummy bear and Skittles , bright colour and cartoon character on packaging and labelling of e - cigarette . the Minister will agree that such promotion aim directly at young people be highly unacceptable and take we back to the bad day of cigarette advertising . if the Government be so committed to act in this space , why do they vote down that new clause ? as I say , we have already take action . we take measure in April , and the Prime Minister announce further measure in May . we be keen to follow the evidence . that be why we have have a call for evidence . the ministerial team be look extremely closely at this , and we will take further action to clamp down on something that we all recognise be a risk to child , which be why we be act on it . vape be smoking - cessation product ; they be not confectionery to be sell to child or a way of replace one generation hook on nicotine with another . will my right hon . friend update the House on the progress that the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have make on license e - cigarette and other inhaled nicotine - contain product as medicine , which would put out a strong message that vaping be a dangerous pastime ? as a former Health Minister , my hon . friend be well aware of the risk pose by vape . as the chief medical officer have say , " if you smoke , vaping be much safe ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape " . that be why we be toughen up the regime . we be also work with industry as part of our call for evidence , but we be clear on the need to go far . that be exactly what we will do . I call the SNP spokesperson . youngster who try e - cigarette be at much great risk of both nicotine addiction and later go on to use tobacco itself , so what consideration have this Government give to ban disposable vape completely as a way of protect our young people ? again , I agree that disposable vape be a particular concern : in our view , the growth in youth vaping be largely due to the growth in the use of disposable vape . that be why we have particularly focus on that issue in our call for evidence , and that be what we be consider . City - centre GP premise what assessment he have make of the potential impact of guidance issue by District Valuer Services on the availability of city - centre GP premise . while it be a very long - stand system , we keep the approach to funding for GP premise under review . we have take action in the primary care recovery plan to improve access to section 106 fund , so that new home always come with the GP infrastructure that be need . the Secretary of State and his Ministers will know that I first raise this issue in the Chamber on 6 June this year . integrated care board , GPs , and now the medical property sector be all tell I that the Treasury rule be out of date and be a massive block to secure much - need primary care premise in the right place , particularly in city centre such as St Albans . when I have ask the Department via write parliamentary question for its assessment of how much of a problem this issue be , the Department have tell I that it just do not know . could the Minister please tell we when he will be speak to colleague in the Treasury to resolve this issue , so that we can make sure that GP premise be secure where people need they most ? we talk all the time . I be conscious that there be 60 % more full - time patient - face staff in the hon . Lady ' s constituency than there be in 2019 , which of course put pressure on premise . the capital allocation for her local ICB between 2022 - 23 and 2024 - 25 be £ 200 million , so the money be there , but I be happy to continue the conversation about how we get the premise in the place where we need they . Pharmacy Services what recent progress he have make on increase the range of service in pharmacy . we have already be grow the range of NHS service available in pharmacy : we have set up the community pharmacist consultation service , the discharge medicine service , the new medicine service , the blood pressure check service , smoking - cessation service and the contraception service . we be now invest £ 645 million to go far through the new Pharmacy First scheme for common condition . I thank my hon . friend for his answer , but do he agree that the service offer by pharmacy can be make more efficient ? for example , 62 million prescription item be subject to " split and snip " per year . that be where , to get the right number of pill , a pack have to be manually open up for a couple of pill to be snip out , then repackage and relabelle before be reissue . the spare pill be often throw away . can that system not be well ? my hon . friend be completely correct . that be why at the end of last month we lay a statutory instrument before the House to fix the system , so that pharmacist can spend more time use their skill to provide high - end clinical service and less time snip blister pack . give the national shortage of GPs , do the Minister recognise that there be a potential danger in ask pharmacist to take on the duty of GPs — duty that they be not necessarily qualified to undertake — especially give the already large workload undertake by pharmacist ? we absolutely recognise the need for patient safety , which be why there will be clear patient group direction and clear pathway about what pharmacist do . they be not take on the role of GPs , but be provide additional service that will make thing more convenient for all of our constituent . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest £ 645 million to enable pharmacist to provide for far more common condition . I have already visit one of my own local surgery , the Shakespeare Road medical practice , and see at first hand how pharmacist be already work in GP surgery to try to reduce waiting time . surely , more surgery should be do the same , involve pharmacist with enhance role in order to cut waiting time in a manner that be safe . my right hon . friend be completely correct . that £ 645 million , of course , come on top of the £ 100 million that we have already put in . we have grow the pharmacy workforce hugely — there be 82 % more pharmacist now than in 2010 — and we be also enable those people with their high - end skill to do more by reform regulation . that be not just the blister pack issue ; we be enable they to do convenient thing such as hand out bag medicine even if the pharmacist be not present . will the Minister undertake to liaise closely with local community pharmacy representative group to ensure that the excellent work they have be do can be maximise , particularly give that the NHS be under severe pressure at the moment ? absolutely , and I always try to learn lesson from right across the UK . in fact , some of the idea for reform have come from listen to local partner . for example , our reform to enable modern way of working , hub - and - speak dispense and empower pharmacy technician have come from talk to those local partner . I call the shadow Minister . People across the country rely on local , accessible pharmacy , but whether it be high street closure or supply problem lead to the absurd situation where woman be phone or visit multiple pharmacy for a prescribed dose of hormone replacement therapy and other drug , the Government be again let people down . they have repeatedly announce plan to expand the role of community pharmacy , but have fail to update legislation that could possibly help . they keep collapse the business in this place , so we have time to sort it . why will they not do so ? I have give a flavour of the four different reform we be make . to give the wide picture , there be more pharmacy in England than there be in 2010 , there be 24 , 000 more pharmacist in England than there be in 2010 and we be put in £ 645 million to provide a bunch of service that be not there when Labour be in office . we be very happy to take lesson from the pharmacy sector , but not from the Labour party . Brain Cancer Treatments what step he be take to help improve the effectiveness of brain cancer treatment . we be work closely with research partner , and although I be pleased to say that more research be be fund , we want to see more research in brain cancer treatment . we continue to encourage more researcher to become involved in what remain a challenge scientific area , with a relatively small research community , but I be confident that the Government ' s continued commitment to funding will help we make progress towards effective treatment . I thank the Minister for that answer , and I be sure — and I know — he will take this very seriously . I have have three constituent in the last year come to see I who have suffer serious brain tumour , and they have have a very similar pathway , which be basically that after a certain point there be little the NHS can do for they . in particular , there be a shortage of neuro - oncologist , and one have spend their life saving on private treatment , even though that be difficult to find . be there any hope , in the NHS workforce plan , that there will be more oncology training and more support for neuro - oncology , because the survival rate for this cancer be still woefully low ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and I be sorry to hear of the experience of her three constituent . there certainly be hope within the long - term workforce plan . as she rightly allude to , we be reliant on researcher to submit high - quality research proposal , and that require clinician specialise in this area . it be something I take very seriously , and I would be very happy to work with she on it . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my father , the late Alan Bristow , die of a brain tumour in April 2020 . he be 77 , and that be incredibly sad , but when a child die of a brain tumour , it be unbelievably wicked . brain tumour be still the big killer of young people . what can the Minister do to ensure that appropriate funding be be put into research into brain tumour , especially for young people , and when will the Government respond to the o ' Shaughnessy review into clinical trial in the UK , which would help the brain tumour community ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I be sorry to hear of his own personal experience . he be absolutely right that , in relation to child , I be very keen to find a way forward . the Government be commit to find high - quality brain cancer research , and we expect to spend more as new research progress . the £ 40 million of funding announce will remain available , and if we can spend more on the good - quality science , we will do so . we work really closely with Lord O ' Shaughnessy on his review , we have accept his recommendation and we have put in £ 121 million to support it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Minister be aware , I know , of the outstanding campaigning work that my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) be do , not least because of the experience of her sister — our late great friend Margaret McDonagh — with glioblastoma . over decade now , we have see no improvement in outcome , no drug trial of any seriousness and no mandatory training of oncologist . I have learn through experience that , when the McDonaghs come knock , it be good to say yes , and if anyone say no , they will be hit by this unstoppable steamroller . with that cautionary note in mind , might the Minister be prepared to meet I , my hon . friend and relevant stakeholder across the Department , NHS England and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence to see what more can be do ? there be challenge , I know , but what more can be do to make sure that , for family such as my hon . friend ' s and Margaret ' s , and for thousand of other each year , glioblastomas be not simply a death sentence ? I thank the hon . member for that question and join he in pay tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) , especially after the tragic loss of her sister , for all the work that she have do in campaigning on this issue . I have spend significant time on the issue and I have meet she , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , campaigner , charity and other hon . member from across the House . funding for research be available and , have speak with the Secretary of State , I know that he be as keen as I be to work with colleague from across the House . there be issue that transcend party politic and this be certainly one of they . I would be very happy to meet the shadow Secretary of State , the National Institute for Health and Care Research , NHS England , the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission and clinical specialist to find a way forward . Mental Ill Health : West Yorkshire what assessment he have make of the adequacy of treatment for complex mental health illness in West Yorkshire . NHS West Yorkshire integrate care board have increase their investment in mental health service in line with their overall allocation increase . they have spend more than £ 591 million in the past financial year on their mental health service . I thank the Minister for that answer . my constituent , Joanne Allotey , have custody of her young granddaughter , who have complex mental health problem , but local mental health service in Leeds be still chronically underfunde after 13 year of Conservative Government cut . will the Minister join I in commend Roundhay high school for the support that it have give the family — this be the same school that the former Prime Minister claim " let down " child — and commit today to deliver truly effective child ' s education , health and care plan ? I absolutely pay tribute to the school in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . I also point out that Red Kite View be a new unit specifically for young people in his constituency . that 22 - bed mental health unit open last year and aim to eliminate out - of - area placement for young child with mental ill health . I be sure that he would welcome that investment in his constituency . the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill report back in January this year . one of the most important recommendation we make be about how people , during a period of wellness , could set out how they wish to be treat during a period of illness . the Government have yet to respond to the Joint Committee , but can we have a mental health bill in the forthcoming king ' s Speech , please ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . there be many recommendation during pre - legislative scrutiny . we be work through those and we hope to be able to respond fully shortly after the summer recess . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) highlight , all too often , child be stick on long waiting list for treatment . in West Yorkshire , 30 , 000 child be currently stick wait for mental health treatment , and more than 9 , 000 people have have their mental health referral close without access treatment . do the Minister find that acceptable ? if the answer be no , what will her government do about it ? this picture be not unique to West Yorkshire , but replicate across England . this government be let patient down . when be the Minister go to act to tackle the crisis in mental health service ? I thank the shadow Minister for her question . to highlight another initiative in West Yorkshire , the Night OWLS — Overnight West Yorkshire Living / Advice Service — helpline have be set up for child and young people . it be open between 8 pm and 8 be seven day a week for young people to access , in addition to the 24 / 7 helpline that be available . I be sure that the shadow Minister will also welcome the fact that we have more than 400 mental health support team in school in England , cover 3 million child , so that they can access mental health support directly at school . Health Inequalities what step he be take to help tackle health inequality . we be tackle the root cause of health inequality . we have double the duty on cigarette and bring in a minimum excise tax on the cheap cigarette . that have help to drive down smoking rate from 21 % to a record low of 13 % . we be go far , help a million smoker with our scheme to get people to stop smoke and start vape . we have provide £ 40 million to start roll out new weight - loss drug and , in the major condition strategy , we will talk far about how we will tackle health inequality . People in the north - east die young than people in the rest of England and spend more year in ill health . increase NHS waiting time leave they on medication for long . the north - east have the high level of people live in poverty , leave many of my constituent unable to afford prescription charge . some have tell I that they be take paracetamol instead of prescribe medication , worsen health inequality . will the Minister commit to scrap these unfair prescription charge ? nine out of 10 prescription be not pay for , but free at the point of delivery . on the various important point that the hon . Lady make , tackle health inequality be hugely important to we . that be why we be create 160 extra community diagnostic centre , which be target at area of the high deprivation . it be why we be roll out target lung health check in 43 area of the most deprivation . it be also why we be provide cost of live support worth about £ 3 , 300 for the average household in this country . it be one of the most generous scheme anywhere in Europe , exactly to tackle those cost of living pressure and health inequality . my hon . friend will be aware that health inequality can also be geographical within the south - east , with borough such as Bexley have historically receive less funding than other part of London . do he therefore agree that further investment in the fantastic Queen Mary ' s Hospital Sidcup would address that issue and improve health outcome for people in south - east London ? my hon . friend be assiduous in make the case for his constituency . minister of course will meet he to discuss this matter . I know he be closely follow the progress of the CDC bid , which we have be talk about . those diagnostic centre be do fantastic work to get early diagnosis and save more life , particularly in area of deprivation . I call the shadow Minister . from this complacent Minister ' s reply already , one would think that health inequality in England be improve , not widen . last year , 11 , 000 people , include 312 child , be hospitalise for malnutrition in the United Kingdom . that be the high number since comparable record begin . why be so many people in Britain go hungry under the Tories ? we need to have care in discuss these subject . eat disorder be a sensitive subject and the statistic the hon . Gentleman be quote be a mix of different thing . I have already talk about the £ 3 , 300 of cost of live support that this Government be provide to the average UK household , with more targeted help for more vulnerable household . it be something we be seize of and be work on . I call the SNP spokesperson . million of people with disability or serious medical condition rely on specialist equipment , such as ventilator or home dialysis , which personally cost they more money to run , while give considerable saving to NHS hospital . will the Minister urge Cabinet colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions to help to tackle health inequality by ensure that those people receive a fair and timely reimbursement for those additional cost , which be essential to run the equipment to help keep they alive ? absolutely . we be conscious of the additional need of people who have equipment like that . by the end of June , the Government have cover nearly half of a typical household ' s energy bill through the support scheme we put in place , but we be always look at what more we can do to help vulnerable household . Primary Care what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of primary care service closure on public health . each integrate care board be require to ensure access to GP service for all . overall , more people be be see in general practice than ever before — about 10 % more than before the pandemic — but where some practice close , the local ICB have to ensure that patient be transfer smoothly to other practice . Park View medical centre in West Derby , one of the most deprived area of my city , be face imminent closure , and there have be a lack of transparency and accountability throughout the process when deal with the ICB to get the decision reverse . in the Minister ' s reply to my letter , he say it be essential that , if a gp surgery close , it do not lead to a reduction in the quality of care for patient in the locality . Park View patient have be clear that dispersal to other surgery would be catastrophic , especially when all GPs be already face huge pressure . will the Minister urgently intervene to halt the closure due to the legal insufficiency of the consultation process and meet I and patient ? I have look carefully at that case , on which the hon . Gentleman have be campaign . the incumbent provider choose not to bid for the future contract for Park View medical centre , and NHS Cheshire and Merseyside decide that the good thing be to help patient to transfer to neighbouring practice . patient will only be transfer to practice rate as good , and there be 10 other practice rate as good within a 1 - mile radius of Park View . since 2019 , there have be an increase in the number of patient - face staff of about 50 % in the constituency . that mean there be more people in his GP surgery . we be work hard to ensure high - quality GP service in his constituency . health be devolve to Labour in Cardiff . Ynys M ô n be represent by five member of the Senedd , yet health represent a third of my postbag , particularly relate to access to primary care in Holyhead . do the Minister agree that family in Holyhead be not get the healthcare they need and deserve ? yes , it be true , I be afraid . People be about twice as likely to be wait for treatment in the Welsh NHS . wait be also long in Wales , with 30 , 000 people wait more than two year for treatment , even though those have be eliminate in England . England spend more on general practice than Scotland or Wales , despite the fact that Wales have 20 % more funding , and England have also grow spending on general practice fast than either Scotland or Wales . we be highly focused on get good primary care service in England . there be always lesson that we can learn from each other , but there be definitely lesson that Welsh Labour can learn from the English NHS . Vaccine Development and Evaluation what step his Department be take to create a vaccine development and evaluation centre . the vaccine development and evaluation centre , back by £ 65 million for state - of - the - art facility , at the Porton Down site have be operational since early last year . it support the autumn vaccine roll - out and the spring vaccine roll - out early this year . in November 2021 , Dame Kate Bingham rightly call the decision to withdraw support for the Valneva whole virus vaccine " inexplicable " because a broad portfolio of vaccine be important as we move forward against future variant . the British Society for Immunology state that there be an urgent need for second and third - generation covid vaccine , include universal mucosal vaccine with long - last protective immunity . with grow public concern and mount clinical and scientific evidence of vaccine injury from mRNA , why be the UK not seek to harness the power of all technology instead of establish an inexplicable exclusive relationship with Moderna ? I confirm to the hon . Gentleman that , in the recent spring campaign , we deploy four approve vaccine — pfizer - biontech , Moderna , Novavax and Sanofi - GSK — as part of our roll - out . we be use a range of vaccine to protect we from the pandemic . young People ' s Mental Health : housing whether his Department have make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the availability of housing on young people ' s mental health . we be work with a number of Government Departments , include the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , to tackle the effect of housing insecurity on young people ' s mental health . the mental health of young people be be impact by the fact that net migration be far too high and we be not build nearly enough house . the Government need to take action on that , but young people worry that , with an age population , the health service will not be able to provide for they in future . may I commend to the Minister the excellent paper publish by the former Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair , which suggest thing such as co - payment and personalised app ? would it not be ironic if a former Labour Prime Minister be more radical on reform of the NHS than a Conservative Government ? actually , under this government , last year , the number of first - time buyer pass the 400 , 000 mark , which be the high number in 19 year . I will not take any lecture from a former Labour Prime Minister because when Labour be in government it saddle the NHS with a £ 10 billion fail IT system that never see the light of day , an £ 80 billion fail private finance initiative contract that NHS trust be still pay for , and a GP contract that enable opt - out at weekend and evening , which patient still suffer from . today mark the three - year anniversary of the death of Tom Pirie , who tragically take his own life just day after be assess as at low risk of do so by his counsellor . over the last few year , I have be work with Tom ' s father Philip on his campaign to improve suicide risk assessment procedure , particularly in view of the upcoming 10 - year suicide prevention strategy review . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to Tom ' s life and Philip ' s excellent work in his memory by provide we with an update as to when we can expect the review to be publish ? I absolutely pay tribute to Tom and to his father . I reassure he that we have many campaigner . only last week , we receive the baton of hope at no . 10 from those campaign to reduce the number of suicide in this country . we be work on the suicide prevention plan and hope to be able to publish it very soon . Hormone Replacement Therapy what step he be take to tackle shortage in hormone replacement therapy . we continue to engage regularly with our supplier to prevent and mitigate supply issue in the short term . we have over 70 HRT product . the vast majority be available . we have two that have serious shortage protocol attach to they , but we be hope to improve supply on those very soon . although shortage of Utrogestan be ongoing , there be no alternative progesterone product recommend on the serious shortage protocol . take oestrogen without progesterone can be dangerous . provera be a synthetic progesterone alternative to Utrogestan , but it be not include on the HRT prepayment certificate . will the Minister commit to place Provera on the list of product cover by the prepayment certificate as a priority and issue a public health warning highlight the risk of take oestrogen without progesterone ? we be in the process of issue another bulletin to both GPs and pharmacist on the serious shortage protocol and to make clear the alternative available . that be a clinical decision . I will certainly look at the issue of Provera because medicine have to tick off a number of criterion to be eligible for the prepayment certificate . I will certainly look into that particular drug on the hon . Lady ' s behalf . Social Care Workforce what step he be take to increase the social care workforce . social care depend on the skill and compassion of our care workforce . that be why we be invest £ 250 million in reform care as a career , with a new care qualification , specialist training course for experienced care worker and a new career structure to support progression , alongside increase funding for social care , our national recruitment campaign and the care worker visa . we need many , many more domiciliary care worker . how will we get they ? my right hon . friend be right . we have some good news : skill for Care datum show that home care job vacancy be fall — something I hear when I speak to home care provider . look ahead to next winter , I want every local authority to have enough home care on hand . that be why I emphasise the importance of home care when we distribute £ 600 million of discharge funding to local council and NHS organisation in April . we be ask all local authority to plan ahead and book enough home care in advance for this come winter . be this not the very day to thank our care worker up and down the country ? so many family depend on those people who toil away , day by day , visit house , often not be pay in between their visit . could we look closely at recruitment and the agency involve ? let we get real pay for care worker up , now . I think that every day be a good day to thank our care worker for their skill , compassion and hard work . we give social care a record funding settlement of up to £ 7 . 5 billion in the autumn statement , which be be use to help local authority increase the fee that they pay to care provider , in turn enable care provider to pay their workforce well . that be go hand in hand with extra funding to support discharge into social care this winter and our reform for the care workforce . care setting : family visit what step he be take to ensure that people in care setting be permit family visit . I know how important it be for people in care home , hospital and hospice to see their family and friend . the majority of health and care provider follow national guidance . I do not want anyone to worry about not be able to visit a love one , which be why in June we launch a consultation to change the law on visit . as the Minister know , last month I introduce my ten - minute rule Bill , the Care Supporters Bill , to make sure that we recognise in law the value of the care of a love one . will her consultation differentiate between a care supporter and a visitor ? currently , the Care Quality Commission do not investigate individual case . will it have the power to do that in future ? first , I commend the hon . member for his campaign on this issue . he have be a powerful advocate and draw on his own experience , as do I . he be probably ask I to pre - empt the outcome of the consultation . I encourage he and other concerned about this matter to put their view into that consultation , and we will respond once it be close . International Health Regulations what recent progress he have make in negotiation with the World Health Organisation on propose amendment to the International Health Regulations 2005 . the UK continue to negotiate on amendment , alongside other member state of the World Health Organisation . we want to ensure that the International Health Regulations be effective in prevent and respond to potential health threat , leave the UK well prepare for future health emergency . we anticipate negotiation to continue until the 77th World Health Assembly in May next year . will the Minister assure I that the propose change to the International Health Regulations be negotiate will not give new rule - make power , such as those table by Bangladesh , to the WHO director general to make binding direction on matter include border closure , quarantining and vaccine passport ? even the WHO ' s own expert review committee have raise concern over such significant increase in power . as my right hon . friend will know , the UK have a strong commitment and duty to implement international law , but on this matter we have be absolutely clear . I can certainly assure she that we will not sign up to any IHR amendment or any other instrument that would compromise the UK ' s ability to make domestic decision on national measure concern public health . can the Minister confirm whether the House will get a vote on the amendment to the International Health Regulations , or will we not ? should the UK Government wish to accept an IHR amendment , change to domestic law to reflect propose obligation may indeed be require . the Government would therefore prepare draft legislation and bring it before Parliament in the usual way . let I repeat that in all circumstance , the sovereignty of the UK Parliament would remain unchanged and the UK would retain control of any future decision around national public health measure . coroner : stillbirth if he will publish the result of the consultation on give power to coroner to investigate stillbirth . the consultation on give power to coroner to investigate stillbirth receive 334 response , include from bereaved parent , charity , the Chief Coroner , clinician and a range of other organisation . Mr Speaker , you be very familiar with the problem over the implementation of my civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( Registration etc ) Act 2019 , which pass this House in February 2019 . section 4 remain incomplete . the consultation be complete in June 2019 . Mr Speaker , you be aware that I make six attempt to get a meeting with the Minister and a Justice Minister . eventually , I get it in March , after the Leader of the House intervene . four month on , I have hear nothing and the consultation remain unpublished . what will it take to get this legislation , which everyone want and which be pass unanimously , into law ? I thank my hon . friend for his work in this space and I apologise for the delay in publish the consultation . I meet he along with a Justice Minister , and I assure he that we hope to publish it very soon . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last week , on behalf of the Government , I sign a landmark partnership agreement with the pharmaceutical giant biontech . it aim to deliver 10 , 000 personalised mrna cancer immunotherapy , include vaccine , to UK patient by 2030 . this work will harness the groundbreake mrna technology that biontech use in its world - first cancer vaccine . cancer vaccine work by stimulate patient ' immune system to recognise and eliminate cancer cell , prevent their spread . trial for biontech ' s colorectal cancer vaccine be under way at multiple site across the UK . to accelerate trial far , BioNTech be partner with NHS England ' s new cancer vaccine launch pad , a platform that make it easy for both early and late stage cancer patient to join vaccine trial . in the come year , hundred of patient identify by the launch pad will join trial for biontech ' s personalised cancer therapy , broaden the treatment option available to cancer patient . I hope the whole House will welcome the opportunity the deal offer future patient . the announcement that a new hospital between Winchester and Basingstoke be go ahead be much welcome by my constituent who will use it , as well as by those from other constituency . it will provide a centre of excellence with well medical outcome . will my right hon . friend meet local mp , so we can update he on why the hospital need to be build as soon as possible ? I be always very happy for my hon . friend and other colleague to meet I or Lord Markham , who lead the capital programme . it be an important scheme . we be deliver it through the standardised Hospital 2 . 0 approach , use modern method of construction . we be keen to progress early support work on site , work closely with colleague . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last week , the Health Secretary say that he be willing to offer doctor a high pay rise . last night , the Chancellor slap he down , say that any increase offer will have to be pay for by cut . how can the Health Secretary negotiate an end to the NHS strike when he can not even negotiate with his own Chancellor ? we have be clear throughout that government decision on the pay review body ' recommendation be take on a cross - Government basis . the agreement that we reach with the large group of NHS staff , those on " Agenda for Change " , have demonstrate that we be willing to work constructively with trade union colleague , but the demand from junior doctor for a 35 % increase be not affordable — indeed , the hon . Gentleman himself have say that he do not support it . but the bad strike in the history of the NHS be still to come . the impact of the junior doctor ' strike and the consultant ' strike will be devastating for patient . the Secretary of State have fail to stop these strike for seven month . he have lose the confidence of nurse , radiologist , junior doctor and consultant , and he can not even successfully negotiate with his Chancellor , so what be his plan to stop these strike go ahead ? the hon . Gentleman ' s message be not even consistent with what he say at the weekend in the medium : that he be not in a position to offer more money to the NHS , and that the shadow Chancellor have make that clear — in a vain attempt to demonstrate some sort of fiscal responsibility . the hon . Gentleman have be clear that he do not support the 35 % demand from doctor in training . we be demonstrate that we be work constructively with group such as the " Agenda for Change " group — the large staff group , make up of over 1 million staff — with which we have reach a deal . we have also be respond constructively to the British Medical Association ' s principal demand for consultant , which be for change to pension taxation . we be willing to engage constructively with trade union colleague , but the 35 % demand be not affordable . he need to decide on his position . which be it : his position at the weekend that the opposition be not offer more money , or his position today , which seem to be that they will ? I have campaign for more health service for my constituent since I be elect , and 97 % of those who respond to my recent health service survey feel that we do not have enough doctor for the number of people in the constituency . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss how to sort this out and get my constituent the health service that they deserve ? we be conscious that more be go on in general practice than ever before . there be 10 % more appointment than before the pandemic , as well as 29 , 000 extra clinician and nearly 2 , 000 more doctor , but we be conscious of the pressure that put on the estate locally . I would be very happy to meet and have further conversation with my hon . friend . I be sure that the Secretary of State share my concern that school nurse report increase rate of child present with health issue result from poor nutrition . in Scotland , the SNP Government have roll out universal free school meal for all pupil in primary year 1 to 5 and special school , and the expansion of the programme continue . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with Cabinet colleague about follow Scotland ' s lead and expand free school meal provision in England to improve child ' s health and wellbee ? of course we have regular discussion , not just with Cabinet colleague , but with our counterpart across the UK . I have a meeting just yesterday with Health Ministers , include my counterpart in Scotland , on the share challenge . on the issue that the hon . Lady raise , as the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) say a moment ago , we be provide significant support for household — over £ 3 , 300 in support — but we also have measure that target school , include holiday support measure and wide health and wellbeing measure , such as our significant investment in school sport . the Minister be fully aware of Bupa ' s decision to close its dental clinic in York , at Holgate Park . I put on record my thank to he for work with I to find a solution for those constituent affect by the decision . what be be do to reassess out - of - date dental contract , so that we can ensure that increase demand be meet and that my constituent get the access to dental care that they deserve ? we be take action , which be why the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough meet my hon . friend recently . in his area of Humber and North Yorkshire , there have be an increase in the number of child see by NHS dentist over the previous 12 month , so the picture be improve , but we recognise that there be more to do ; that be why we have make a number of reform to the dental contract and why we will announce further plan shortly . a recent freedom of information request by the Labour party reveal that mental health patient be leave wait more than 5 . 4 million hour for treatment in A & E last year . last week , one of my constituent spend five day in A & E wait for a bed on a psychiatric ward . when will the Government bring an end to this shameful situation ? we be take significant action on mental health , which be why we be invest £ 2 . 3 billion more , compare with four year ago . we have target measure as part of our urgent and emergency care recovery plan , include 100 mental health ambulance . we be put in additional capacity , such as crisis caf é s , to support emergency department . we be also make mental health support available through 111 for the first time , which will allow we to get to issue early , before people be admit to hospital . I be delighted when the Government award Stockton a new £ 25 million diagnostic hub , but my local Labour council , which be a partner in deliver the project , appear happy to accept month of delay in complete it . do my hon . friend agree that Labour ' s delay could cost life ? will he work with I to ensure that all partner understand the urgency of the project ? that be hugely frustrating , because I know how hard my hon . friend campaign for the Stockton community diagnostic centre and that he recognise the urgency of increase diagnostic capacity locally . delivery plan have to be agree at a local level , so I urge Stockton council to work with he to meet the ambitious timeline and get Stockton CDC open as soon as possible . a recent report by the Trussell Trust warn that people face hunger be more likely to be affect by spiral debt and a decline in their physical and mental health . the same report show that one in seven people in the UK face hunger in the last year due to a lack of money . will the Minister make representation to his colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions about increase support for low - income household , thereby improve public health outcome for all ? it be to protect public health that we have provide cost of live support worth £ 3 , 300 on average per household , and that be why we have be pay about half of people ' s average electricity and other energy bill . however , we always look at further thing we can do to drive improvement in public health . what step be the Department take to prevent chronic kidney disease , give that the recent report publish by Kidney Research UK predict a significant rise in case of kidney failure in 10 year ' time ? in the last three year , the National Institute for Health and Care Research have invest more than £ 30 million in kidney disease research . NHS England be follow a national approach to reduce healthcare inequality , with a specific focus on some of the risk factor for kidney disease , such as chronic respiratory disease . as diabetes be the most common cause of kidney disease , it will be a focus of our major condition strategy . four in 10 people who visit low vision clinic have be diagnose with clinical depression . it be vital that blind and partially sight people have access to psychological therapy throughout their sight loss journey to address the impact . however , National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance do not include psychological support in the eye care pathway . will the Secretary of State commit to review the nice guidance to ensure that psychological therapy be integrate into the eye care pathway ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . I would be keen to take it away and look at it to see how we can work together to pick it up . many of my constituent be still struggle to get NHS dental appointment , so what be happen right now — this week , this month — to increase the availability of NHS dental appointment for they ? I know how intensely my hon . friend be campaign on this issue . the amount of NHS dentistry be deliver have go up by a fifth over the last year , partly as a result of the reform we be already roll out . he will have see in the workforce plan that we be go to increase training place for dentist by 40 % so that we have the nhs dentist we need . however , that be not all we will do , and our forthcoming dental plan will take further step . we have know for a while that our life expectancy be short than it be in 2010 . however , we be now see impact on child in the UK , who be about 7 cm short at five compare , for example , with the child of our neighbour in Holland . what be the Secretary of State do on this issue , and will he support the all - party parliamentary group on health in all policy in assess the impact on health and health inequality ? of course we be take action to improve public health , and that include child ' s nutrition . that be why we be spend £ 150 million on healthy food scheme , such as the school fruit and vegetable scheme , the nursery milk scheme and Healthy Start . it be also why we be invest £ 330 million a year in school sport and the PE premium and a furth £ 300 million through the youth investment fund . we will continue to take action on this key issue . I be delighted that a new diagnostic centre be shortly to be build at our terrific Woking Community Hospital , very close to woke town centre . do the Minister agree that provide state - of - the - art diagnostic care right in the heart of the community can cut NHS waiting list , reduce carbon emission and , most importantly , help to optimise health outcome for patient ? not only do I agree , but I have be with my hon . friend to see this scheme at first hand . he have champion the scheme vociferously and help to secure that investment for his constituent . I look forward to work with he to ensure it be deliver as quickly as possible . plan to remove overnight primary care clinician from Westmorland General Hospital three night a week be a massive risk to our community and mean that , overnight , people will be reliant on Barrow or Penrith for an out - of - hour doctor . will the Secretary of State instruct the ICB to intervene to protect people in South Lakeland from this massive reduction in the quality and accessibility of service ? some of we remember when the Lib Dems be for great localism . one of the thing we be look at be how to empower commissioner , on a place - base basis , to make decision on where good to place service . we need to move more service into the community upstream , to address the frail elderly before they get to hospital and to have more community service . I be happy to look at the specific issue the hon . Gentleman raise , but I would have think the Lib Dems would support the general trend of empower integrate commissioning system to make place - base decision . several important pharmacy in my constituency , include the one in Hawkhurst , have be experience pressure , with long queue of customer sometimes go outside the door . it be say that access to train pharmacist be prove very challenging . will the Secretary of State comment on the situation and say what step he might be able to take to alleviate the pressure ? there be a number of measure in the primary care recovery plan , from how we well use the skill mix within pharmacy to how we deregulate some of the task that take up pharmacist ' time , such as the requirement for a pharmacist to be present after drug have already be prepare or to clip out tablet because they do not match the number prescribe by a gp . there be a number of area in which we can well use the skill mix , and there be area where we can take load off pharmacist . we be also fund additional service through Pharmacy First to support the pharmacy model . the number of death increase by 13 . 5 % in December 2022 , particularly around influenza and pneumonia — up by 26 . 2 % — so York ' s public health team want to know what the Government be go to do about winter planning and when . we set out comprehensive plan for winter preparation in the urgent and emergency recovery plan . similar to what I say a moment ago , this include make much well use of community scheme , particularly those target at the frail elderly , and make well use of technology through scheme such as virtual ward . it have also put additional bed capacity into hospital , with more than £ 1 billion of funding for 5 , 000 more permanent bed to help alleviate the pressure on bed occupancy and get flow through hospital , which be so important to address the pressure on ambulance . I call the Chairman of the Health and Social Care Committee . back to NHS dentistry , I be afraid . later this week , the Select Committee will publish its report on NHS dentistry service . spoiler alert : it will be uncomfortable reading for some . will the Secretary of State tell we when and how he plan to bring forward plan for the tie - in of newly qualified dentist ? could that go hand in hand with a " return to the NHS " campaign for dentist who have already leave that part of the service ? it be characteristically astute of my hon . friend to zero in on the tie - in , which be an important part of the long - term workforce plan . around two third of dentist do not go into NHS work after training , so have a tie - in be more pertinent there than it might be elsewhere in the NHS workforce . [ Official Report , 12 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 8MC . ] I look forward to the Select Committee ' s report but , with some of the reform already in place , we be boost the number of patient treat . there be a fifth more dental treatment in 2022 than in the previous year . we be also make NHS dentistry more attractive with some of the change to the previous 2006 contract , but we recognise that there be more to do , which be why we will shortly set out our dental recovery plan . I have receive a wave of concern from clinician on the safety of use physician associate , follow my Adjournment debate last week in which I raise the death of Emily Chesterton , the 30 - year - old daughter of my constituent Marion and Brendan . Emily die of a pulmonary embolism after be see twice by the same physician associate at her gp practice . the physician associate fail to refer she to a doctor or to a hospital emergency unit for test , which the coroner conclude could have prevent her death . yesterday , on " Good Morning Britain " , the Secretary of State boast of increase the number of people work in primary care , presumably include the workforce plan proposal to triple the use of physician associate . will he look urgently at the detail of Emily Chesterton ' s case and ask himself whether lesson can be learn to avoid other preventable death ? have respond to the hon . Lady ' s Adjournment debate last Thursday , I hear the call she have make . I know that she have also write to the Secretary of State , and I will ensure that she get a full response , with answer to all the question she raise . my good friend the mental health Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) — will know that I have be busy beaver away , together with the UK Government ' s mental health ambassador , Dr Alex George , on the early support mental health hub project . it will relieve pressure on child and adolescent mental health service and save undue distress and money . the pilot scheme be ready to go . might I suggest that the share outcomes fund could be the mean to press on with the pilot ? Dr Alex George do a lot of fantastic work . I be due to meet he shortly in the come day , and I look forward to that discussion . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of get more mental health support into the community , which be exactly what our additional funding be focus on deliver . eighteen community pharmacist in my constituency be report challenge on medicine supply . what more be the Minister go to do to get a grip of this situation ? we have a long - stand team in the Department focus on medical supply , which be a continual issue ; as a matter of routine business , there be often challenge in that area . if the hon . Gentleman have specific issue he wish to raise , we would be happy to look at they , but we have a dedicated team in the Department that focus on that exact point . as my right hon . friend know , I have be campaign for £ 118 million of capital funding , the majority of it for Southend University Hospital , ever since I be elect . I be grateful that he have recently confirm that the funding be secure . a new business plan be be submit , include £ 9 million of enable funding . will he look upon that favourably and swiftly ? as my hon . friend know , I have already meet she to discuss this scheme , and the impediment be the business plan that come forward from the local trust — further work be be do on that . she be right to highlight our capital investment more widely . this Government have commit to invest in the big ever hospital building programme , with more than £ 20 billion . that be in addition to our long - term workforce plan — the first time the NHS have do this — in which we be make a furth £ 2 . 4 billion of investment . be the Minister aware that the NHS North East and North Cumbria mental health and wellbee hub be due to close this September ? with mental health care in crisis in County Durham , that be an insult to the health and social care staff who desperately rely on those service . will the Minister reverse that decision ? there be two issue here . one be how much investment we be prioritise towards mental health ; the other be how local commissioner choose to prioritise service within those community , and whether we try to run all of those decision from the centre in Whitehall or embrace the 42 integrate care system and allow they to make commissioning decision . the bottom line be that we be spend much more on mental health , with an increase of £ 2 . 3 billion compare with the position four year ago . that be allow we to replace 500 dormitory bed and provide 100 mental health ambulance , three new mental health hospital , 160 project such as crisis caf é s to support accident and emergency , and £ 75 million to help those with mental health challenge get back into work , which be one of the good prevention measure we can take for people who be suffer with their mental health . Financial Services Reforms with permission , Mr Speaker , I will update the House on the Government ' s late effort to make the UK the most open , innovative and competitive financial centre in the world . we know how important financial and related professional service be to this country . they employ more than 2 . 5 million people and generate more than £ 100 billion in tax revenue . two third of those job lie outside the south - east and London . as we lay the foundation for long - term growth , it be vital that these sector continue to succeed . last night , at Mansion House , the Chancellor make clear some of the policy that this Government will pursue , build on last year ' s Edinburgh reform . the full package of policy be publish this morning , and I be pleased to share some of they with the House at this first opportunity . they fall under three theme : first , through a series of measure , improve outcome for long - term saver and increase investment in high - growth company by reform the UK ' s pension market ; secondly , incentivise company to start and stay in the UK by strengthen our position as a listing destination ; and thirdly , reform and simplify our financial service rulebook to ensure that we have the most growth - friendly market possible , without compromise our commitment to high - quality regulation . I begin with our pension market , which be the large in Europe and worth more than £ 2 . 5 trillion . the market be mean to provide safe retirement income for later life . in many case , it do a very good job of that , but it can do so much more . I pay huge tribute to the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , for her crucial work on this . in lay out our plan , the Chancellor have set three golden rule : first , that in everything we do , we will seek to secure the good possible outcome for pension saver , with their need first and foremost ; secondly , that we will always prioritise a strong and diversified gilt market as we seek to deliver evolutionary change in our pension market ; and thirdly , that the decision we take must always strengthen the UK ' s competitive position as a lead financial centre . today , however , UK institutional investor invest less in UK high - growth company than their international counterpart . while many define - benefit fund be in surplus , their return be low than some international peer , and some may still be underfunde . at the same time , on their current trajectory , some define - contribution scheme may not provide the return that their pension fund holder expect . critically , DC scheme also invest less than 1 % in unlisted equity . australian scheme , for example , invest around 5 % . to bridge that gap , the Chancellor join the Lord Mayor and chief executive of many of our large DC scheme to sign the Mansion House compact . its signatory , who represent around two third of the entire market , be commit to the objective of allocate at least 5 % of their default fund to unlisted equity by 2030 , unlock up to £ 50 billion of investment in high - growth company by that time — help company to grow while improve rate of return for investor . to far boost return , we will facilitate a programme of DC consolidation . as the Department for Work and Pensions , Pensions Regulator and Financial Conduct Authority response to the value for money framework consultation make clear , investment decision should be make base on long - term return and not simply on cost . pension scheme that be not achieve the good outcome for their member will face be wind up by the Pensions Regulator , and we will set out a road map to encourage new collective DC fund . to help scheme access a wide range of investment opportunity , we have launch the LIFTS — long - term investment for technology and science — competition , which enable they to invest quickly and effectively in unlisted high - growth company . bid have already start to come in for up to £ 250 million of Government support , and we be consider they closely . we will also explore the case for Government to play a great role in establish investment vehicle , build on the skill and expertise of the British Business Bank ' s commercial arm . meanwhile , on define - benefit scheme , we recognise that the regulatory landscape be too fragmented and believe that there be scope for consolidation . we have launch a call for evidence on the role of the Pension Protection Fund and the part that define - benefit scheme play in productive investment . take together , our pension announcement will have a real and significant impact . for an average earner who start save at the age of 18 , these measure could increase the size of their pension pot by 12 % over their career . that be more than £ 1 , 000 a year in retirement . that be a real upgrade to the power and the outcome of our pension scheme . we already have the large stock market in Europe , and , in 2021 , we attract the most ipos — initial public offering — outside the US , but we want the world ' s fast grow company to grow here and to list here . we have now publish our near - final draft legislation on prospectus reform , which will create a more effective regime than its EU predecessor , give company more flexibility to raise even large sum from investor more quickly . we welcome Rachel Kent ' s excellent Investment Research Review , which be publish this morning , and the Government be accept all the recommendation make to we . as we continue to free ourselves from outdated retain EU law , we have abolish protectionist rule , such as the share trading obligation and double volume cap , so that UK business can access the good and most liquid market anywhere in the world . finally , we be ensure that our financial service sector have the regulatory freedom to innovate at a speed that match our modern world . to that end , the House recently pass the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , which require our regulator to facilitate growth and international competitiveness alongside their other objective . with it , we have publish today legislation to repeal almost 100 piece of retain EU law for financial service that be irrelevant to our market , such as payment account regulation and long - term investment fund , and we say farewell to the unloved package retail and insurance - base investment product . this be not divergence for divergence ' s sake , but sensible reform work with the sector . this be a significant body of work . this government ' s vision for the UK be one of long - term growth , fuel by strong british finance , provide return for saver , fund for business , and investment for our economy . that be what we be focus on , and that be what these reform deliver . I thank the Minister for an advance copy of his statement . however , after 13 year of a low growth , low investment economy , these promise be too little , too late . on this Government ' s watch , far too many high growth firm , particularly in the tech sector , have be buy by foreign competitor or have choose to list in the US , in order to scale - up and grow . arm holding , a UK tech success story , be now set to float in New York rather than in London . the Chancellor have be completely silent on this . when alarm bell be ring , the Ministers shrug their shoulder . capital hold in pension fund be vital for the growth of our most innovative company . in the US , approximately 70 % of venture capital funding come from pension fund , while in the UK the figure be below 20 % . that be just not good enough . this government ' s failure to mobilise pension money into productive asset come at a cost . british pension saver have not be get the return that they should expect . it seem that a person be more likely to own a share in UK infrastructure today if they be a canadian teacher rather than a british citizen . time and again , the conservative party have promise action to unlock the patient capital that british firm need to thrive and grow , but have fail to deliver . there would surely be great confidence give to saver , grow firm and financial service if the Government have provide more detail yesterday on how to turn this around . the Chancellor ' s compact for DC pension fund lack any plan to ensure that this will increase investment in UK asset rather than simply go overseas . what guarantee can the Government provide that british high growth firm will be able to access the capital they need to thrive and create good job in every part of the UK ? with no clear roadmap , how will that be achieve ? I turn to what the Chancellor say last night about want to make London a listing destination . it be as though his party have not be in government for 13 year now . I remind the Chancellor that he be sit around the Cabinet table for the good part of a decade during that time . labour have be call for action on list for month and the Government have refuse to listen . in the first quarter of this year there be just four London listing , raise only £ 81 million , the sixth - bad quarter for ipos in London since 1995 . that be pitiful . I acknowledge and indeed welcome the fact that in some area the Government be rather belatedly start to follow labour ' s lead , but what have take they so long ? where be the urgency , the ambition and the drive ? can the Minister explain why there be nothing at all in the Chancellor ' s speech on green finance ? that complacency put our status as a net zero financial centre at risk . labour be committed to ensure that the City retain its competitiveness outside the EU , whether through create a positive environment for fintech or reform of Solvency II , and do so without compromise on stability . yet the Government have promise Solvency II reform 10 time in recent year with nothing to show for it . we , and the country , will not take any lesson on financial stability from a government that set fire to the economy last autumn with their mini Budget . that result in a Tory mortgage bombshell , with family face £ 240 per month in high mortgage cost when remortgage , through no fault of their own . the truth be that the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech be not a big bang at all — it be a small splutter . there be none of the detail require to build confidence , no responsibility take for the last 13 year of economic failure , and no strategy to end the doom loop of tory economic failure . the Labour party have a plan to unlock the full potential of the private sector to get the british economy grow again in the national interest . through our active partnership with the City , reform to the British Business Bank and a modern industrial strategy , we will grow the economy and help Britain to become the good place to start and grow a business . this tired Tory Government be out of time . it be time for they to step aside so that we can have a Government who will favour the national british interest — [ interruption . ] there be no point conservative Members laugh . the truth be that we need a Labour Government to provide the energy , the idea and the leadership that our country and our constituent desperately need . it be always a pleasure to listen to the hon . Lady . in general , what I learn be that the opposition have no plan . it be all critique and no counter - proposal . she talk about this be too little , too late , but this Government be move at pace , in what the sector acknowledge as one of the fast rate of implementation of financial service reform for a generation , take advantage of our Brexit freedom and the regain control of our rulebook , which she and her party seek to oppose again and again . the hon . Lady talk about the lack of growth , but under Labour I be tell that the percentage of the workforce with a private pension decline by 20 % . she also talk about patient capital , which should not be a point of disagreement between we . this government have do an enormous amount to support british patient capital , with £ 2 . 3 billion of investment , and we have recently increase the length of the british patient capital scheme for a further period . the hon . Lady also talk about capital go overseas , but that be nothing to the degree to which capital would be flood overseas be her party ever to return to power , accelerate we to the point where once again the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be write note to remind we there be no money leave . I potentially discern a point of difference between we , which perhaps in due course she will clarify , in the approach to the compact . it be not the position of this government to mandate where people ' s pension should be invest . indeed , the last time a Labour Chancellor decide what be good for our pension scheme , it do not end well . finally , the hon . Lady talk about green finance . this government be do a copious amount on green finance ; only yesterday my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero meet some of the world leader in green finance , and early this year we publish an ambitious green finance strategy , continue the UK ' s progression to be one of the world ' s first net zero - align financial centre . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I should probably note in this context that I be a trustee of the Parliamentary Contributory Pension Fund . I warmly welcome the work that the Economic Secretary and the pension Minister have do in this important area , and strongly endorse what the Economic Secretary say about its meaning that future pensioner will be able to retire with high pension income . however , he will know that I have put another piece of urgent work in his inbox , about help the 93 % of our constituent who be unable to afford access to financial advice and have to rely on bog - standard generic guidance . can he update the House on how his review of the advice - guidance boundary be go and how he will help the majority of people who save in define - contribution scheme to get access to some sort of personalised coaching or guidance ? it be always a pleasure to respond to my hon . friend and to the work of her tremendous Treasury Committee , which rage across this broad financial sector . she be right to raise the question of access to financial advice ; I be afraid the world of financial service regulation be fraught with unintended consequence , and one unintended consequence of financial regulation and a grow compensation culture be to move financial advice beyond the financial ability of so many people who would benefit from receive it . that be call the advice gap . I and my official continue to work on that and I look forward to share proposal with the House and with my hon . friend and her Committee in the autumn . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Economic Secretary for his statement . I agree with he on regulation , where he say that regulator would be require to facilitate growth and competitiveness alongside their other objective . however , as he know , unless the central bank be oblige to do the same , we might end up in the rather odd and undesirable position of regulator and the central bank take contradictory action . I want to ask mainly about pension reform : under the Mansion House compact , potentially 5 % of the DC fund be to go towards unlisted equity . there be huge potential in that for growth , for innovation , for job , for global competitiveness and for scale up to compete , but that come with a commensurate risk , which be presumably up to 5 % of the value of the DC fund , should the value of that unlisted equity be wipe out . while I hope the scheme succeed , what liability would fall on the Pension Protection Fund should it fail ? what liability might there be on the taxpayer ? if the scheme work and the value of the fund increase , what guarantee be there that the pension holder will receive the entire value of that increase and it will not be gobble up by unnecessary and excessive fee ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support for growth and competitiveness . we have talk regularly about the need for regulator to improve their performance and deliver well outcome for those whom they regulate . he talk about the 5 % , and I emphasise that , ultimately , it be a voluntary pact ; it be for the individual trustee to make those decision , and the Government continue to have in place a strong programme of regulation . however , I hope he respect the fact that there be risk in inaction as well — the risk that our pension beneficiary do not receive the pension that they deserve or the sort of performance from their pension that other international long - term saver benefit from . he raise the issue of define contribution and the liability for the taxpayer . of course , that do not attach to define - contribution scheme , which be why it be so important that they continue to benefit from the high - quality regulation . I and my colleague the pension Minister remain very committed to that and will continue to work with TPR and the FCA to ensure that that remain the case . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . like my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , I warmly welcome the work that my hon . friend on the Front Bench have do . the Mansion House compact be a huge step forward , but do my hon . friend the Minister agree that get the Kent investment review reform right , particularly on unbundling , will also help we to have high - quality research , enable well decision and more investment into high - quality firm ? my hon . friend , who know so much about this topic and have engage so lucidly on it , be absolutely right about the importance of investment research . it provide access to market , make our UK stock exchange an attractive international venue , narrow spread and drive fair valuation for investor and company seek investment . this be one example of where we inherit a european fact pattern that be not quite right for the UK . I look forward to pensioner , investor , saver and company benefit from our research review . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . define - benefit pension fund have long be under pressure to invest in Government gilt rather than the productive economy , so I welcome the change of direction that the Minister have announce . he have indicate how much extra pension fund investment will go into high - growth company in future . will he indicate what share of that he expect to go into UK high - growth firm rather than overseas ? he have indicate , I think , a replacement for the current charge cap on pension fund , with a wide value - for - money assessment , but can he indicate when we be likely to see the detail on what exactly he and the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , have in mind for that ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his contribution on how we can deliver the good pension for long - term saver . there be no estimate for the share of the UK . we be mobilise an additional £ 50 billion of asset over time . that be evolution , not revolution . we would expect — and it be the job of this Government — to present that investment capital with a wave of attractive option across some of the fast - grow sector , as the Prime Minister and Chancellor have lay out , and to remove friction and obstacle as people seek to invest in the UK , create a conducive environment for that investment but fall short of mandate it , in the knowledge that the allocation to international investment for some of our actively manage scheme already exceed that of other comparable company . on the charge cap , we be this morning publish a consultation on the new value for money framework . clearly , we want to continue ensure that pensioner benefit from fair charge , but also that that do not come at the expense of the underlying performance that they receive . I welcome this set of measure , particularly the ending of the package retail and insurance - base investment product regime and the introduction of the Mansion House compact , on which some of we have lobby the Government . I will share two key concern with the Minister . on fintech and early - stage business , we have a problem in this country because the pension fund industry have divest itself of UK equity , to the detriment of the London stock exchange and , ultimately , of financial service generally . it trouble I that that 5 % be not focus on early - stage start - up in the UK , unlike many other domestic pension fund , which do support their own . more generally , a big piece of the jigsaw be miss in my view . pension fund have generally divest themselves of UK equity to such a great extent — some estimate suggest a 90 % reduction since 2000 — that we need to see more encouragement by Government to get the pension fund to use their wealth by put it into UK equity for the betterment of the UK economy . after all , they do benefit from tax break . I thank my hon . friend for his , as ever , apposite point . that encouragement be exactly what the proposal be all about : work voluntarily with the sector and encourage it to lean in . I want people to see 5 % as a potential floor , not a ceiling . many will seek to go much far forward . the broad objective of the Government be to provide good access to capital at every stage of a Government ' s life , whether it be our support for the seed enterprise investment scheme , the enterprise investment scheme or the venture capital trust ; the expansion of the pool of individual investor who be able to invest directly in the stock market ; and some of the opportunity that he talk about , all the way through to ensure that our listed and private capital market work extremely well . that be the objective of the reform . I call the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that I be a trustee of the parliamentary contributory pension fund . forgive I if I be a little sceptical about Government involvement in pension fund . we have see how the annual and lifetime allowance , announce at the Dispatch Box by a former Chancellor , have play out . it be also this government who take we through McCloud in the public sector . the Minister say that the average earner who start save at 18 could increase the size of their pension pot by 12 % over their career . can he give the House example of the assumption behind that figure , and will he publish the modelling behind it ? the Government Actuary ' s Department be the source of those figure , which we publish this morning — I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to that fact . clearly , there be a number of assumption within that . I do not think it be right to be sceptical . these be reform that have be form with wide consultation , include from across the House . I hope that we can form a grow consensus so that the industry receive a signal from this place that it be ultimately time to stop talk and to get on with investing . that be the outcome that we seek . I welcome the statement , particularly the aim to unlock asset in the local government pension scheme through an acceleration of pool with the aim of double exist investment in private equity to 10 % , which could unlock £ 25 billion by 2030 . do the Economic Secretary agree that the reform be a welcome step to improve our growth prospect and boost investment ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the local government pension scheme be a huge opportunity for this country . in many case , it be already very progressive . it be invest in local opportunity and allocate its capital to the sort of private growth asset that we wish to seek . with £ 365 billion under management , an increase rate of progress towards asset pooling , which , as the Government have make clear , should attract at least £ 50 billion , will provide the scale to invest well on behalf of beneficiary . that be a great opportunity for we all . the number of company list on the London stock exchange have plummet to such an extent that the market value of Apple be now great than the entire FTSE 100 . recently , Cambridge - base chip giant Arm decide to list in New York rather than in London . do the Minister think that the Mansion House compact will reverse the trend of British - base company decide to list elsewhere ? yes . this be an excellent package , but one way to ensure that investment flow to productive enterprise be to prevent it from be crowd out by grow Government debt , isn ' t it ? our objective be threefold in that respect : to bear down on inflation ; to reduce Government debt , with the benefit that my right hon . friend seek ; and to grow the economy . these be long - term plan and ambitious programme , and ultimately , the acid test will be how we can grow our economy . the Minister say that he want the " good possible outcome " for pension saver . the pension dashboard , which be design to help pensioner understand their pension ' s performance , be promise by Chancellor George Osborne , but it be still delay . when will the pension dashboard be deliver to support UK pensioner ? my hon . friend the Minister for pension be proceed at pace to deliver that important element in people ' s ability to access the most information . it be just one component . we want people to have good pension choice and to understand the way that investment be be make . the hon . Gentleman will understand , because we have engage in the past about pensioner not necessarily have have the good information available to they in a regulated way , that it be well to be right in this case than to be fast . I be delighted to attend the Mansion House dinner last night as the Member of Parliament represent the City of London and to listen to excellent speech by the Lord Mayor and the Chancellor of the Exchequer . do the Minister agree that the Mansion House compact will do much to secure the City of London ' s position as a global powerhouse in the financial service sector and will also create more job across the country ? my hon . friend , who know so much and speak so lucidly for Cities of London and Westminster , be absolutely right . these be a bold and ambitious set of reform . they will not just help community across the whole of the United Kingdom — I never fail to remind the House that financial service touch almost every constituency — but continue to underwrite the strong and leading position of the City of London , which she so ably represent . it be always fascinating to hear minister justify their failure over the last 13 year . the Minister would do well to recognise that business investment be at a record low in this country . one way to address the record low in business investment be to listen to the professional service sector , which say that a mutual recognition agreement with the EU would increase that performance and contribution . why have the Government make no progress on that mutual recognition agreement ? I be enormously proud of the fact that we have recently reach agreement with all the member nation of the European Union on the memorandum of understanding in respect of financial service . that join a number of such agreement , all of which have the objective of seek access to as many of the grow market in the world as possible for our financial and professional service . only last week I meet my opposite number , the german deputy Finance Minister , and next week I will be meet the Luxembourg Finance Minister . by how much will today ' s announcement reduce the burden of regulation on UK business ? I ask that because the Government promise that there would be no net increase in the burden of regulation on business during this Parliament , but so far we be £ 14 . 3 billion in the wrong direction . my hon . friend may wish to ask that question in due course . with respect to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , I can only speak for the financial service sector . today we be publish document to repeal 100 element of retain EU law . that build on reform we already have in train , such as the prospectus directive . I can certainly give he my confidence and assurance that we be significantly lighten the burden of regulation , but more importantly , make it appropriate for the unique fact pattern of the UK as an open , innovative global market . the Minister will be aware that the Bank of England have to intervene in the gilt market after the disastrous mini - budget last September to restore market functioning , when sharp and rapid rise in gilt yield lead to widespread selling of gilt by pension scheme ' liability - drive investment arrangement . we all recognise that we need to do more to ensure that our pension — especially our define - contribution scheme — be well . my question be about the risk . what risk assessment have be make of this propose reform , particularly in term of where the burden of risk fall ? we have publish today a consultation , and I hope the hon . Lady will feel that she can raise point during that . my hon . friend the Minister responsible for pension will always be happy to undertake engagement with the sector . needless to say , we believe that we have the right balance of risk . the hon . Lady talk about volatility in the gilt market . that be one of the reason we be so focused on not make unfunded spending commitment . the last thing that pensioner or the wide economy need be labour ' s £ 28 billion unfunded spending plan . I welcome the announcement of these reform , but will the Chancellor and the Minister look far at two consequential area ? first , to make the most of the newly available capital , this country need to attract the world ' s good innovator , insurgent and entrepreneur . the Labour party have already say that it do not want they here and will change tax policy to make sure they look to other country . this Government need to come forward with measure that say , " we want the good and the bright to come to the UK . " secondly , to make the most of these reform , we need to ensure that our business can work speedily and with clarity . that mean that regulator need to focus on what our company be do with these reform , as well as protect customer and consumer . will my hon . friend look at what further measure we can take on regulatory reform ? the work of regulatory reform to make this country globally competitive and an attractive place to invest be never do , as my hon . friend know . he will also know that we be see right now the fruit of the Prime Minister ' s vision and strategy , with firm such as OpenAI and Andreessen Horowitz — two of the lead technology firm change our world — both choose in recent week the United Kingdom out of the entire rest of the world as the place to do business . far to the question from the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) , what assurance can the Minister give that when the pension dashboard be launch , it will be mandatory for all provider to participate in it and will not be do on a voluntary basis , to avoid it be what one analyst describe as " half - baked " ? the hon . member be quite right : it will be mandatory for all provider . that will be underwrite by legislation . the focus be to ensure that it be a usable , well regulated and well understand user experience for member . over the last decade , thank to automatic pension enrolment , an extra 10 million people have be able to save more for their retirement , but until now , due to investment restriction , those return have be limit . what my constituent want to know be , would the reform announce today have be possible without Brexit , and how much well off will they be when it come to retirement ? I hope that my hon . friend can reassure the constituent he so diligently represent that on average , as support by the Government Actuary ' s Department , if they start their work life now under the new assumption about the compact , they could be up to £ 1 , 000 a year well off in retirement . that be a meaningful difference . at the end of the day , this be about make people ' s money work well for they and hard for they and deliver they well outcome . he be also right to observe that our ambitious programme of regulatory reform , although it will never be divergence for divergence ' s sake , could not have be achieve if it be not for the ability of this place to set the corpus of regulation under which financial service operate . I welcome the Mansion House compact and the focus on auto - enrolment pension deliver a well pension for their scheme member , but if the Minister look at the website of the firm that have sign up to his compact , he will see that they be all still market themselves as be cheap and simple for employer , rather than the good quality and good return for saver . what more can we do to give individual member a choice of which scheme they be auto - enrol in ? will he look at a clearing house scheme , under which it would be individual employee who choose where their pension saving go , not their employer a few year ago base on what be easy and cheap ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to talk about the need for that culture to change , move away from an excess focus on cost to the detriment of performance — that be what these reform will achieve over time . he be also right to talk about give agency to individual long - term saver over time . make sure that we have that usable journey for pensioner that deliver across the whole of their life be something that my colleague , the pension Minister , be passionate about . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have write to the Treasury twice without a substantive reply about Sea Lanes , the first new public lido open in my constituency in 30 year , and the National Open Water Swimming Centre . they be owe a vat rebate of over £ 170 , 000 , which be due back on 19 April . I be sure that Government Front Benchers understand the importance to new business of get speedy rebate . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have no hotline for mp to ring up . if our question be on vat matter , we have to ring up the public line , and every 48 hour , Sea Lanes have to reauthorise my office to speak on its behalf . on 25 June , we be tell that there be nothing delay that payment , yet three week later , no payment have be receive . Madam Deputy Speaker , as there be no hotline and HMRC have not respond to my letter , could you advise I how good to pursue this matter with the Treasury ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . from what he have say , I can understand his concern . miraculously , he have manage to raise his point of order when he have a Treasury Minister right in front of he , and I have a feeling that Ministers may well take back his comment . indicate assent . the Minister be nod in agreement , so I think the hon . Gentleman have succeed in raise his case effectively . we will leave it at that . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I distinctly remember that during last week ' s Second reading of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , when the Communities Secretary be ask in an intervention whether there have be any advice against the Bill from diplomatic post , he reply that he be not aware — that he know of no such advice . it have now become clear that a senior official in the Foreign Secretary ' s own office send a letter to no . 10 express such concern about the consequence of the Bill . I wonder whether , Madam Deputy Speaker , you have have any notice that the Foreign Secretary intend to correct the record , or whether he will rely on the fact that the Foreign Secretary ' s office be not a diplomatic post in any formal sense . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . he do not give I notice of it , so I have not be able to get any other information . there be two part to his point of order : first , that the Foreign Secretary answer by say that he be not aware , and then that there have be no such representation . the hon . Gentleman have raise the issue ; if any correction be necessary , I be sure it will be make , and I be confident that those on the Government Front Bench will pass back his comment . however , it be a little difficult to work out whether the hon . Gentleman be say that there be no awareness , or that there have be no representation . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) hon . friend misspoke ; it be the Communities Secretary . I be sorry — that be probably my fault . at first we have the Communities Secretary , then we have the Foreign Secretary . whoever it be , I be sure they will be on this immediately , unless Mr Blunt want to be more specific . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Communities Secretary give the assurance to the House that he be unaware of any such advice in the context of diplomatic post . it appear that that advice do exist , and that it come from the Foreign Secretary ' s own office . I be sure that between those point of order , we can sort out the various channel that need to be feed back to . the hon . Gentleman have raise the issue , and I be sure it will be take back . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . through you , may I express my thank to Mr Speaker for his support yesterday ? there be a very unpleasant social medium post contain a threat . I can report that the gentleman concern have unequivocally and unreservedly apologise , and have make a significant donation to the Jo Cox Foundation . I thank the hon . gentleman for inform the House of that . I will certainly pass his thank back to Mr Speaker , and I be glad to hear that there have be a satisfactory outcome . Bill Presented Rural Crime ( Strategy ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Foord present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to establish a task force to produce a strategy for tackle rural crime ; to require the Secretary of State to implement the strategy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 348 ) . bullying and respect at Work Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a statutory definition of bully at work ; to make provision relate to bully at work , include to enable claim relate to workplace bully to be consider by an employment tribunal ; to provide for a respect at Work Code to set minimum standard for positive and respectful work environment ; to give power to the Equalities and Human Rights Commission to investigate workplace and organisation where there be evidence of a culture of , or multiple incident of , bully and to take enforcement action ; and for connected purpose . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . we all have power : how we use it matter . we can use it to encourage and elevate other , or we can use it to denigrate and destroy . for those who be harm , there be few protection . we see it in school and online , we see it with eld abuse , and we see it in workplace . my Bill will break the cycle of bully at work . it will call to account those who abuse their power , while protect other and , for the first time , provide a legal definition of bully at work . the TUC report that bullying be the second big workplace issue . some 29 % of worker will experience workplace bully at some point , and one in 10 have experience it in the past six month . academia back those figure up . that lack of access to redress and justice explain why 53 % of those who be bully never report it . what be the point , if it expose you far and there be no legal protection ? my Bill will not just help people at work ; it will help employer . bully cost UK business £ 18 billion a year , and accord to the Health and Safety Executive , over 17 million working day be lose each year due to work - relate negative behaviour such as bullying . sometimes bully be corporate , embed in the culture of an organisation . sometimes it be peer on peer , where worker be leave out , denigrate publicly or privately , and target or ignore . slowly and painfully , the worker die inside . bullying hurt : it destroy confidence , crush mental health and cause physical ill health . for some , the pain be so great that they simply crumble . there be last trauma ; some never recover , and some lose their life . the power of a human to destroy another be very real . as a Parliament , we have fail million of worker by not legislate . like most mp , I have have a constant stream of constituent seek help , but there be no legal definition , no legal protection and no legal route to justice . without protection , many worker will leave their employment . without a route to an employment tribunal , people depend on the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or a claim for constructive unfair dismissal follow resign from work . Most suffer , or leave their place of work . while my Bill seek to promote respect at work and positive behaviour , it recognise that legislation be need to protect worker and to have a chilling effect on negative workplace culture for employee , worker , the bogus self - employ or office holder . as with other reward , the tribunal service would depend on the remedy determine by the Vento tariff , and would therefore access the compensatory award for injury to the applicant . twenty year ago , there be a concerted effort by Government , trade union and employer to address bully at work . they form the Dignity at Work Partnership , undertake important work to understand bullying , its cause , its effect and how to reduce incident . sadly , the impact do not last and its reach be limited . labour ' s late Baroness Gibson seek to legislate . since , barrister and solicitor have be call for a change in the law . trade union want their member protect . ACAS have , within its code of practice , set out a definition . any definition would require a subjective test — what be its impact — fetter by an objective test of the behaviour be offensive , malicious , intimidating or humiliating . as ACAS have more recently determine , this do not have to be a repeat act , but could be . such test provide for a robust threshold for a claim . bullying can be by an individual or group . it can be organisational , as with deliberate procedural delay in grievance management — delay to cause harm . fundamentally , it spring from a power imbalance — positional from a manager , psychological or relational . it can be direct or through a third party , by proxy . it can be with intent or without , although remorse can be the judge of this . often , the perpetrator will reverse the blame and those innocent of bullying be accuse of be a perpetrator . this can be the bad bullying of all — be publicly label by the very people who bully while they play victim themselves . currently , employment tribunal only hear case of constructive unfair dismissal . we know that the time and threshold for such claim be high , the applicant first have to resign , and they would also be require to have two year of employment . civil court may far be use to handle a personal injury claim . while employer have an imply duty to provide a safe work environment , the absence of legislation make this difficult to enforce or address harm . many workplace have policy , but ultimate restitution be yet to sit with the tribunal , since bullying be not a legal concept , while discrimination and harassment rightly be . for those with a protect characteristic , section 26 of the Equality Act 2010 provide a route to seek remedy . for someone who do not qualify under the Equality Act , there be no legal protection . however , with legislation , a dismissal arise from bullying could seek remedy , under the Employment Rights Act 1996 , as an automatically unfair dismissal . the power of that approach be that , once the threshold test have be meet , the burden of proof move to the employer to demonstrate that the reason for the resignation of the employee be or be not due to their failure to protect the individual from the perpetrator . my Bill follow the tradition of harassment , but extend it to those without a protect characteristic . like harassment , it will have a six - month limitation to bring a claim . my Bill seek to extend the ACAS code of practice to promote positive workplace behaviour . clearly , the failure of an employer to instil this could see a compensatory award raise , but , moreover , also see positive change ensue at work . a perpetrator of bully often target more than one individual . my Bill empower employer to challenge and bring about change . fail to would enable the tribunal to compel an employer to abide by the code , secure well workplace safety . should the perpetrator continue to bully , the code assist employer to manage the situation through conduct procedure and , where necessary , escalate a case to gross misconduct . however , it must be recognise that some place of work have an endemic bullying culture . I have therefore set out a role for reporting , investigation and enforcement in line with the management of environment where discrimination occur . in extend the role and power of the Equality and Human Rights Commission to investigate and report , and to issue enforcement notice , workplace culture will change . we need only look at some recent report on the NHS to recognise failure , but we be acutely aware that we need to get our own House in order . indeed , political party would not be exempt from my legislation . this will clean up workplace and clean up politic . the UK be behind the curve . jurisdiction from Canada to Australia , Scandinavia to many across Europe have well establish law in this field . it be my experience that all can be subject to the destructive force of bullying and all must receive protection under the law . in bring forward this legislation , I hope that we can change the culture of work — for worker to no long fear a day in the office , on a ward or even in this Parliament , but instead for they to know that the law be on their side , justice be protect they and they can receive the very help they need . we have an obligation to protect people at work , and my Bill pass its First Reading today be the first step . question put and agree to . order , that Rachael Maskell , Andy McDonald , Dawn Butler , John McDonnell , Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck , Ian Lavery , Wera Hobhouse , Ian Mearns , Bell Ribeiro - Addy , Barry Gardiner , Caroline Lucas and Andrew Jones present the Bill . Rachael Maskell accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 349 ) . Illegal Migration Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Illegal Migration Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 13 March 2023 ( Illegal Migration Bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at 5 . 00pm at today ' s sit . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 1 , 2 , 6 to 9 , 12 , 20 , 22 , 23 , 30 to 67 , 73 , 74 , 90 , 93 , 95 , 102 to 104 , 107 , 3 to 5 , 10 , 11 , 13 to 19 , 21 , 24 to 29 , 68 to 72 , 75 to 89 , 91 , 92 , 94 , 96 to 101 , 105 , 106 and 108 to 114 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) proceeding on the first of any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 5 ) proceeding on any other further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Illegal Migration Bill Consideration of Lords amendment Clause 1 - introduction 1 . 37 pm I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : Lords amendment 2 , 6 to 9 , 12 , 20 and 22 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) to ( o ) in lieu of Lords amendment 2 , 12 , 20 and 22 . lord amendment 23 and 30 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 31 to 36 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 31 , 35 and 36 . lord amendment 37 and 38 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) to ( e ) in lieu of Lords amendment 37 and 38 . lord amendment 39 to 67 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 73 and 74 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 73 and 74 . lord amendment 90 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) to the word so restore to the Bill . lord amendment 93 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 95 , government motion to disagree and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 102 to 104 and 107 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 3 to 5 , 10 , 11 , 13 to 19 , 21 , 24 to 29 , 68 to 72 , 75 to 89 , 91 , 92 , 94 , 96 to 101 , 105 , 106 and 108 to 114 . this Bill be vital to stop the boat and prevent the dangerous , illegal and unnecessary journey across the channel . the Bill as pass by this House make it unambiguously clear to illegal migrant and people smuggler alike that , if they come to this country by unlawful mean , they will not be able to stay . instead , they will be detain and swiftly remove either to their home country or to a safe third country . the Government bring forward a number of amendment in the Lords to enhance the Bill . these be largely of a technical nature , so I will not detain the House by set these out now . instead , I will confine my remark to the non - Government amendment pass by the other place . I be grateful to the House of Lords for undertake its proper role as a revise Chamber . some of the change make by the other place be , however , little short of wreck amendment , and be not one that the Government can support . there be a few honourable exception and I will deal with those first . as the Minister say , most of the amendment we be go to be debate and voting on later be wreck amendment . do he agree that none of these amendment address the fundamental need to address the actual incentive for people to cross the channel ? that be what the Bill do and these amendment take that away . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I would direct member to the speech make in the other place by Lord Clarke . he say , very powerfully , that , as a former Home Secretary and long - stand Member of this House , and as someone who be interested in and knowledgeable about this issue , he sit through many hour of debate and do not hear , from any of the critic of the Bill , a single credible alternative to the Government ' s approach . if hon . member follow that logic , they need to get behind the government and support they in deliver this approach . another point that Lord Clarke make , which I agree with , be that , if we fail to tackle this issue — if we dismiss the concern of member of the public — we will see very serious consequence in the year ahead , with a fragmentation of community cohesion and a weakening of the successful multi - ethnic democracy that all of we , on both side of the House , be proud of and want to see sustain for future generation . the Minister say that the other place put forward wreck amendment , but be it not true that the other place propose amendment that ensure that we honour treaty , respect our judiciary and ensure that the Home Office be act within the law ? I do not agree with that . there be a few important exception , which I will come on to . I hope that , in my remark and in answer any question , I will reassure the hon . Lady that , on the point of substance make by those who want to see the Bill proceed and the issue tackle , the Government be make the right change to the Bill . the Minister say that no one have propose a credible alternative , but four Lords amendment do . lord amendment 102 propose a " duty to establish safe and legal route " . Lords amendment 103 would amend the Crime and Courts Act 2013 to confer on the National Crime Agency specific function to tackle cross - channel organise crime . and under Lords amendment 104 and 107 , the Government would set up a 10 - year strategy on refugee and human trafficking , work with foreign government . do those four amendment not constitute a credible alternative ? as it happen , I will come to each of those point later in my speech , if the hon . and learn Lady do not mind , but in each case , we be already do what she ask we to do . the Bill have a specific provision in respect of safe and legal route and , when we have this debate in this House previously , we agree far to set out the detail of that . as for the National Crime Agency , its officer who work on organise immigration crime — I meet they in recent week in Belgium , France , Italy , Tunisia and Libya — would be very surprised to hear that the agency do not have the authority to act on organise immigration crime because those in some case very brave man and woman be do that work every single day on our behalf already . rise — let I make a small amount of progress and then I will give way to the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) . I turn to the first issue of substance , which be Lords amendment 2 . that would provide that the duty to make arrangement for removal apply to person who enter illegally from the date of commencement of clause 2 , rather than on or after 7 March 2023 , as originally provide for in the Bill . we acknowledge the position advance by some in the other place and in this House about the retrospective effect of the Bill , but these Lords amendment go too far in reset the clock . the close we get to commencement of the Bill , the great the risk that organise criminal and people smuggler will seek to exploit that , and we will see an increase in crossing as the deadline loom , which would only put more people at risk . to guard against that , we have bring forward amendment in lieu to move the application of the duty from 7 March to the date of Royal Assent . the date of 7 March , however , would continue to apply for the purpose of the Secretary of State ' s power to provide accommodation for unaccompanied child and for the purpose of the ban on re - entry , settlement and citizenship . that Government amendment in lieu have a particular advantage with respect to the concern about modern slavery express by my right hon . friend the Members for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , but I will come to that in a moment . can the Minister tell I how many afghan woman have be able to avail themselves of the afghan citizen resettlement scheme phase 3 programme ? that be the Government ' s position on a safe and legal route . as we have understand from various Westminster Hall debate , we be look at a handful in phase 3 . everything else refer to what have happen in 2021 . I also draw his attention to the recent horrific drowning off Greece . this include a number of afghan national and people from Pakistan - administer Kashmir . what really be the point of these ineffective , suppose safe route ? the hon . Lady and I share the same objective : to ensure that the scheme that the Government have establish be operationalise as quickly as possible , so that people who be eligible — perhaps include the woman she be in contact with — can come to the United Kingdom , settle here and find sanctuary . it be incredibly important that the UK be a beacon in the world for resettlement scheme . we have already support more than 20 , 000 people under the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the ACRS to come to the United Kingdom . I appreciate her point that the number in recent month have be low than she or we would like . one reason be that there be so little capacity in the UK today to properly house individual , and one explanation for that be that the sheer number of individual enter the country illegally on small boat have place an intolerable pressure on our social housing and the contingency accommodation that we have available . if we be to bring further individual to the UK — as we want to do and be continue to do — they risk be house in hotel , which be an unacceptable way to house vulnerable people and , in particular , family . the Minister be be generous with his time . we in the all - party parliamentary group on afghan woman and girl have hundred of civilian who would like a " home for Afghans " scheme . these people be wait and have already volunteer . this scheme be ready and it be equivalent to the Homes for Ukraine scheme , so I urge the Government to take we up on it and make sure that the suppose safe route be actual safe route . I strongly endorse the hon . Lady ' s comment . the Homes for Ukraine scheme have be superb and we should all be proud of it — I take part in it at one point . if it be possible to create a comparable scheme for Afghans , we should consider that . I know that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , who have responsibility for that issue , be consider it . on the broad point about resettlement , the UK have a strong record in this regard . of course , we would all like to go far , but since 2015 we have welcome 550 , 000 people to this country on humanitarian ground , mostly on resettlement scheme . we be one of the world ' s lead country for such scheme . while we be on the question of date , do the Minister have any idea when the Supreme Court may consider and conclude its judgment ? that be relevant not only to the question of the Bill ' s progress , but to the question of the Parliament Act , in case that be to be need . it be for the Court to determine , in the first instance , whether it intend to take up the appeal and at what time it will be hear . I can only point my hon . friend to the final paragraph in the summary judgment from the Court of Appeal , which express the view of the three judge that this be a matter of great urgency and that it need to be handle expeditiously . I hope that the Supreme Court , if it choose to hear our appeal , do so swiftly , but that be a matter for the Supreme Court . will the Minister give way ? I will , and then I should make some progress . the Minister will know that , from his perspective , I have a difficult approach to the Bill on Second Reading . when he embark on address Lords amendment 2 , he say he would now address the first Lords amendment of substance , yet Lords amendment 1 deal with our international obligation . we have the curious start to this Bill that it could not have a full declaration on the front of it about compatibility with some of those international obligation . perhaps it be just a turn of phrase , but it would be incredibly helpful if the Minister not only address Lords amendment 1 and the Government ' s approach to international legal obligation but outline exactly what be contain within Lords amendment 1 that the Government take issue with . I will come back to that issue later in my remark , but let I be clear , if further reassurance be require , that the Government take our international law obligation extremely seriously . we believe that all the matter outline in the Bill be within our international legal obligation , and should the Bill or any aspect of it be legally challenge , we will contest that vigorously to defend the position we have set out . I point the hon . gentleman to one important element of the recent judgment in the Court of Appeal , which be on this question : if a state such as the United Kingdom use another state and enter into a partnership , such as we have with Rwanda , for the purpose of asylum , would that be compatible with the refugee convention ? I point out that all three judge agree that that be compatible with the refugee convention . on arguably the central international law issue at stake , the Court of Appeal be clear that the Government ' s approach be compatible with international law . the Minister have make that commitment about the refugee convention , but Lords amendment 1 say that the Bill should be read so as not to conflict with the european convention on human right , the refugee convention and the convention on statelessness , the right of the child and anti - trafficking . why be the Government so oppose to that clarification and that clear statement on the face of the Bill , if we be the beacon and an adherent to international obligation and law ? it be not normal practice to state that on the face of the Bill . it go without say that the Government obey our international obligation , as we do with all piece of legislation . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , because I appreciate that this be a relatively short debate . if the hon . and learn Lady do not mind , there be other question I need to address . Detention have attract a great deal of interest from member from all part of the House , as indeed it do in the other place . detention be a necessary part of the scheme provide for in the Bill . the duty on the Home Secretary to make arrangement for removal be accompany by strong detention power . we know from experience that once a person be release from detention , the prospect of be able to effect removal be significantly reduce , because they typically abscond . that be why the Bill restrict , but do not exclude , judicial challenge within the first 28 day of detention . that be so that illegal migrant can be process and remove , rather than simply abscond on arrival . the power cover family group the same as other , so as to not provide a perverse incentive for people smuggler and migrant to co - opt unaccompanied child into bogus family group to avoid detention , put child at risk in the process . lord amendment 31 and 35 to 38 seek to restore the exist 24 - hour limit on the detention of unaccompanied child and the 72 - hour limit on the detention of pregnant woman . I recognise that there be particular sensitivity around the detention of those cohort , and we debate those at some length in early proceeding in this House . recognise the health concern around the detention of pregnant woman and the particular vulnerability of unaccompanied child , we have bring forward amendment in lieu that maintain the exist 72 - hour limit , extendable up to a week with ministerial authorisation , on the detention of pregnant woman , and that enable the first - tier tribunal to consider grant immigration bail after eight day for unaccompanied child , rather than the 28 day provide for in the Bill . a number of member of this House speak out on the issue of pregnant woman , but I pay particular tribute to my noble Friend Baroness Sugg for campaign in the other place . my right hon . friend know at first hand the impact this issue have on Dover and Kent — on our school and other important local service . give the propose continuation of special measure for unaccompanied young people and now pregnant woman , will he confirm that he will meet I and Kent colleague to discuss the impact of these proposal , particularly bear in mind the poor state of our local maternity service and the incredible pressure already be place on our community ? I would be pleased to meet my hon . friend , as I have in the past . she know that I have meet local authority leader in Kent on a number of occasion . I want to do everything I can to support they . historically , they have bear a high burden as a result of their location adjacent to the point of entry , and that have place some public service in Kent under a great deal of pressure . in the past 12 month , we have create the national scheme to ensure that unaccompanied child be move across the country and that all local authority play an equitable part in support they . we have also provide substantial financial incentive to local authority to help they play their fair part . I appreciate that nothing be ever as simple as that . develop further capacity with local authority child ' s home or foster carer take time , but I hope that the measure we have put in place will make a noticeable difference . prior to the recent seasonal increase in individual cross the channel , we have successfully manage to clear all the UASC — unaccompanied asylum - seek child — hotel that the Home Office have utilise , and I hope we can keep reliance upon they to an absolute minimum this summer and autumn . in the case of unaccompanied child , the change I have just describe will apply where an unaccompanied child be detain for the purpose of removal , and it align with the eight - day period for make a suspensive claim . that approach will ensure that we can continue to detain a person whom we suspect to be an adult , but who claim to be a child , pende the outcome of an age assessment . it be important for the Chamber to note that this be not really a concession ; it be not even a time limit on the detention of child . it be the ability to apply for bail , as I understand it , after eight day . the person have to be aware of their right and have access to the ability to challenge detention . it also apply only to a small cohort of child ; the vast majority of child detain under the Bill will not have access to this process at all . respectfully , the hon . Gentleman have misunderstood what we be propose . if a child who be a genuine child and not subject to age assessment arrive unaccompanie in the United Kingdom , they will be swiftly process . they will then be send out into the local authority care system as quickly as possible , until they turn 18 . we will seek to remove unaccompanied child in two circumstance , as I set out when we last debate this in the House . the first be where we , the Home Office , manage to reunite they with parent in other country , as we do in a small number of case today . the second be where we , the Home Office , manage to return they to their home country , which be a safe country , and in most case into the care of social service immediately upon arrival . again , that happen already in a small number of case . there be no intention to change present practice . we be take the power to detain , if require , a young person in that situation for up to eight day , house in age - appropriate accommodation to enable we to make that removal effective . rise — rise — if I may , I will give way in the first instance to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford . I be listen closely to what my right hon . friend be say , and I be think in particular about arrival as well as leaver . can he confirm that child who be clearly child will be place in child - appropriate accommodation ? will all those who may or may not be child have appropriate safeguarding ? if that be the case , when will we see that in writing ? I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s interest in the Bill . she and I come at this with exactly the same concern : to protect unaccompanied child . any genuine child who come into the United Kingdom will be swiftly take into the local authority care system , which she be familiar with thank to her former work as child ' s Minister . to the extent that that child be in the detain estate , they will be house only in age - appropriate accommodation . rise — I will set out in a moment how that age - appropriate accommodation be determine in law today . I give way to my right hon . friend one more time . to dig deeply into that , the Minister have suggest that a child may be detain on arrival , which be not currently the case , but that if that happen , that would be in child - appropriate accommodation . that be correct . the law today be that a child can be detain for eight day for the purpose of examination — that be not routinely do by the Home Office . today , a child be detain for 24 hour or less and , whether for 24 hour or , if the Home Office choose to make use of the power , for eight day , they be detain only in age - appropriate accommodation . it would be unlawful to house an under - 18 in accommodation that do not meet the standard set out in law . I will come on in a moment to describe that standard . I be immensely grateful to my right hon . friend for all the work he have do on the Bill and these amendment . he will understand that the matter he be discuss bring age verification into sharp focus . as he know , I table an amendment on that , which the Government ultimately re - present as an amendment of their own . will he confirm that age verification measure will be obligatory and comprehensive so that we do not any long get the nonsense of people pretend to be child in order to game the system ? my right hon . friend be right . we take age assessment extremely seriously . as he know , there be some young adult and individual who abuse the system . indeed , some be not so young — as I understand it , the old individual we have encounter who pose as a child be subsequently find to be 41 year of age . that be wrong as a matter of principle , and it be also a serious safeguarding risk to genuine child and all the caring people who be involve in support they , whether they be foster carer , teacher or member of the general public . we therefore have to take the issue seriously . that be why the Bill retain the power to detain an individual who be subject to age assessment for up to 28 day . during that period , the Home Office or local authority would conduct age assessment . today , that be do through the Merton system , which be prove to take long than we would like , but which we want to be conduct within 28 day . we be now take advantage of the power take through the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 to begin to roll out scientific form of age assessment . that will happen over the course of this year . initially , it will happen concurrently with the Merton assessment . we want to ensure that that system be demonstrate to be robust and as swift as possible . I hope that hon . member on both side of the House will unite in common agreement that it be important that we weed out case of abuse , because they pose such a risk . I be afraid that we have see some very tragic instance such as the murder that occur in Bournemouth at the behest of somebody who have pose as a child . the state have to do everything in its power to prevent that from happen again . will the Minister give way ? if I may make some more progress , I will happily come to the hon . Gentleman later . I want to conclude the point that I be make to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on the detention period and standard of accommodation , because that be important . I assure she , and indeed my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who have also take an interest in the issue , that we will seek to detain unaccompanied child for the short possible period . where there be no dispute that someone be under 18 , they will be transfer to the local authority accommodation estate as quickly as possible . where there be doubt about whether a person be indeed under 18 as they claim to be , they will be treat as a child while an age assessment be undertake . such a person will be detain in age - appropriate accommodation , as the law already provide . that be set out in the Detention Centre Rules 2001 make under section 153 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 . rule 11 provide that : " detain person age under 18 and family will be provide with accommodation suitable to their need . " if no such accommodation be available , they will not be detain and instead will be transfer to a local authority as soon as possible . I hope that provide my right hon . friend with the assurance she seek . the Minister quote the Detention Centre Rules 2001 , which be of course 22 year old . rule 11 say : " detain person age under 18 and family will be provide with accommodation suitable to their need . " although there be a checklist of about 65 thing , virtually all of they be about fabric , freedom to practise religion and access to personal hygiene . which of the rule contain support service that be relevant and age - appropriate to child ? the rule be relate to 2001 , as my hon . Friend say , but as I understand it they have be update since then . they have also be test on a number of occasion in the court , and the Home Office take seriously its responsibility to live up to they . it would be unlawful if we be to accommodate an under - 18 inappropriately . if I may , I will read out the other limb of rule 11 , entitle " family and minor " . they be , first : " detained family member shall be entitle to enjoy family life at the detention centre save to the extent necessary in the interest of security and safety . secondly : " detain person age under 18 and family will be provide with accommodation suitable to their need . " thirdly : " everything reasonably necessary for detain person ' protection , safety and well - being and the maintenance and care of infant and child shall be provide . " that , I think , be a comprehensive set of principle . it be one that have stand the test of time over the last 22 year . if it need to be strengthen , of course we will do so , but I hope that my hon . friend will take my strong assurance from the Dispatch Box that that be the standard of accommodation in which we intend to house anyone who be a minor . if that accommodation be not available , we would not house those individual in detain accommodation at all . will the Minister give way again ? I will give way one last time . the Minister be be generous . I will elaborate on this point if I be lucky enough to catch your eye , Mr Deputy Speaker . where in those 65 rule be relevant child - appropriate support service such as social worker , child psychologist and other that would be necessary mention ? nothing that he have describe guarantee that child will be in age - appropriate accommodation that have age - appropriate care . that be the point . I be happy to write to my hon . friend detail all the support that would be available . the point that I be make be that this be the exist law , and it have exist for more than 20 year . nothing in the Bill change that framework . the Home Office will rely on the exist framework that have be in place throughout the year , include when he be the child ' s Minister , and it be consider satisfactory throughout that period . I congratulate the Minister on everything he be do on this issue , especially in relation to unaccompanied minor . be he convince that everything he be do will not create a perverse incentive for evil people smuggler to push unaccompanied minor on to boat to cross the english channel ? of course , once they be here , they can bring over their family and so on . be he convince that we will do everything we can to stop that perverse incentive ? the change that we be propose in the Government amendment in lieu strike the right balance , whereby we preserve the intention of the scheme that lie at the heart of the Bill but provide some further protection for minor . my hon . friend be right to make the broad point that more substantial change to the Bill , such as those envisage by some member of the other place , would undermine its very purpose . in consider each and every one of the Lords amendment , we must ensure that we do not drive a coach and horse through the core deterrent effect that we be try to achieve . why do we want that deterrent effect ? because we do not want anyone , whether an adult or a child , cross the channel in small boat , place themselves in danger and be under the support and control of people smuggler and human trafficker . we must keep in mind the original purpose of the Bill , and ensure that we do not do anything to undermine that . on age - appropriate accommodation and family life , could the Minister explain why he feel that the mural on the wall at the Kent intake unit damage the deterrent effect of which he have just speak ? in that context , if parent be to continue to have family life with their child for the time that they be detain , will there be any chance of they have access to picture book to enable they to read to their child ? I do not know whether the right hon . Member have be to any of the facility , but we provide very high - quality facility for family and child upon immediate arrival in the UK . I have make it a particular focus to ensure that we support those individual appropriately , ensure that condition in those place be decent and compassionate at all time . the cohort of unaccompanied child who pass through the location that he describe last year be largely teenager . we do not feel that the site be age - appropriate , but it contain a range of support for child and infant , include all the thing that he have describe . nothing about the decoration of site change the fundamental : if someone come to the United Kingdom , we will treat they with decency and compassion at all time . I want the Minister to be explicit about the type of detention centre that we be talk about . for example , will child , whether unaccompanied or with their parent , be detain in detention centre such as Harmondsworth and Colnbrook ? we agree on a cross - party basis that they should never again be detain in those centre . the right hon . Gentleman be particularly knowledgeable on this issue , because he represent immigration removal centre . it be not the Government ' s intention that family or minor will be house in those setting . minor and family will be house in age - appropriate accommodation , which be entirely separate and different in nature from the immigration removal centre that he represent . there be facility such as those today , though not a large number of they . as part of the operationalisation of the Bill , we will need to invest in further facility and ensure that they meet the standard set out in the detention rule as I have just describe . I hope that give he some reassurance . rise — I will give way , but then I really must make progress , or else other member will not have an opportunity to speak . I thank my right hon . friend . there be a huge amount of concern about how the Bill will be implement . we think that hotel would be only temporary , yet they seem to have carry on . the Minister have say that when a child come in , they will be move into local authority care as soon as possible . under the Bill , what be the maximum amount of time that a child could wait before they be in that local authority care ? the position today be that a child arrive in the United Kingdom and be immediately process in an age - appropriate setting . we then seek to place they with local authority . only if local authority care be not immediately available do we deploy the Home Office uasc hotel . there have be incidence , such as last year , when young people be wait in those hotel for a period of day . that be not our intention . the only limit factor be the availability of local authority care to support they . if more local authority be able to come forward — as I say , that be not simple because they have their own capacity constraint — we would not use those hotel at all . it be not our intention to detain minor for a long period for examination . we want they to flow straight out into local authority care , as be the right thing to do . the Minister be be press on the nature of accommodation or detention that child and young people will be hold in . the spirit behind the Minister ' s intention matter . therefore , will he tell we if be it true that he give order to the asylum reception centre to paint over child ' s cartoon ? if so , why ? nobody believe that Mickey Mouse cartoon encourage or deter boat from arrive ; they simply think that the Minister be not show common decency towards vulnerable child . I have be clear in answer to the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) that we provide very high quality care at all the centre in which we support unaccompanied child . we do not think that the set - up in that particular unit be age - appropriate , because the majority of the individual who pass through it unaccompanie last year be teenager . that do not change the fundamental that we support with decency and compassion anyone who come to this country . the right hon . Lady be miss the point : this Bill seek to reduce the number of unaccompanied minor come to the United Kingdom , precisely because we want to protect they and ensure that they be not victim of people smuggler and human trafficker . I take at face value her support for those individual , but if she want to reduce that trade , she would support the Bill or come forward with a credible alternative . she have not do so . her compassion be , to a degree , performative , because she do not come forward with alternative that would genuinely support individual . let I move on to modern slavery . the provision in the Bill relate to that have be of particular concern to my right hon . friend the Members for Maidenhead and for Chingford and Woodford Green . I welcome the opportunity in recent day to discuss with they the Lords amendment on this issue . it remain our view that there be clear opportunity to misuse modern slavery protection , and it be therefore essential that we take step in the Bill to prevent misuse . the national referral mechanism rate for people arrive in the UK on small boat and be detain for return have rise from 6 % for detention end in 2019 to 73 % in 2021 . the referral rate have since fall slightly to 65 % for detention end between January and September . the 33 % increase in NRM referral from 2021 to 2022 have put the NRM under serious strain , which be only get bad as the trend increase in one direction . there be significant and increase pressure on public service , which be why we want to take action . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the discussion we have have recently . he know that I have a problem with the statistic : he have , yet again , quote the statistic that the Minister in the other place quote as well , which imply that the percentage of people come on small boat and claim modern slavery have rise from 6 % to 73 % . it do not . he be talk about people who be subsequently detain for removal . will he now confirm that the average percentage of people come on small boat and claim modern slavery have not change over the last three year , and be around 7 % ? I think that my right hon . friend and I agree that the point at which individual misuse the NRM be the point at which the state try to remove they from the country . our concern be that there be a significant increase in the number of people misuse the NRM — and the good work that my right hon . friend have do on this issue — to bring about a spurious , frivolous , last - minute way of frustrate their removal from the country . so the statistic I refer to be the most relevant statistic , because that be the point at which individual be in the detain estate for the purpose of removal . their removal from the United Kingdom be imminent and we be see a very high proportion of they use the NRM to try to delay that removal . Delay , as she know from her great experience , be particularly relevant , because once someone have delay their removal , they be liable to be bail and to go back out into the community . some will be very difficult to bring back into the detain estate , or may abscond and never be see again . even under the current system , that make it extremely difficult to remove people . under the scheme envisage by the Bill , we will seek to remove many of those people to a safe country such as Rwanda , while today we predominantly remove people back home to their own country , such as Albania and Romania , so the incentive to misuse the NRM will be significantly high . it be reasonable to assume that a very large number of individual will make use of that as a route to frustrate the scheme . as I say early , that risk drive a coach and horse through the purpose of the Bill , which be a swift and speedy form of removal to act as a deterrent to prevent people make the crossing in the first place . there be two element here . first , the whole system can be massively speed up , which be a fact of the NRM , straightaway . that be an obligation I be mean to have be give in the previous Bill , but it be never bring into the guidance . but the main point here be that nothing that happen outside the UK can be evidence on this particular point . we be talk about the Minister ' s fear that people be depart to within the UK and then subsequently make a claim . the real problem with the Bill right now — he know I have concern about this — be that much of the prosecution process against the trafficker can take place only because of the evidence give by those who have be traffic . on Report , the presumption in the Bill suddenly change dramatically — it be do without any notice . there be now a presumption that they do not need to be here at all , other than if there be some evidence that somehow they do , whereas before it be that in order to get that evidence , they do need to be here . why be we knock out the amendment , rather than amend it and specify which category be exempt ? he run the risk of people not give evidence and not co - operate with the police , and we not get prosecution . if they be go to be clear out of the UK while give evidence — this be the point — the reality be that they will stop do so , because they will be in danger of be pick up by the trafficker again outside the UK . will he therefore rethink this and put something on the face of the Bill to define those who be exempt ? first , I be grateful to my right hon . friend and to my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead for their advice and wise counsel . we have seek to make change and to listen to their point of view . that be why we bring forward two significant change . one , as I have outline , with respect to retrospection , mean that the cohort of individual who enter the United Kingdom from 7 March to Royal Assent who have not be in the detain estate and be then , if you like , in the community at large — in many case they be live in support accommodation and in some case be liable to exploitation by human trafficker and other criminal — will now not be include in the full extent of the Bill ' s provision and so can be support in the way that my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodgreen wish . that have significantly reduce the pool of individual he have concern about . we be also — I will come on to this in a moment — commit to bring forward statutory guidance , which I hope will provide further reassurance on the question of how law enforcement authority would interact with victim of modern slavery to ensure that they can be appropriately support , and have the time they need to recover and bring forward their claim so that we can all achieve our share objective , which be the prosecution of human trafficker . I recognise that the Minister have move in some measure on these issue and I be grateful for that , but may I return to the point about the statutory guidance ? surely , give that we all accept that we will only deal with the organise criminal who run modern slavery with the co - operation of their victim , we can not proceed with the clause as it currently stand without know what the statutory guidance will be ? it be well know that this be go to be an issue , so I be surprised , frankly , that the draft statutory guidance have not be available to we today . that might well have reassure we sufficiently to support the Minister in his contention . as it be , that be still leave hang in the air . when will we see that statutory guidance ? let I answer my hon . friend ' s question by set out what will be contain in the statutory guidance . the operation of the exception for potential victim of modern slavery to remain in the United Kingdom for the purpose of co - operate with law enforcement agency in connection with the investigation of a traffic offence will be subject to statutory guidance . the guidance will provide that an individual who have arrive in the UK illegally and have a positive reasonable ground decision base on an incident that have take place in the UK , will be afford 30 day from that positive decision to confirm that they will co - operate with an investigation relate to their exploitation . they will not be remove within that period , which accord they with protection that be equivalent to those set out in the european convention on action against trafficking in human being . should they continue to co - operate with such an investigation , they will continue to be entitle to the support and protection of the NRM . should further time be require in addition to the 30 day , that period be extendable so that the police and the victim have the time necessary to ensure that trafficker be bring to justice . I hope that that answer his question . I appreciate his desire to see the letter of the statutory guidance , and I will take that away , but that be the essence of it — the position that mirror the ECAT provision . when will that come into force ? surely , we have to have that in force before the provision in the Bill come into force . can he give we that assurance and confirmation ? it be our intention that the statutory guidance will be provide and in place for the commencement of the Bill . I hope that that also answer the question of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green about the fact that he feel that previous assurance in prior legislation be not fully deliver . I welcome some of the move the Government have make and I support the principle of what the Bill be try to do . however , this be a really significant problem of the Government cut off their nose to spite their face . the positive we have be that when victim give evidence and a prosecution take place , it cut down the likelihood that trafficker will be allow to traffic boat across . when that be turn around , it contradict the purpose of the Bill . the point I make to the Minister early be that the sudden change to the presumption power of the Secretary of State be really where the problem arise . surely the way to deal with that be not through the guidance mechanism , but to ensure , on the face of the Bill , that that presumption be restrict , and clearly restrict . he talk about the intention of the guidance . I be give that assurance on the other Bill in December . no guidance emerge subsequently so he will forgive I , have sit in Government myself , if I do not always take the word of the Government absolutely as a categorical assurance . the only way we can get this be by do something on the face of the Bill . the amendment , as amend , would really help enormously to reassure people and achieve the Government ' s objective , which be more prosecution and few boat . I understand my right hon . friend ' s position , but I hope he will accept that we intend to bring forward the statutory guidance and that it will set out the point I have just describe . they do accord with ECAT . I appreciate that there be those who would like a long period than 30 day , but that seem a reasonable place to settle , give that that be what the framer of ECAT themselves choose as the period for recovery and for bring forward claim . I be just a little confused and I hope my right hon . friend can help I . he say that the Government want to bring forward the guidance , yet they oppose Lords amendment 57 . lord amendment 57 , as I read it , would confer a power on the Secretary of State " by regulation to make provision about the circumstance in which it be necessary for a person present in the UK to provide cooperation of the kind mention " early in the clause . that be precisely the guidance he be now say he will bring in , so why be he oppose Lords amendment 57 ? we do not need that power , so the amendment be superfluous ; we already have the power to bring forward statutory guidance . it be our intention to do that . the guidance be be draft , and it will set out what I have detail . I be conscious that I need to draw my remark to a close , so that other can speak . on the question of legal proceeding , Lords amendment 1 , 7 , 90 and 93 be , in the Government ' s view , wreck amendment , pure and simple . for the Bill to succeed , we have to break the cycle of late , repeat , spurious legal challenge , but the amendment would perpetuate those . lord amendment 1 in particular remove the clear purpose of the Bill as set out in clause 1 , which be to prevent and deter illegal migration . the amendment take a wreck ball to our well establish constitutional arrangement whereby we treat international law as be separate from domestic law . the amendment would incorporate the refugee convention , the UN convention on the right of the child , and other convention into domestic law by the back door . it would tie up the Bill in legal knot , and result in every removal be subject to endless litigation in the court . will the Minister give way ? I will not , if the right hon . Gentleman will forgive I . I feel that I have to make progress now . lord amendment 1 , 7 , 90 and 93 be all the more unnecessary as the Bill already afford adequate protection against removal to a country that be unsafe for a particular person . that bring I to Lords amendment 23 , about the removal of LGBT people to certain country . let I say unambiguously that we treat the safety of LGBT people with the utmost seriousness , and do not want to do anything that would in any way compromise their safety and security . I regret to say that Lords amendment 23 , though clearly well intentione , misunderstand the approach take in the Bill . with the exception of EU and european economic area national and those of Switzerland and Albania , people will not be return to their home country if they make a protection claim . if a person be issue with a third - country removal notice , they can challenge their removal to the specified country on the basis that they would face a real risk of serious and irreversible harm there , include persecution . if a serious harm suspensive claim be refuse , the person have an avenue of appeal to the upper tribunal . the amendment be well mean , but the concern that underpin it be unfounded . we take pride in the UK ' s support for LGBT community globally , and our commitment to this cause remain unwavering . Rwanda have no law prohibit discrimination against same - sex attract people , and people whose gender identity be different from their sex at birth . can the Minister not understand why an LGBT person might rather come to the UK for asylum , where we have such anti - discrimination law , than be send somewhere like Rwanda , which do not ? I understand the hon . and learn Lady ' s point . I say two thing in response . first , the premise of asylum claim be handle in safe third country be that those country must be safe . through our partnership with the Government of Rwanda , we have do work to ensure that appropriate safeguard be put in place . that have be test by the court , and remain an ongoing matter for the court . secondly , we place a safeguard in the scheme : a person can claim that their removal to that country would put they at real risk of serious and irreversible harm , which include persecution . I completely understand why the hon . and learn Lady say what she do , and the legitimate concern that she voice , but I do not think that the instance that she raise be found in reality . if it be , we would take that very seriously indeed , because the government do not want to do anything to compromise the safety and security of LGBT people . in response to Lords amendment 73 and 74 about the power to amend the meaning of " serious and irreversible harm " , we have seek to provide further assurance by bring forward an amendment in lieu to ensure that the power can not be use to remove the provision in clause 38 ( 4 ) that set out what constitute serious and irreversible harm . lord amendment 8 and 9 undermine a key plank of the Bill , which be the provision under which asylum and relevant human right claim can be declare inadmissible . Lords amendment 8 would incentivise people smuggler to prioritise unaccompanied child , which would put more young life at risk and split more family . amendment 9 would simply afford illegal entrant yet another opportunity of play the system and drag thing out as long as possible , in the hope that they would become eligible for asylum . lord amendment 50 seek to limit the Secretary of State ' s power to transfer a child out of local authority accommodation and into accommodation provide or arrange by the Secretary of State , by provide that the Secretary of State may do so only where that be necessary to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child . again , the amendment be unnecessary and duplicate exist law . under section 55 of the Borders , Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 , the Home Secretary be already require to have regard to the need to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child when make a decision to exercise the " vice versa " power . move on to safe and legal route , Lords amendment 102 relate to clause 59 , which require the Home Secretary , within six month of Royal Assent , to prepare and publish a report on the safe and legal route by which person may enter the UK , include any propose additional safe and legal route . lord amendment 102 would in effect mandate that such additional safe and legal route be bring into be within two month of the publication of the clause 59 report . again , the amendment be unnecessary . as I set out on Report in April , we will implement any propose new route as soon as practicable , and in any event by the end of 2024 . I have listen very carefully to everything that the Minister have say on this subject , and I know that he be sincere in his intention . we agree on the need for a quota when it come to safe and legal route , but will he accept that 18 month hence be an inordinately long time , bear in mind that the Bill will have come into force ? while we might not be able to have complete synchronicity of new route with the come into force of this important Bill , can we at least have a much great sense of urgency , and bring forward proposal for safe and legal route much soon than the end of next year ? my right hon . and learn Friend and I share a concern on this issue . we want to bring forward any new route as soon as be practical ; he have my assurance , and that of the Government , that we will move as quickly as we can . I do not think it be practicable for new route to be bring into be within two month of the publication of the report provide for in clause 59 . it inevitably take time to work with partner such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on develop a credible scheme , and to implement it . it be important that we give the Home Office the necessary time . however , I have be very clear that we will move as quickly as possible . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) say that we have have 13 year ; more humanitarian visa be issue last year by this Conservative Government than probably any government since the second world war . since 2015 , under a majority Conservative Government , 550 , 000 people have enter the UK on humanitarian ground . that compare extremely favourably with the record of the Government of which she be a member . will the Minister give way ? I will ; then I will need to bring my remark to a close . the Government have say that they be commit to bring forward safe , legal route , but that they will not do that until they have stop the boat . do the Minister not recognise that one thing that the Government could do that would help stop the boat be bring forward safe , legal route ? no , I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman . I think there be a role for safe , legal route , and I want the UK to be respect internationally for the way in which we support those seek sanctuary . that be what we have ensure in recent year by create world - lead scheme , such as those for Ukraine , Syria and Hong Kong , and indeed there be also the global scheme , which be operate by the UNHCR . I do not accept the argument that I think he be advance , which be that if we produce a large safe and legal route to the United Kingdom , it will lead to a reduction in the number of individual cross illegally in small boat . the individual we would likely bring to the United Kingdom under a safe and legal route be quite different , in the main , from those come across in small boat . Most of our small boat arrival be young man in their 20 and 30 who be already in a place of safety — France — with a fully function asylum system . the kind of scheme the Government envisage for safe and legal route be one where we take family and vulnerable people directly from conflict zone or refugee camp elsewhere in the world . that be a very different system from offer a safe and legal route to predominantly young man in a place of safety to come to the United Kingdom . that do not denude the value of have safe and legal route , but the purpose be different . Lords amendment 103 relate to the function of the National Crime Agency , and I be afraid that it just amount to legislative grandstanding . the NCA ' s statutory function already cover tackle organise immigration crime . as such , the amendment simply risk undermine the operational independence of the director general by tie his hand as to how to organise the NCA to well deliver its objective . as I say in answer to an early question , our colleague at the NCA who work every day on organise immigration crime would be very surprised to hear the contention that they be not focus on this work , because they certainly be . finally , Lords amendment 104 , which be table by the Archbishop of Canterbury , be well - mean but unnecessary . it be a distraction from the immediate priority of stop the boat and tackle the threat to life arise from dangerous , illegal and unnecessary channel crossing . that be the aim of the Bill , and the Lords amendment do not reflect the action that we have already take through cross - government initiative to tackle the refugee crisis and through the ongoing work to deliver our strategic approach to tackle human trafficking . moreover , it do not recognise how this country have respond to the result of crisis , offer sanctuary to over 550 , 000 people through safe and legal route since 2015 . by get a grip on illegal migration , we aim to reduce the pressure that it place on our public service and on community cohesion and to increase the capacity to support those who seek sanctuary here in the UK . the stop - the - boat Bill be design to ensure that the UK can be an even great force for good in the world by use our finite resource on those who truly need it . in conclusion , it be vital that this Bill reach the statute book quickly and in a form that will stop the boat . it be riddle with exception and get - out clause place in it by the other place . if they remain , it will simply not work . we have to send a clear message back to the other place that it be now their turn to think again and to respect the will of the elect House . the public expect we to tackle this issue , to secure our border and to stop the boat . rise — Order . I be look to see whether people be stand who do not put in to speak , and there be a couple at least . thank you very much . you can resume your seat . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Act 2023 National Security Act 2023 . Illegal Migration Bill Debate resume . here we go again : another day , another Bill design to chase headline and manufacture controversy , rather than tackle the asylum crisis that have be cause by the incompetence and indifference of the last 13 year . that say , a casual observer of the Prime Minister ' s recent trip to Dover could be forgive for think that it be all sorted — job do . there he be sport his super - sized new boot and boast about the slight decrease in crossing , while apparently fail to realise that strong wind in the channel be the actual cause of his somewhat premature celebration . since he dance his victory jig in Dover , we have see channel crossing skyrocket , with the busy June yet for the criminal people smuggle trade , with 3 , 824 asylum seeker make the dangerous journey last month . call I old - fashioned , but an asylum strategy that be base on the weather be probably not a sustainable strategy . then we have the Home Secretary . she jet off to Rwanda on a taxpayer - fund vanity photoshoot to champion the new housing be build for the asylum seeker she dream of one day fly over there . but again , all be not as it seem : the housing estate she be showcase be largely due to be use to house rwandan national . last week , the Court of Appeal remind she that , even if her plan do go ahead , the rwandan authority can process only around 100 asylum claim per year — less than 0 . 3 % of last year ' s small boat crosser . I be not sure what the Home Secretary plan to do with the other 99 . 7 % of asylum seeker or , indeed , why she think a 0 . 3 % chance of removal to Rwanda be likely to put off a single asylum seeker consider pay money to a people smuggler . for a deterrent to be effective , it must be credible , and a 0 . 3 % risk of deportation to Rwanda be not go to deter . I know that the hon . Gentleman take these matter very seriously and he will remember that I be very complimentary about he in various way in a debate in Westminster Hall . however , he must recognise that the deterrent effect of be process offshore , which the Australians experience during their Operation Sovereign Borders , would mean few people come here . as he describe , the people trafficker ' branding be that , if someone get to Britain , they will never leave . by challenge that sale pitch , we will deter people from come . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , but I think he misunderstand the basic psychology here . we be talk about people who have already risk life and limb and take a very dangerous journey to get as far as the channel . the idea that a 0 . 3 % chance of be remove to Rwanda be go to deter people who have already take such massive risk be simply for the bird , and that be why the Rwanda scheme be fundamentally flawed . last but not least , we have the Immigration Minister , whose late foray into play the tough guy be to order that Mickey Mouse cartoon in immigration centre be paint over because they be just too cheery for his liking . many of those child be run away from unimaginable horror , so I really do hope that the Minister will take some time to reflect on the morality of his action . the sheer pettiness and petulance be also quite astonishing , because paint over Disney character in immigration centre will not stop the boat — I can not believe I even need to say those word . those three short story about the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the Immigration Minister make it clear that we be not exactly deal with a well - oil machine here . last week , we finally receive the Home Office ' s impact assessment for this legislation , which reveal that it will cost the Government £ 169 , 000 per asylum seeker send to Rwanda — five time the figure be brief out when the partnership be announce last year . that be on top of the £ 140 million that have already be hand over to the Rwandan Government for what must surely be the most expensive press release in history . this whole sorry tale be a shambolic farce , and the cost to the taxpayer of the Rwanda policy , this legislation and the asylum backlog have become utterly extortionate . the cost of the asylum system be estimate by the National Audit Office to be seven time as large as it be under the last Labour Government — at an astonishing £ 3 . 6 billion . almost 50 , 000 people be stick in hotel , at £ 7 million a day , with 172 , 000 in the backlog . for the avoidance of doubt , that be the real backlog , not the imaginary " legacy case " invent by the Prime Minister as a way of spin the number . in fact , the backlog be nine time high than it be when Labour leave office in 2010 . by the way , we be still wait for the Immigration Minister and the Prime Minister to correct the record on this point after the UK Statistics Authority comprehensively demolish their claim . as the Home Secretary and her official have confirm , number be go up , not down . yesterday , the permanent secretary to the Home Office confirm to the Public Accounts Committee that the Prime Minister be fail in his pledge to reduce asylum seeker hotel use . to make matter bad , the National Audit Office have declare that the Government will also fail to achieve their aim of clear the so - call legacy backlog of 92 , 000 case by the end of this year . we be here to discuss rather a lot of Lords amendment . the hon . Gentleman have now be speak for six minute . I have be listen hard and , by my reckoning , he have not mention a single amendment . can he give we an ETA for when he be likely to start talk relevantly about what we be here to discuss ? many of we would like to discuss the amendment . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I simply note that the Immigration Minister be on his foot for one hour and 15 minute . there be plenty of context and background in his comment , too . we need to understand that the Bill have be bring forward against a backdrop of crisis and chaos and it be important that we have that on the record . interestingly , the Prime Minister seem to have concoct a new solution , which be simply to allow asylum seeker to slip off the radar , never to be see or hear of again . the Government claim that their decision - make rate have increase and that they be get on with clear the backlog , but the reality be that more than half of the so - call asylum decision be withdraw application or so - call administrative decision . in other word , asylum seeker be melt into the underground economy , and many of they will never be hear of or see again by our authority . the Government be just let they go . withdrawal , as a proportion of complete case , have increase from 20 % to 55 % on this Prime Minister ' s watch . if that be not turn a blind eye to people abscond and disappear into the system , I do not know what be . it be against that backdrop of crisis and chaos that Ministers introduce the legislation before we this afternoon . as we have consistently point out , the Bill will only make a terrible situation bad . far from clean up the awful mess that have build up over 13 year of ineptitude , it will simply grow the backlog , increase the cost and ensure that people smuggler be laugh all the way to the bank . at the heart of the Bill be two instruction to the Government — to detain and remove every asylum seeker who come to the UK via irregular route — but with our asylum accommodation capacity already at break point , where on earth will the Home Secretary detain they ? and with her unworkable Rwanda plan in tatter and with negotiation with the EU on a successor to the Dublin regulation nowhere to be see , where on earth be she go to remove they to ? we therefore commend the work of all the Lords and baroness who have seek to improve this profoundly flawed and counterproductive Bill . they really have their work cut out for they , give that the Government be defeat a staggering 20 time in the other place . amendment throughout the Bill ' s passage have focus on mitigate its most egregious excess , while try to steer the Government in the direction of Labour ' s five - point plan to fix the broken asylum system that , despite their protestation , Conservative member know full well be a comprehensive agenda base on hard graft , common sense and quiet diplomacy , rather than the headline - chase gimmick they have come up with . our plan include repurpose the Rwanda money to the National Crime Agency to recruit a specialist unit of officer to tackle the criminal gang upstream . lord amendment 103 , in the name of Lord Coaker , place responsibility on the NCA to tackle immigration crime . of the other substantial Lords amendment , the majority seek to prevent the utterly unnecessary attack on some of the most vulnerable people in society , commit Britain to comply with international law , or seek to find long - term solution to the global asylum crisis via international solution and control and manage route . to ensure that Britain meet its obligation under international law , we support Lords amendment 1 , which add a requirement that nothing in the Bill should require any act that would violate the UK ' s relevant commitment under international law . we be extremely concerned that the Government be subject unaccompanied child to the so - call hostile environment . while the Minister paint over Mickey Mouse mural , we on these Benches want unaccompanied child to be treat with respect . that be why we support Lords amendment 33 , which retain the current 72 - hour limit on the detention of child , and Lords amendment 31 , which retain the current 24 - hour limit on the detention of unaccompanied child , both in the name of Baroness Mobarik . we do not believe the Government ' s concession offer enough . I be superficially attract to Lords amendment 1 , but will the hon . Gentleman consider these two point ? first , it be an established principle of interpretation that the court will always read statute in accordance with international convention obligation , as far as it be possible to do so — that be most recently establish in the Assange case . secondly , Lord Wolfson raise the point in the other place that the effect of clause 1 , as amend , however intend , be substantively to entrench or incorporate those convention in UK domestic law . surely that be not something that should be do through an amendment to an Act of Parliament . there may be argument for or against it , but that be its effect . it be not an interpretive clause but an incorporative clause , and some of we have a problem with do it in that way at this time in this particular Bill . I thank the Chairman of the Justice Committee for that intervention . let we not forget that page 1 say the Government can not confirm that the Bill complie with international law . I also remind he that we be deal with a Government who seem to be more than prepared to break international law , with the Northern Ireland protocol be just one example . I be afraid it be just not possible to take the Government ' s word on trust or at face value , which be why additional safeguard have to be build into the process . lord amendment 8 , in the name of Lord Dubs , seek to ensure that asylum and human right claim from unaccompanied child who be exempt from the duty to remove be treat as admissible , and Lords amendment 50 , in the name of the Bishop of Durham , limit the Secretary of State ' s power to transfer a child out of local authority care and into accommodation provide by the Home Office to case where to do so be " necessary to safeguard and promote the welfare of the child . " we be also determined to protect vulnerable woman , particularly those who be pregnant or victim of modern slavery . in that spirit , we on these Benches support Baroness Lister ' s amendment 37 and 38 , which retain the 72 - hour limit on the detention of pregnant woman . we be less than satisfied with the Government ' s concession on this point . we support the amendment that protect victim of modern slavery , include Lords amendment 56 in the name of Lord Randall , which exempt victim of modern slavery from be remove and from be deny access to support during the statutory recovery period , and Lords amendment 57 , table by Lord Carlile , which remove the Bill ' s presumption that it be not necessary for victim of modern slavery to remain in the UK for the purpose of co - operate with any criminal proceeding against alleged perpetrator . that of course might sometimes be the case . ultimately , the Government need to accelerate the national referral process as a matter of urgency because the average wait time be 553 day , which be unacceptable . the Immigration Minister ' s incorrect comment on modern slavery have be well document , and he be recently rebuke yet again by the UK Statistics Authority for make those unfounded claim . the constant stream of factually incorrect claim distort the debate and play into the hand of the people trafficker . I strongly encourage we to start see the fact and evidence before we as the basis for debate , otherwise there be such a danger that the Bill will turn into a trafficker charter , with the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the Immigration Minister effectively enable the criminal gang . we also support Lords amendment 23 in the name of Lord Etherton , as we can not have a situation in which we remove LGBT refugee to third country with government that pursue homophobic and transphobic policy . I stress that , on these Benches , we be strongly committed to work with our international partner as we seek to find long - term solution to the global migration crisis . in Committee and on Report , we table an international co - operation amendment to connect the need to achieve a return deal with the EU and France for small - boat migrant with the need for Britain and other european country to play our part in give sanctuary to genuine refugee in need of our support , start with those who have family in the UK . this remain our commitment for when we enter government . to that end , we support Lords amendment 104 in the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury , which require the Government to publish a 10 - year strategy on counter human trafficking and respond to international refugee crisis , and Lords amendment 102 in the name of Baroness Stroud , which place a duty on the Government to establish safe and legal route to asylum . finally , Lord German ' s amendment 9 rightly state that the Government should accept asylum claim if they have not remove inadmissible claimant within six month . we can not have refugee stick in indefinite limbo , unable to work or contribute , at an extortionate cost to the taxpayer . the Government be already introduce this big backlog Bill . it beggar belief that Ministers now want to turn this legislation into an indefinite limbo Bill . the amendment before we today enjoy substantial support in the other place , each pass by a comfortable margin . a responsible Government would have seek compromise and make concession , but instead Ministers choose to double down , to the point where Parliament be treat to the spectacle of Lord Lebedev of Siberia be drag in to vote for the first time since he be ennoble three year ago , in a desperately futile whipping operation . the truth be that the Bill be just a tawdry and deeply counterproductive attempt to show that the Government be do something — anything — to respond to a grow asylum crisis of their making . those on the government Benches know that the asylum system be break — indeed , they admit it — and they should know because they break it . their attempt to fix it be a shamble . they have send more Home Secretaries to Rwanda than asylum seeker . they have have two migration Bills , yet neither have stop a single boat . this Bill — the big backlog Bill — will increase asylum hotel use all around the country . recently , before the Home Affairs Committee , the Home Secretary fail to tell we how she will find the 154 vulnerable child miss from Government asylum hotel ; how many asylum caseworker actually work in her Department ; and how many of the 12 , 000 Albanians who arrive on small boat last year have be return . it be a scene of crisis and chaos . the Conservatives have take a sledgehammer to our asylum system , and british taxpayer be pay the price . perhaps the most disheartening aspect of this whole fiasco be that the Government never take responsibility and always try to pass the buck . they blame the british legal system , the civil service and the EU — they even blame the football pundit — but they have a work majority in this place , so this be on they and they only . they have fail , so they need to get out of the way . we need a general election , a Labour Government , and our comprehensive plan to stop the boat and fix the broken asylum system — and we need it now . rise — order . it be clear to I that this debate be go to go the distance , and a number of people be try to catch my eye . we have only two hour leave , so may I ask for brevity , as it would be incredibly useful in try to get everybody in ? I call Theresa May . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to concentrate my remark on Lords amendment 2 and 56 . I welcome the Government ' s movement on the issue of retrospection . whatever the motivation , it do mean that people who come here and be subject to slavery , and who arrive after 7 March and before the commencement of the Bill , will get support . I welcome that . however , of course I want support to continue for the victim of modern slavery here in the UK after commencement of the Bill . hence my interest , as a former Home Secretary and long - stand Member of this House , in Lords amendment 56 , which be table by Lord Randall . the Bill have be market as a stop the boat Bill . we all want to stop the boat . nobody want to see people risk their life in small boat go across the channel , as we do not want to see people risk their life in unseaworthy vessel go across the Mediterranean . however , this Bill be not just write to stop the boat ; it cover all illegal migration and its unwritten subtext be the " stop certain victim ’ claim of modern slavery " Bill . this be not about stop false claim of modern slavery ; it be about stop all claim , full stop . that be where I depart from the Government . when I be Home Secretary , we be very clear that modern slavery should not be see as part of the immigration issue , but the Government be now take those two together , and that be one of the difficulty . it be not clear what problem will be solve by say that people who be here illegally can not claim modern slavery and can not be afford the support and protection afford to modern slavery victim , and , therefore , it be not clear why the Government want to reject Lords amendment 56 . perhaps the Government ' s concern be that people will come off the small boat and claim modern slavery , but the amendment do not allow they to do that . it have be suggest to I that a boat might land and not be apprehend , and when somebody be catch a couple of day later , for example , they would then claim modern slavery . first , let I say that the first responder , aid by the change in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , should be well able to see through that . secondly , the purpose of the Bill be to stop the boat , so if the Bill be successful , that situation will not occur . Lords amendment 56 be not about small boat . almost no one arrive on a small boat after commencement of this Bill will be cover by it , but I do want to set out the type of victim who would be cover by that amendment and , therefore , be now go to be deny support as a victim of modern slavery . let we imagine a young woman — it could be a young man but , give the number , it be most likely to be a young woman — who be persuade by a male friend to come over to the UK for what he say will be a great job and a wonderful life together . perhaps she think that they be in love , that this be a way of get out of the debt she be in , or that she want to leave a difficult family relationship or an abusive relationship . she come with he , probably on illegal document , but that be unbeknown to she . as soon as she get here , she be put into prostitution and he benefit financially from that . force into sexual exploitation , live in appalling condition and not pay , she be in slavery . after several month or perhaps after year , she manage to escape . under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , she could be provide with the support need to get her life back and enable the police to identify and prosecute the perpetrator . under this Bill , the Government ' s response would be quite different . she would get no support . the Government ' s response would be , " we don ' t care that you have be in slavery in the UK . we don ' t care that you ' ve be in a live hell . we don ' t care that you have be the victim of crime . we do care that you come here illegally , even though you probably didn ' t know it . so we be go to detain you and send you home , even if it be into the arm of the very people who traffic you here in the first place . or we want to send you to Rwanda . " no thought would be give to whether the young woman would get her life back and , crucially , no thought would be give to catch and prosecute the perpetrator . the evidence of the police be clear : if we want victim to provide evidence to bring slave driver to justice , the victim need time and support , and they need to be here . this Bill tie the hand of the police and undo the good work of the Modern Slavery Act . I know that Ministers have say that this Bill will enable more perpetrator to be stop , but on modern slavery I genuinely believe it will do the opposite : it will enable more slave driver to operate and make money out of human misery . it will consign more people to slavery . there be no doubt about it : if Lords amendment 56 be overthrow , that will be the impact . the Minister have show a willingness — he have describe this at the Dispatch Box today — to look for mitigation . however , as he say , so far those mitigation have be offer as limited change and only in guidance , not in the Bill . the good mitigation would be not to press the objection to Lords amendment 56 and allow it to stand in the Bill . in the absence of that , I hope that the Government will stand by assurance they have give to find some workable compromise , but to put it in the Bill . the Government want to deny certain victim of modern slavery support , which will deeply damage the operation of the Modern Slavery Act . the alternative be to let Lords amendment 56 stand . if the Government persist in disagree with Lords amendment 56 , I will have to persist in disagree with the Government . rise — I call Dame Diana Johnson . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I start by agree with the Minister on the vital role that the other place play as a revise Chamber — Order . sorry , Dame Diana . you be the next one to speak from your party , and I have make a faux pas . I should call Stuart C . McDonald . I absolutely forgive you for that , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I offer my apology to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I look forward to hear her remark shortly . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , and I echo everything she say about modern slavery . I would like to say it be a pleasure to be take part in a debate on this Bill again , but unfortunately it most definitely be not . member will not be surprised to hear that the position of my party be that this remain a rotten , utterly misconceived and cruel Bill that will not stop boat but will cause immense human suffering to people who have flee persecution and harm . for the reason we have just hear , it be a trafficker charter . it have be rush through Parliament in a most appalling way , without consultation or proper scrutiny . although the House of Lords have do some decent work to date , forgive I if we be not pop the champagne cork at this stage . the 20 Lords amendment add a bit of polish , but they barely scratch the surface of the problem with the Bill , and experience tell we , unfortunately , that their lordship will be bargain down to three or four moderate concession . they have already pass up the chance to refuse the Bill a second reading , with Labour peer abstain for utterly unconvincing reason . if it be a revising Chamber with any sort of tooth or credibility , it would at least be use its power to delay this Bill and let voter decide this issue for themselves at the next election . in that context , it be vital that we remember during today ' s debate and the whole ping - pong process that only one solitary sentence in the Government ' s 2019 manifesto refer to asylum . it be a very benign sentence : " we will continue to grant asylum and support to refugee flee persecution , with the ultimate aim of help they to return home if it be safe to do so . " that be it . this Bill , and every single one of the Government ' s motion to reject the Lords amendment , be completely and utterly contrary to that pledge . without the amendment , the Bill will essentially stop the grant of asylum to almost anyone . instead of offer support or an assisted return home to most refugee , it will enforce unlimited detention at the whim of the Home Secretary , permanent limbo , or threaten removal to Rwanda . even child and traffic victim be not to be spare , and the consequence for they will be horrendous . this outrageous Bill , which ride roughshod over international law without any electoral endorsement , be precisely the sort of Bill that the House of Lords should be vote down and delay . we can make that less necessary by agree to all the Lords amendment . that be the least we should do , and it really should not be too much to ask . as we have hear , we be talk about amendment that will ensure compliance with our international obligation under vital international treaty such as the refugee convention , the european convention on human right , the traffic convention and the convention on the right of the child . we be talk about basic respect for the rule of law , and my party wholeheartedly endorse Lords amendment 1 , which incorporate those obligation into the Bill . when the Minister be ask about Lords amendment 1 , he say that it " go without say " that the Government adhere to their international obligation , but they have not be able to certify the Bill as compatible with the ECHR and the cross - party Joint Committee on Human Rights , under my chairmanship , say that the Bill risk breach a number of our bind international human right obligation . be it not the case that , as thing stand , the only way we have of put that right be to support Lords amendment 1 ? I absolutely agree . the most obvious example — I would say it be blindingly obvious — be the traffic convention . that say that we must provide support to victim of trafficking , yet here we have a Bill that say the opposite . we be go to say , " victim of traffic or not , you be not get support . " that be a blatant contravention of the traffic convention , and that be why we need the treaty in Lords amendment 1 incorporate into clause 1 . surely , the hon . Gentleman recognise that the point of Lords amendment 1 be to incorporate a whole range of international obligation into our law . it may well be that those obligation matter and that the Bill need to be in line with they , but Lords amendment 1 would incorporate they into law . this be not the place to do that , and it be not the mean to do it . it be absolutely the place to do it , and it be essential that we do it , precisely for the reason I have just give . various provision of the Bill clearly breach some of those convention . I have just give the example of the traffic convention . I can not see how any sensible person can read the Bill and say that it accord with our obligation under the traffic convention — I really can not . I see no alternative but to support Lords amendment 1 ; in fact , I absolutely embrace what their lordship have attempt to do here . we be also talk about amendment to stop mass and indeterminate detention at the whim of the Home Secretary . very little attention have be draw to those shocking and appalling power today ; I would have think they would embarrass some conservative mp , yet we have barely consider they . we need to bring back the principle that it be for the court to assess what be necessary to effect removal , rather than leave it open to the Home Secretary to detain just for her convenience . we be talk about amendment protect pregnant woman , and accompany and unaccompanied child , from lengthy detention . the concession on pregnant woman be a rare positive , and I welcome it , but the so - call concession on detain child be nothing of the sort . it mean that a few , but very far from all , will be allow to apply for bail after eight day . that be not a time limit and it will not apply universally — far from it . we should not let the Government away with detain hundred and possibly thousand of kid indefinitely . the Government have be force to concede on amendment regard the retrospective application of the Bill , which be good . presumably , they do not want a backlog of 10 , 000 as soon as the Bill go into force . again , though , the concession do not go far enough , as important part of the Bill will still be apply retrospectively . in the Government ' s amendment in lieu , there be a power for Ministers to change the commencement date again . it would be useful at least to have an assurance from the Minister that that will not be use to put the clock back again , whether to March or to any other time before Royal Assent . we be talk about amendment protect LGBT people from removal to country where they will almost certainly face serious harm . that protection be necessary , because the flimsy procedure in the Bill as it stand when the Government introduce it be totally inadequate to stop that happen . we be talk about amendment to remove victim of trafficking from the Bill ' s horrendous reach . as the right hon . member for Maidenhead put it , without the Lords amendment , trafficking and slavery victim will have absolutely no incentive to seek support from the Government ; in fact , they will have every incentive not to . instead , they will be drive straight back into the hand of the people who have be exploit they . we be talk about amendment to stop the Home Office stick child in hotel , from which hundred have already go missing . as the Children ' s Commissioner for England and Wales say just yesterday , that can not be allow to happen . we be talk about amendment to stop the Home Office remove child before the Home Office age assessment can be challenge . the Minister fail to mention that , in the majority of case where there be a dispute about age , the Home Office be show to be wrong . there be an appalling danger that unaccompanied child will be kick out of the country before they have the chance to challenge the assessment that have be make about they . we be talk about amendment to strengthen the pathetic safeguard in the Bill so that those challenge removal do not need to meet impossible test of imminent , serious and irreversible harm . we be also talk about amendment to reinstate the fundamental right to challenge potentially illegal Government removal decision through judicial review before people be stick on a plane . again , we be simply ask for respect for our court and the rule of law . we support the worthy amendment table by the Archbishop of Canterbury to support safe route and a proper strategy . we support the pivotal Lords amendment that say that we should process asylum claim from child , and claim from people who be not remove within six month , just as happen now . without that amendment , many thousand of people will end up permanently in limbo — either in indefinite detention or be support indefinitely — or go underground because they have no incentive any more to keep in touch with the Home Office . it show how extraordinarily far to the extreme this Parliament have lurch that any of those Lords amendment be even controversial . all the risk assessment that the Government be force to publish should have cause alarm bell to ring loudly . the Bill will be an absolute disaster , and an expensive one at that — in term of spending and for the UK ' s reputation , but most importantly for the life of the people who be catch up in its tentacle . it be the desperate last throw of the dice from a desperate government . the real question be whether we will , for once , see some gumption and ambition from the second Chamber . there be no point in its pass 20 amendment just to give they all up seven day later . if it be not this outrageous Bill that the House of Lords kick into touch , then which one will it be ? if not this attack on international law , utterly without electoral mandate , what will it take ? if lock up child , hand power to trafficker and destroy the asylum system do not spur the House of Lords into action , what will ? if the House of Lords be not go to use its power now , what be the point of those power ? what be the point of the House of Lords , and what be the point of the Opposition appoint peer ? the Bill do not just need all the Lords amendment retain ; frankly , it need stop , and it be up to the House of Lords to make sure that happen . rise — Order . I will call Tim Loughton first , and then it will be Dame Diana take two . I will aim to complete my speech in less time than it take the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) to start talk about the Lords amendment , which be what we be here to do — but we will see how we go . I declare an interest as the chair of a safeguarding board of a child ' s company . I thank the Minister for the extensive discussion that we have have about the Lords amendment . I fear that we have not quite get there , so we may be back here again in a while . there have be an inordinate amount of debate on the Bill , and a lot of work have be do in the Lords , which be why we have so many amendment . I support the Bill and I want it to pass , but it need properly to balance safe and legal route , and assurance about look after the most vulnerable — particularly child — with come down hard on people who be game the system and do not have a legitimate case for claim asylum in the UK . I do not have time to talk about every Lords amendment , so I will focus on two main area : child detention , and safe and legal route . I be pleased and grateful to the Government for the progress that we have make on the detention of pregnant woman ; that be a no - brainer , frankly . I also have some concern around the treatment of people be transport back to other country on the ground of sexuality , and I want further assurance on that from the Minister . I also have concern about accompany child . there be a real problem with so - call family , who have be put together by people smuggler , as the Home Affairs Committee see when we go to Dover . we come across somebody claim to be the uncle of a young girl and they do not even speak the same language . there be problem here , but I absolutely want to concentrate on unaccompanied asylum - seek child . I be also pleased that Lord Carlile ' s amendment around retrospectivity have be accept . the Archbishop of Canterbury ' s 10 - year strategy have some merit in it , but I do not think that it be for this Bill ; it be a strategy for a Government rather than be for a piece of legislation such as this . on the subject of child detention , despite the substantial discussion I mention , it would appear that the Government be set out only a very narrow concession , just to give the possibility of bail after eight day to one small subgroup of unaccompanied asylum - seek child detain on the ground of removal only . the Government themselves say in March in guidance : " a period of detention can have a significant and negative impact on a child ' s mental or physical health and development " . I think that we would all agree with that , so such detention need to be use sensitively and sparingly . this be a really sensitive issue . I think it be a proud achievement of the coalition Government when , after a Citizens ' Assembly back in 2010 , David Cameron say that child detention be not acceptable and pledge to end it . it be part of the coalition programme in May 2010 . detention policy change in 2011 and be codify in the Immigration Act 2014 . large number of child be be detain before 2010 . there be 1 , 065 child be detain in 2009 alone . there be a case of a three - year - old girl who have spend 166 day of her life — her short life — in Yarl ' s Wood detention centre . that be completely unacceptable , so it be right that the law be change . at the time , guarantee be also make in a debate on the Nationality and Borders Bill . the Government make explicitly clear their commitment to the rationale that unaccompanied child should not be block from claim asylum and would be exempt from the inadmissibility process . as the Minister set out on Report of that Bill : " I wish to emphasise that we will always act in accordance with our international obligation , and to be very clear that unaccompanie asylum - seek child will not be subject to inadmissibility or transfer for offshore processing . " — [ Official Report , 7 December 2021 ; Vol . 705 , c . 311 . ] there be merit in that then and there be still merit in it now . this matter be raise as a priority issue in the Committee and Report stage of this Bill . the Minister promise we change in the Lords . that be why we do not push to a vote the amendment table in my name and the name of other right hon . and hon . member at that stage . however , I be afraid that the promise do not materialise in the House of Lords , and only now , with amendment in lieu , be we see some concession at this late stage , which , frankly , be not good enough . that be why , I be afraid , there be some scarcity of trust in the assurance give from the Dispatch Box , rather than stuff write , prima facie , in the Bill , or in specific guidance link to undertaking in the Bill . we need to see more detail in the Bill , not just assurance from the Dispatch Box , which have not always be forthcoming . in change the law , we need to comply with a clear set of principle when we be deal with vulnerable child . child should be treat differently from adult . any child in the United Kingdom be entitle to the same protection whether they arrive on a boat or they be bear here . whether we like it or not , a child be a child and , as such , should be subject to the safety of the Children Act 1989 , which be as relevant today as it be when it be first legislate for . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . I absolutely agree with the point that he have just make . this also fit in with the 1989 convention on the right of the child , which the British Government very rapidly and quite correctly sign up to at that time . withdraw from that convention surely weaken that protection . the paramount piece of legislation in this country be the Children Act 1989 . we should be proud of it , as it be copy and envy the world over . that be how we in this country look after child who need the protection of the state for an assortment of reason . in my book , the Children Act — I always carry it with I , and I have it here today — usually trump everything else . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , but I do not want to take too many intervention , because many other wish to speak . we know from the people who arrive in hotel that perhaps 20 % of the migrant will be child — or say they be child . we know that that will be the case among those who arrive at RAF Scampton . as the Government be talk about 2 , 000 people come here , we may need 40 or 50 social worker , which we can not afford in Lincolnshire . we do not have the resource to look after these people properly , to assess they , to work out whether they be child and to decide how they be go to be look after . be my hon . friend not make the point that it be much well to disperse people rather than to shove 2 , 000 illegal migrant in one place ? my right hon . friend have ingeniously insert into this debate his particular constituency interest , of which , I think , the entire House and the entire world be aware , and I have some sympathy with he . I agree that there be a problem with dispersal . the dispersal system be not operate properly in this country , which be why Kent in particular , which be at the forefront , have see more than 600 child come through already this year , of whom many be still within the care of Kent . one local authority can not be expect to deal with that ; we need a well dispersal system , whereby the support service , as well as the fabric , be able to accommodate these child . there be a specific problem with adult impersonate child . the Home Office ' s own figure say that something like 47 % of age - dispute child turn out to be adult , which mean that 53 % , a small majority , turn out to be actual child , although it have not publish the evidence for those finding . the JCHR report quote the Helen Bamber Foundation survey of 2022 , which state that 70 local authority have have 1 , 386 young people refer to they , of whom 63 % — almost two third — be find to be child . it be really important to have effective and accurate age assessment , and it be really important to do they quickly . the Government assure I that they be bring forward age assessment . they take , on average , six week — I do not know why they take six week ; it should not take that long to do a Merton assessment and , potentially , some x - ray medical intervention as well . the Government need to speed up that process . if a child be wrongly assess as an adult and deport , that can not be correct . we have problem with hotel and miss child — I recognise that . we have problem with child potentially go underground as they approach their 18th birthday , as they may well be transport out of the country under the Bill . we have problem with 16 or 17 - year - old , or those purport to be 16 or 17 - year - old , abscond if they be not in the secure estate . these be the complex problem that the Government have to face . we also have a problem with the exist law , as there be just 24 hour to detain child for the purpose of transport they out , which be not enough . we therefore have a lot of problem . however , Government amendment ( a ) to clause 12 in lieu of Lords amendment 31 , 35 and 36 leave clause 10 , which have a lot of Henry VIII power leave decision up to the Secretary of State , largely untouched . the Government ' s amendment in lieu retain the position that bail can not be grant for 28 day to those who fall within the Bill ' s scheme . it retain that position for unaccompanied child too where they be be detain pende a decision to grant leave , limited leave as an unaccompanied child , discretionary leave or leave as a trafficking victim . that mean that for the purpose of initial processing , unaccompanied child will be in exactly the same position as anyone else who fall within the Bill ' s scheme , that is , there be no statutory limit on their detention and they can not be grant bail before 28 day . unaccompanied child arrival be to be treat the same way as adult arrival in term of their detention for initial processing , and the amendment provide nothing for unaccompanied child detain for that purpose . it would only allow for potential bail of an unaccompanied child who have be detain pende a decision to remove they or pende their removal , where the Government be use their discretionary power under clause 3 ( 2 ) to remove an unaccompanied child while they be still under 18 . in those circumstance , which the Government contend will be the minority of case , the unaccompanied child will , with this amendment , now have the opportunity of be grant bail after be detain for eight day . whether in practice the child could apply for bail after day eight would depend on multiple factor , one key factor be whether the unaccompanied child have be transfer to local authority care and subsequently detain prior to removal , or have only ever be detain since arrival in the UK . other factor impact whether bail be obtainable in practice would include where the child be detain , whether any outside service reach the child in detention , whether such service could refer to a lawyer with the capacity to take on the bail case in light of the failure of the legal aid market and legal aid advice , and whether the child have the capacity to instruct a lawyer . there be strong reason to doubt whether the possibility of bail after day eight would necessarily lead to many , if any , unaccompanied child be release from detention in practice . there be a currently nothing on the face of the detention clause about age dispute , which I be assure there would be . there be no additional safeguard for they on the face of the Bill at all . a putative child who be treat as an adult would only be able to get bail after 28 day in line with the Bill ' s detention scheme . much of what I say be on the advice of Coram , which be highly respected for how it look after unaccompanied child asylum seeker . I thank my hon . friend for give I advance notice that he plan to raise the interaction of clause 12 and clause 10 . if I may answer his point briefly , the amendment in lieu relate to the power to grant immigration bail , so amend clause 12 , which be the power to grant immigration bail , be the correct place to set out the eight day . the detention power themselves remain the same . that provide additional judicial oversight of unaccompanied child . the reason for amend clause 12 be that it be the clause that prohibit the first - tier tribunal from grant bail until 28 day have elapse from the first day of detention . there be no need to amend clause 10 to give effect to that policy change . clause 10 deal with the power of detention and say nothing on bail . I hope that that answer his concern , but I be happy to follow up with he later if he would like . I think we may have to , because that be certainly not my understanding . there be Henry VIII paragraph in clause 10 that still give ultimate discretion to the Secretary of State , with or without what be go to happen to clause 12 . I be afraid that be symptomatic of the continue problem with the Bill . it have become so complicated , there be many double negative within it and only last night , at about 7 . 45 pm , do the Government publish their amendment , which we have just a few hour to scrutinise before today ' s debate . this matter need proper explanation and it have not be properly explain . the assurance that we be promise have not materialise — or , if they have , I be afraid no one understand they . on that basis I be afraid that we , and I hope I speak here for many on the Government Benches , can not take these amendment in lieu at face value . More work need to be do . I hope this House will make sure that this matter go back to the Lords in order for further concession to be give . clause 10 certainly need to be overhaul . if we go back to the Borders , Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 , there be a clear duty on the Secretary of State . section 55 ( 3 ) state : " a person exercise any of those function must , in exercise the function , have regard to any guidance give to the person by the Secretary of State " for that purpose . there be no such undertaking in this Bill about have to observe and abide by guidance . why not ? perhaps the Minister will come back to that in his response later . the Minister keep refer to the Detention Centre Rules 2001 . they certainly need an overhaul , but I repeat my early point : they be all about thing such as clean clothing , access to nutritious food , respect for religion , family visit and so on . where be the special provision for support service specifically for child , the child psychologist , access to social worker and other child support ? that be what age - appropriate accommodation and support mean — not just a suitable house that , without wish to labour the point again , may or may not have cartoon on the wall . also , the Government have to admit that although those detention law have be in place since 2001 , that do not stop young child , and young child with family , be detain , for upwards of two week in some case , at Manston , and certainly not in age - appropriate accommodation . frankly , I be afraid that the system be not work now , yet we be look to dilute the age - appropriateness of what be now on offer . that be where we on the conservative Benches have serious concern , and it be not just we : many child ' s charity be concern , and the Children ' s Commissioner say : " the Home Office have still not be able to provide I with vital information I have request about the safeguarding of child in their accommodation . I be therefore unclear about how they can make informed assessment about the impact of the Home Office accommodate child without have this datum . " we be lead to believe that there would be clear distinction for child who be clearly and genuinely child : they would be detain for no more than eight day on the way in as well as , potentially for a few , on the way out ; they would have age - appropriate accommodation ; and there would be some form of foster care , child ' s home or whatever it may be . there would then be differential accommodation for those for whom there be an age - verification question mark . we do not know if that accommodation exist , what sort of accommodation it will actually be , or how we will separate adult from those who turn out to be child . the Minister assure we that if age - appropriate accommodation be not available for that subset , they would be treat as child and subject then to the less restriction on genuine child . that be not in the amendment and it be still not in the Bill . what and where be the available accommodation for child and for disputed child ? what be the legal status of detain unaccompanied child during that eight - day period , where it apply to they ? what local authority duty apply on arrival and for the eight day , and what be the Home Office responsible for in those eight day ? do the child retain look - after status while detain , or do the Home Office propose that that status cease , as with a custodial sentence ? those be , I be afraid , all the question to which we need answer , but we be still in the dark with the amendment table in lieu , which be why we just can not support they . this be a far cry from the undertaking in the Immigration Act 2014 , which state : " an unaccompanied child may be detain under paragraph 16 ( 2 ) in a short - term hold facility for a maximum period of 24 hour " . in the absence of a suitable amendment in lieu cover all those consideration , as promise , I be afraid that we must oppose the amendment in lieu . although it would revert to Baroness Mobarik ' s amendment to return to the 24 - hour status quo , which be not practical , I agree — we will have to come up with something more — that be all that be on offer at the moment . I will be very brief , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I have break my pledge . I be pleased that we get safe and legal route on to the face of the Bill , and that some concession be make in this place on the understanding that they could be beef up in the House of Lords . that be what the noble Baroness Stroud ' s amendment would do . clause 59 only accept a duty to produce a report — a work that require consultation with local authority . that should be happen now ; it should have start month ago , so say , " oh it be go to take several month ; we need to do the consulting " be nonsense . that work should already have start . all the clause amount to be a loose assurance that something will come in by the end of next year , and it be not in the Bill . the Baroness Stroud amendment seek to make regulation come in within two month of the report . as she say on Report , her amendment " be design purely to place a duty on the Government to do what they say they intend to do anyway — introduce safe and legal route " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 July 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 1248 . ] that go beyond just reproduce a report on how they might do it . that be what we need to see , and it be why I will vote against the amendment in lieu of the child detention . I will vote in favour of the Baroness Stroud amendment on safe and legal route . I will certainly not repeat everything that be say by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , but she make a strong case , and I be tempt to follow she into the Division Lobby on the Randall amendment as well . those be the three main area . there be still much more work to be do on the Bill , so that be how I will vote , and I urge hon . friend to do the same . I remind member that the debate have to finish at 5 o ' clock , so please bear that in mind when make speech . I call Dame Diana Johnson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will try again . I want to start by agree with the Minister about the vital role that the other place play as a revise Chamber in ask we to look again , particularly when we have not have pre - legislative scrutiny of a draft Bill and when , as I think most member would agree , this legislation have be rush through Parliament . I echo the comment of the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) about how complicated the Bill have get and the fact that we have not have much time to consider the amendment table by the Government late last night . I also want to say at the outset that , in our report on small boat last year , the Home Affairs Committee make it very clear that it be not the number of people come across in small boat that have overwhelm the asylum system but the failure to process the asylum application that have be make over a number of year . the Home Office have allow the backlog to grow — it be now over 170 , 000 — which have the effect of gum up the system , and that be why we be spend £ 7 million a day on hotel . I know that the Home Office have in train plan to deal with the backlog , and the Prime Minister have say that the legacy backlog will be clear by the end of the year . we all want to see that happen ; it be in no one ' s interest to see that backlog grow even more . the right hon . Lady be right about processing be a key part of deal with the backlog , but Lords amendment 7 , 90 and 93 would allow for further legal challenge , create more delay and , in her word , gum up the system to an even great degree than it be now . surely she do not support that attempt to undermine the principle of the Bill and add to the very problem that she be articulate . what I want , and what the Home Affairs Committee have be very clear about , be an efficient , speedy asylum claim process that be fair but timely . Germany , for example , have far more asylum claimant than we have and manage to process its claim within seven month . many of the people who claim asylum in this country be wait for year . that be why we have get ourselves into the problem that we be try to address through the Bill . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will , but I be conscious of time . I wonder whether the right hon . Lady can explain how do nothing about thousand of undocumented people land on our shore week in , week out will help speed up the Home Office system . I say to the hon . member with the great respect that he might want to look at the Home Affairs Committee report on small boat , publish last summer , in which we make a number of key recommendation for how the Government could start to address the small boat problem , one of which be , as I start off by say , address the backlog . we know that people can come to this country , disappear and feel that their claim will not be hear for year . that be not in anyone ' s interest . if he take the time to read the report , he might get some idea of the recommendation that we have put forward cross - party , include a pilot to allow processing in France , to stop people make that perilous journey across the channel . I turn to the Lords amendment . first , I want to deal with the removal of retrospective application under Lord Carlile ' s amendment . I be really glad to see that the Government have agree to remove the retrospective element of the Bill , with Royal Assent as the start date , which mean that there will not be an immediate backlog of people wait to be deport . however , this could provide a false sense of security about the Bill ' s implication . it seem to I that when the Bill become an Act , a new backlog will be quickly grow , with thousand of people detain if we see the same number come across in small boat that we have see in the last few week and month , and we have no third country to send they to . with the Court of Appeal judgment now be appeal in the Supreme Court , we do not know whether the Rwanda plan will be lawful . so far this year , over 12 , 500 people have make that dangerous channel crossing to the UK . there may well be hundred more arrive each month once the Bill be enact , and I be concerned about what happen to they . even if the Rwanda plan ultimately get the green light , the Government have yet to provide any evidence of the number of people who could be send there — that be not clear . in fact , I be look at document relate to the Home Office ' s business plan yesterday , and the Home Office be work on the assumption that just 250 people would be remove to a third country each month , yet 3 , 824 people cross the channel in June this year alone . as such , on top of the current backlog of asylum application that I just talk about — which now stand at over 170 , 000 — the Government could see the creation of yet another backlog , one of people stick in detention potentially await a flight to nowhere . that concern I . I want to comment on the subject of modern slavery and trafficking , because the Home Affairs Select Committee be currently in the middle of an inquiry into trafficking . I agree with all the comment that be make by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . take the example of a sex trafficking victim , perhaps trick by the right hon . Lady ' s analogy of the lover - boy model — a woman traffic from abroad into the UK to be rape by man for money . we on the Committee hear that this happen every day in almost every hon . member ' s constituency through the use of adult service website such as Vivastreet . as the Home Secretary confirm to I at the Home Affairs Select Committee last month , under the unamended Bill , if that woman come to the attention of the authority , she would be subject to arrest and deportation if she have be bring into the United Kingdom through illegal route . indeed , anyone subject to traffic or modern slavery in the UK who be transport here illegally would face a similar fate . in her evidence to the Home Affairs Select Committee inquiry on human trafficking , the right hon . member for Maidenhead provide a frank assessment of the Bill ' s likely consequence : " the Illegal Migration Bill risk people be leave in or consign to exploitation . they will be fearful of seek help , because the trafficker will use this legislation to control they far , and they win ' t trust the authority … I believe if the Illegal Migration Bill be enact as it be currently propose , it will leave more people in slavery unwilling to come forward to UK authority . " that be quite stark from the midwife of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , and one who have do so much to promote the United Kingdom as a beacon for tackle the scourge of modern slavery and trafficking . the Children ' s Commissioner have provide a similar assessment of the Bill ' s implication for child victim of modern slavery : " these victim will be incentivise to avoid seek support and help , out of fear of deportation . " it must be right that when a victim of trafficking or modern slavery be find , they be give the help and support they need , not detain and deport . that be why Lords amendment 6 and its consequential amendment must remain in the Bill , ensure that all traffic and modern slavery victim have access to the support and protection they need . I will now turn to the subject of child . the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham , who have extensive knowledge of this area , have raise a number of really important point that I hope the Minister will be able to respond to . as we know , the Illegal Migration Bill will overhaul our immigration law for the purpose — we be tell — of deter people who arrive via illegal route . I would say that the measure propose in the Bill be rather blunt , unforgive and undiscriminate , mean that anyone whose journey here be not state sanction will be subject to detention and deportation , regardless of whether they be flee war or be traffic . we be now debate the right and wrong of those proposal , and in this House , there be people who think those measure be absolutely the right thing to do and people who be oppose to they . however , the override message of Lords amendment 8 , 31 and 33 — one that should unify we all — be " leave child out of it . " the plea be : " do not scrap what we already have as modest safeguard against further harm and exploitation of vulnerable child . do not drop the exist time limit for detain they . do not bar they from access support provision for modern slavery victim . do not refuse to consider their claim for asylum , and for those child who arrive in the UK on their own and be take into care , do not mark their 18th birthday by issue they with a deportation notice , have refuse to consider whether they should be grant permanent sanctuary . " as lead child ' s organisation , include Barnardo ' s and the Children ' s Society , say : " it be cruel and simply unworkable to have look - after child spend their formative year in the UK without the government even consider their protection need . " while the Government have make a concession on the detention of unaccompanied child , I be concerned that what this actually amount to be that those child can apply for bail after eight day in detention , but there be clearly no guarantee they will be grant it . as have be say already , it be for a small cohort of child and it also require access to legal advice . lord amendment 8 , 31 and 33 do nothing more radical than preserve exist child protection , and those amendment should remain in the Bill . on Lords amendment 37 and 38 table by Baroness Lister , it should have be an absolute no - brainer to retain the 72 - hour limit on detain pregnant woman . when the prison and probation ombudsman conduct a review of the welfare of vulnerable people in detention in 2016 , he conclude : " I have not seek further evidence that detention have an incontrovertibly deleterious effect on the health of pregnant woman and their unborn child . I take this to be a statement of the obvious . " yet we have have to spend time in Parliament debate whether the Government should keep the cap on detain pregnant woman at 72 hour or be allow to detain they indefinitely . Bear in mind that , back in 2016 , the then ombudsman recommend that the detention of pregnant woman should end completely . it could never seriously be argue that remove the time limit for detain pregnant woman be necessary for deter illegal migration . we know that introduce the time limit do not prompt swathe of pregnant woman to make the dangerous channel crossing . indeed , it be reveal during the Bill ' s passage in the Lords that , " since January , no pregnant migrant woman have arrive in this country illegally . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 3 July 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 1011 . ] the organisation Women for Refugee Women point out that " the restriction place on pregnant woman ' s detention since 2016 have not have an ' incentivising ' effect for woman claim asylum in the UK . " while the benefit of detain pregnant woman indefinitely be hard to see , the cost be all too clear . the Royal College of Midwives point out : " there be incontrovertible evidence that pregnant asylum seeker have poor pregnancy and neonatal outcome and complicated pregnancy with increase morbidity and mortality … the detention of pregnant asylum seeker increase the likelihood of stress , which can risk the health of the unborn baby . " the Government introduce time limit on detain pregnant woman for a reason in the first place , and that reason have not change . on the concession that they have grant , which be that pregnant woman can be detain for no more than 72 hour without ministerial approval , which could then go up to seven day , as I understand it — perhaps the Minister can help I with this — that could result in a woman be detain , be release and then be detain , be release and be detain , because this do not say it be just a one - off . finally , I support Lords amendment 102 on safe and legal route . it be clear that give a two - month period for the Government to come back with a plan of implementation for safe and legal route be a very sensible measure . the Home Affairs Committee make it clear in our report that safe and legal route be one of the clear recommendation the Government should adopt if they seriously want to tackle the small boat problem . I also support Lords amendment 103 on the National Crime Agency and organise immigration crime enforcement , which I think be a very useful and helpful amendment , and Lords amendment 104 and 107 from the Archbishop of Canterbury on the 10 - year strategy on refugee and human trafficking , which I again think would help the Government in deal with the small boat problem . I will begin with Lords amendment 2 , which would remove the retroactivity provision that state that the Bill would apply to anyone who arrive on or after 7 March 2023 , which be the date that the Bill be introduce in the House . there be a good reason generally why we do not allow legislation to apply retrospectively : so that there be legal certainty and people be bind only by the obligation that apply at the time . I accept without reservation that the law would be in disarray , for example , if new criminal offence have retrospective effect and people find themselves criminalise for thing that they could not possibly have know to be unlawful at the time . I respectfully submit , however , that this be not that kind of point . there be no principled argument to be make . first , the Government make it clear that the date the Bill be introduce be the same date on which it would become effective . secondly , a person can not argue in any compelling way that they decide to make an illegal crossing to the United Kingdom in March because they believe that they might end up in a hotel in Southampton , but now that they know they might have end up go to Rwanda , they would not have make the illegal crossing . I be afraid that that argument do not work at all . I accept the Government ' s position that the only way in which the policy will have the desire deterrent effect be if it have retrospective effect , so that we do not create perverse incentive for people smuggler to surge the crossing immediately before the Bill receive Royal Assent . the second tranche of Lords amendment include those that the Immigration Minister identify as wreck amendment — amendment 1 , 7 , 90 and 93 — and I will deal with they collectively . lord amendment 7 seek to strike out clause 4 ( 1 ) ( d ) , which state that removal should take effect irrespective of whether there be a judicial review application . lord amendment 90 seek to strike out clause 52 , which state that interim order may not halt deportation . lord amendment 93 seek to strike out removal pende an age verification appeal . there be a wide point about those amendment . collectively , they seek to dilute the deterrent effect of all removal provision . whatever we disagree on in this Chamber concern current migration , we can probably achieve a consensus on one point : this situation will not get any easy to resolve . whether the UNHCR be correct in say that there be 100 million displaced people , or whether there be ten of million , the reality be that famine , climate change , flooding and conflict will result in more and more people leave their country of origin to try to come elsewhere . any nation that try to resolve the situation in its domestic arrangement will have to follow a strategy similar to the one that the Government be pursue . the first element of that strategy be to decide on a cap for admission and then — likely with UNHCR support in the future — to give proper consideration in advance to who should come under the quota scheme . the current scheme that be work very well in relation to Ukraine , Afghanistan and Hong Kong provide a good starting point . the second element be to deter all illegal migration by ensure , with only the narrow of exception , that an individual gain absolutely nothing from do this . the objective of the Illegal Migration Bill and , by extension , the Rwanda scheme be to remove illegal immigrant quickly without prejudice to their wide right to challenge the deportation order later , because the rationale be that speedy deportation deter other from come to the country . many eminent people agree with that proposition . as the former Supreme Court Justice , Lord Sumption , say in his foreword to Professor ekin ' recent paper for Policy Exchange : " this objective be frustrated if deportee be able to hold up their removal for year while their challenge go through potentially three tier of appeal follow by a petition to Strasbourg . the process commonly take year . " he continue by state that " whatever one think " of the Rwanda scheme , if " interim measure be available in case like this , it be probable that no legislative scheme for the prompt removal of illegal immigrant " — could ever " succeed . " my hon . friend be make a well - make argument , and she be right about those amendment from the Lords that be design to undermine the principle and practice of this Bill . would she extend to legal migration her sensible suggestion that the safe and legal route recommend by various people across the Chamber need to be cap ? we can not continue to grow our population to the tune of 600 , 000 a year without place unbearable pressure on our public service , make the provision of housing impossible and change the face of our country forever . I will come back on two point . first , under the Bill , annual quota will be decide upon with the consent of various local authority that will be responsible for accommodate those people , and that be the right approach . on illegal migration , people arrive through irregular route should not take precedence over those arrive lawfully through safe and legal route . we could not allow a system where one displace the right of the other , and that be a feature of this Bill . the second thing I want to talk about be the effect of judicial review . lord amendment 7 would permit judicial review . I can not improve on the language use by David Blunkett when he be Home Secretary , introduce Labour ' s flagship immigration Bill , the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 , which be support at the time by the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) . I want to refresh my memory of what he say on Second Reading , because it be a powerful part of his speech . he say : " at the moment the system be virtually unworkable . People can bring a judicial review during the process of the initial appeal , and when they reach the right to appeal to the tribunal they can judicially review the tribunal for not allow the appeal to the tribunal . they can then judicially review the tribunal ' s decision and they can judicially review whether they be entitle to go to the court of appeal follow failure at the tribunal . the whole system be riddle with delay , prevarication , and , in some case , deliberate disruption of the appeal process . then they can judicially review the decision on removal even when the appeal have be go through . " — [ Official Report , 24 April 2002 ; Vol . 384 , c . 355 . ] we have simplify the system a bit since then , but effectively he be right . he be right then to seek to effect removal after one right of appeal have be exhaust , and the Government be right now to aim for swift removal without judicial review hold everything up . my final point , briefly , be about the speech that the former Supreme Court Justice Lord Brown make on Second reading of this Bill in the Lords . he sit as a Cross - Bench peer , and he die on Friday . he say : " no doubt the Bill can be improve in various way , but we must recognise that almost every amendment we make to soften it can tend only to weaken its essential objective : stop the boat … we really must … give the Government the opportunity by this Bill finally to confront this most intractable of problem . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 10 May 2023 ; Vol . 829 , c . 1806 . ] I start by refer member to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests for the support I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project . despite their lordship ' good effort , this remain in my 18 - plus year in this place comfortably the bad piece of legislation I have see come to this House . that be not because I disagree with it — I have probably disagree with most stuff in my 18 and a bit year here — but because it be base on several bogus understanding of the truth . within it , there be a deplorable bias towards the inhumane . to start with Lords amendment 1 , we have an attempt to get the Government to do something massively radical : to comply with international obligation . the notion that we should not do that , or that we do not need to do that , be base upon the desire to depict the current situation — the boat situation and the asylum situation in the UK — as an emergency . I will come to that in a moment . the two likely consequence of the UK habitually choose to not comply with its international obligation be : first , that we become a pariah , and be see internationally as not a team player , and thereby we be less effective in all part of our policy around the world , whether economic , defensive or otherwise ; and , secondly , that other will copy we and , as a consequence , the whole system break down . I often hear member on the Government Benches say , " France be a safe country , why don ' t people stay there ? " . the simple answer to that is , " yeah , it be . so be Spain and so be Italy . " if we end up in a situation where other people copy we , the whole network break down and we end up in a desperate situation . if we care about our position internationally , we need to care about that . let we turn straight to the Government ' s justification for not comply with their international obligation , include issue to do with modern slavery and child detention , on which the Lords have make helpful amendment . their explanation be that the situation constitute an emergency . do it ? in the Home Secretary ' s word , we be currently be swamp by refugee . let we look at some fact to see whether either of those thing bear any scrutiny . as we speak , Germany take four time more asylum seeker than the United Kingdom , and France take 2 . 5 time more asylum seeker than the United Kingdom . if we be to add the United Kingdom back into the European Union for statistical purpose , just 7 % of asylum seeker would come to the UK and , per capita , the UK would be 22nd out of 28 . demonstrably , the United Kingdom have not face an especial problem . we be not be swamp , and such language be demeaning of this country and of the office of Home Secretary . the Government say , " ah , but it ' s different here , because we ' ve take in 250 , 000 ukrainian refugee as well as those come in through other route . " I be utterly proud that the United Kingdom have be among those country who have take in the most ukrainian refugee , but we have not take the most . Germany have take 1 million ukrainian refugee and , as I say , it still take four time more asylum seeker than we , and Poland have take 1 . 5 million ukrainian refugee . it appear that talk about our support for Ukraine and ukrainian refugee be an excuse for the Government in seek to avoid their international obligation . Britain ' s problem need to be put into overall context . the reality be that 70 % of the million of displace people and refugee on planet Earth flee either to a different region of their country or to a neighbouring country . a steadily decrease trickle of people end up at the end of the line — and , my goodness , the United Kingdom , over the channel , be the end of the line . again , for we to state that we face an especial emergency in term of the number of people come here be totally bogus . it be important to state that and put it on the record . I be astounded to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . I sometimes come into this place and think that I be in a parallel universe . I do not know whether he get out much , but if he speak to his constituent as often as I speak to mine , he will know that they do see this as an emergency . one hundred thousand people have cross the channel on small boat , with every one of they know that they have arrive here illegally , and he will know that we be spend £ 6 million a day on 300 hotel to accommodate they . if that be not a crisis or an emergency , I do not know what be . I will come to the emergency , which the right hon . Gentleman set out towards the end of his remark — the emergency cause by government incompetence in not clear the backlog . when we look at the number come to our shore — I be sure he know this as he have see the figure — we see that statistically , compare to other country of similar size and stature , the United Kingdom be not overwhelmed . what we be overwhelm by be the consequence of the Government ' s own incompetence . I will wager , dare I say it — I be not a bet man — that I speak to my constituent more than the right hon . Gentleman speak to his , and my constituent represent the value of the United Kingdom . they believe that it be right to provide sanctuary to those who present as refugee and that , in any event , even if those people be not refugee , we will only ever know that if we process they properly , which be what a competent , decent british Government would do . I have receive hundred of email from my constituent . do the hon . Member agree that the Bill will lead to more misery for thousand of refugee , cost taxpayer million and cause chaos to a system that be already on the brink of collapse ? yes , I think it will . I be visit a hostel for people seek asylum in this country a few month ago in Cumbria . one gentleman have be an interpreter for the british and american force in Afghanistan , and we have leave he behind . by hook or by crook he get himself here , and he have be wait more than 12 month for his case to be hear . he get to the stage where he almost do not care if he get kick out ; he just want a resolution . that be miserable . those people be get the blame , from this Government and some of their supporter , for the consequence of the Government ' s own failure and incompetence . that be shameful . I would be ashamed of that if I be sit on the Government Benches . I know that some be , to their credit . talk of shameful thing , let I move on to child detention and Lords amendment 8 . as at least one Government Member rightly say , one of the great achievement of the coalition Government be the ending of child detention under a conservative Prime Minister . those on the Government Benches should be proud of that . the Refugee Council estimate that the Government ' s proposal would potentially lead to 13 , 000 child be detain as a consequence of this legislation . the real question for the House — for the country , actually , but for member here in particular — be , do we see a child asylum seeker primarily as an asylum seeker to be deter or as a child to be protect ? if the answer be not the latter , I be sorry , but shame on you . an argument be make by some that if we do not detain child — by the way , teenager be child too , as I be a parent of several — we will create a pull factor . the fact be that the Joint Committee on Human Rights have demonstrate that there be no evidence for that whatsoever . even if there be some evidence for not detain child be a pull factor , in what moral universe would it be okay for the Government to use child as collateral to achieve their policy aim ? again , that be outrageous . on modern slavery and Lords amendment 6 and 56 , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who be no long in her place , make an outstanding speech . she introduce the modern slavery legislation as Prime Minister . this Government talk about enact many of the thing in this legislation as enact the will of the people and carry out their mandate . as a former Prime Minister , the right hon . Member have a mandate , which I be sure the whole House support , to deliver that modern slavery legislation . I be proud of that , as should she be . how do that mandate not trump the apparent mandate to put those victim of modern slavery at such terrible risk ? the simple fact be that if someone be a victim of trafficking and modern slavery , because of the Bill and the failure to accept the amendment put forward , that person ' s choice be to remain in exploitation , or go for prolonged detention or removal to Rwanda or some other country . for many victim of trafficking and exploitation , remain in exploitation will seem the least bad option . far from be an attempt to tackle evil gang , the Bill play into their hand . this be a trafficker charter . throughout the Bill we see the rhetoric of crisis , emergency and of our be overwhelmed . we be , indeed , overwhelmed — by the Government ' s epic incompetence . some 177 , 000 people be wait for an initial decision . those people do not want to be in hotel ; they want to be process . if the Government want to bring about a real deterrent , they would process people efficiently like other country somehow manage to do , and they would return the one who be not refugee . that would be a deterrent , but it be beyond the Government ' s competence . accord to the Government ' s own figure , of the top 10 nationality of people present as refugee here , 80 % be grant asylum . even the Government ' s own process accept that they be genuine refugee , even though other characterise they in terrible and unflattering way . some 83 % of they be from Sudan and 99 % be from Eritrea . that be crucial , because there be no provision in the Bill whatsoever for those people to come here safely . it be so important that we tackle the issue of safe route . a Government who be really serious in try to stop the boat would do carrot and stick , so to speak . the fact be this : desperate people will take dangerous route until safe route be available . if people have flee terror in whatever country — many be from the horn of Africa and have flee through the absolute hellhole that be Libya these day , and then cross the Mediterranean — then I be sorry , but we be not go to deter they from take a relatively short journey across the channel unless we provide safe route . that be why the Government need to put safe route on the face of the Bill . if they be try to solve this problem holistically , they would make sure that safe route be part of the Bill . briefly , on Lords amendment 9 , in the name of my noble friend Lord German — [ interruption . ] I be conclude — I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . Lord German ' s amendment would prevent people from remain in limbo . if the Government proceed with the Bill and can not remove arrival to Rwanda in time , the amendment would ensure that anyone who be still here after six month would be enter into the asylum system . that would be humane and would also prevent a great backlog . this be an emergency , but not compare with other country . there be an emergency in that there be a global refugee crisis , yet there have be zero attempt , in any mature way , to make an intelligent , informed response to that international emergency — the opposite , in fact . what that do be alienate our ally who might help we to tackle it . instead , we have an ill think out attempt to tackle one symptom . the political emergency here be the Government ' s desire to lash out , seek culture war point and blame desperate people for the Government ' s own incompetence . the underlying attempt throughout the Bill be to make the UK unattractive . it be stupid to think — [ interruption . ] I be finish — I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be stupid to think that the rest of the world do not hear , and that only potential asylum seeker hear that . it undermine Britain ' s reputation in the world . patriot care about how we be see around the world . that be why patriot oppose the Bill . finally , the percentage of people in this country convince by the Government ' s position on this issue be reduce by the day . they see it as a distraction from the fact that they can not afford to pay the rent or the mortgage , or to feed their kid . the ultimate tragedy of the Bill be that it completely ignore the override problem . it will not fix the symptom it identify and it will not even give the Government the political benefit they crave , which be the one thing in this debate that constitute justice . rise — it be quite important that we think of other and remember that , as I say , the debate finish at 5 pm . I call David Simmonds thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will endeavour to be swift and to the point . like the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , I must draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as someone who be sponsor by the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project — ramp — to provide research capacity . as the Minister outline , the UK have prove willing to rise to the challenge of the international refugee situation , with 550 , 000 people settle in the UK through humanitarian route . in 24 year in a local authority cover the area of Heathrow airport , I certainly have experience of be on the receive end of many different set of government policy — not just from the coalition and conservative Governments , but from Labour Governments , too — many of which sound very good when debate in this place but which do not always work in contact with the real world . I would express the concern that until we have a fully comprehensive asylum visa system , we will not have full control of the way in which we interact with the global refugee situation . I want to see this policy pass through Parliament and be implement in a way that work operationally to stop the boat and deliver all the other objective that member throughout the Chamber broadly support . there be clearly plenty of disagreement about the detail , but none of we wish to see the continuation of the cross - channel traffic in human misery and criminal activity that the Bill seek to address . I know that my constituent share the concern , beautifully express early , about the fact that we , as british people , believe in the fine old british tradition of queueing . when we see people use criminal mean to jump that queue at a time when our country be seek to be more compassionate through resettlement in a global world , we be concerned about that . I remain concerned about a number of aspect of how the Bill will operate in the real world . it be enormously positive that the court decide , have consider the matter , that the Rwanda policy be lawful and compatible with the UK ' s international human right obligation , but we can not provide sufficient evidence of the effectiveness of one element of our agreement with Rwanda . that element be one example of the thing that could , operationally , derail what we all agree be worthy objective in the Bill . I take part in the Joint Committee on Human Rights evidence session that consider modern slavery in detail , and that have convince I to follow the lead of my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) this evening . we need to ensure that we live up to the standard we have set for ourselves in this House , and that the positive obligation that much legislation , include the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Children Act 1989 , place on our public authority do not undermine the objective of the Bill . detention be a good example of that . I totally agree with what the Minister say about his approach to the detention of unaccompanied minor . a major challenge for Hillingdon Council be the arrival of unaccompanied child at Heathrow airport . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) will know that many of they be accommodate in his constituency , at Margaret Cassidy House and at Charville Lane child ' s home , both of which I visit . it be at the point of arrival that those child be at the great risk from trafficker . the right hon . Gentleman will remember example of trafficker arrive on Bath Road to collect girl whom they have target for traffic . we as the local authority be powerless to stop that , because there be no power of detention that we could use to keep those young people safe . in one case that I be aware of , Hillingdon recover a girl from the sex trade on the continent of Europe , after six month of track she from place to place . during that time , she suffer a great deal of abuse , which potentially could have be prevent if we have be able to intervene more swiftly at the beginning . I be entirely sympathetic to the Minister ' s motivation for introduce provision on that issue , but these question need to be answer : who will ensure that the place where those child be accommodate and detain be of an appropriate standard ? what discussion have take place with local authority , such as Hillingdon and Kent , to ensure that a secure estate , base perhaps on secure child ' s home , be available , so that the child come through the system can be appropriately accommodate ? what arrangement have be make with Ofsted — in my view , it be ofsted , rather than the chief inspector of prison , that need to regulate this — to ensure that regulation will give we confidence that the accommodation for child , and for family , be appropriate for child ? finally , I have ask this question many time , but I do not get the sense that we have reach an appropriate answer . the Bill set out how individual be to be deal with under the asylum and immigration process , but it do not take away the obligation on local authority under the Children Act , the child ( Leaving Care ) Act 2000 or the Modern Slavery Act , or the other many obligation on local authority . member will say , " let we pass this legislation and demonstrate that we be tough , and wish to stop the boat , " but in six month , will we be look at a slew of judicial review that say that the policy be in conflict with the obligation on local authority and the police under the Modern Slavery Act and the Children Act , and be therefore not effective ? if the Minister wish to enjoy the full confidence of all Conservative Members , and wish they to vote with the Government tonight and over the next few day , I urge he to address those point . literally decade of policy from government of all party have not quite manage to get to the heart of these issue . he must demonstrate that this policy will do that , and that it have properly cover all basis across government . he must demonstrate that the policy do not leave we vulnerable to find that the boat do not stop come ; that the frustration of the challenge continue ; and that people continue to die . this country wish to show that it will not walk on by and ignore the need of refugee , that we will be compassionate , and that we will prioritise our resource on international and global resettlement . I , too , want to focus on the issue of child . the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) discuss the coalition Government effectively ban the detention of child in 2014 , which we all welcome . I be part of the campaign to achieve that ban , because of my experience of the detention of child in Harmondsworth detention centre in my constituency . I visit those child , and when we explain to the world what they be go through , how they be traumatise and what impact that be have on they and their family , the world recoil . we decide we would never have such a regime again , but my fear be that , gradually and incrementally , we be revert to it . that be why I support Lords amendment 8 , 50 , 51 , 31 , 33 and 89 . first , I be concerned that we be bring forward legislation that make it inadmissible for unaccompanied child who come via the channel route to apply for asylum . yet 96 % of they , I think , actually get refugee status , which show what need they have . I be also worried about what happen to child who be detain . I be concerned that we be potentially revert to the brutal regime of the past . when child be detain in detention centre and even other accommodation , the mental health impact be gauge as extremely severe , and it be last . today , we have see the amendment that the Government have bring forward on the time limit for detention , increase it from 24 hour to eight day — as other have say , it be eight day before someone can apply for bail to a first - tier tribunal . my worry be that , in that very vulnerable period of their life , a child will be detain and trap in the system , and the issue then be , detain where ? I raise the use of Harmondsworth with the Minister , and he give I an assurance that that be not Government ' s intention or the ministerial intention . I be sure that it be not this Minister ' s intention , but Ministers and Administrations change . unlike with the 2014 legislative commitment that we get , I do not believe that government statement of intention be sufficiently strong to prevent we from revert , unfortunately , to the detention of child in unsuitable accommodation and even detention centre . the reason we support local authority take these traumatise child into care be that they have the range of expertise to provide they with the support they need . I be worried that we be revert to type ; time and again , we have explain in the House that the Home Office accommodation that have be provide be inadequate , as we have see as a result of the number of child who have go miss , some of whom have not even be find again . I do not want to delay the House , because other want to speak , but I feel that the Bill be a reversion to pre 2014 , and that be the result of the Government ' s failure to take into account the range of view express in this House and elsewhere . it be the most vulnerable who need our support — our succour and our kindness — the most . the child be the one who will probably suffer the most as a result of this legislation , and that be why I urge those in the other House to hold to their task of bring some light of humanity to the discussion of this issue . I hope they will hold to their amendment so that this appalling Bill can at least be in some way ameliorate . I rise to speak in support of the Government amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 2 , 12 , 20 and 22 and also Lords amendment 38 , on pregnant woman . I also want to touch on Lords amendment 104 , which I oppose . People in Southend West want a tough but fair policy on illegal immigration that stop people unfairly jump the queue , stop evil people smuggler and , above all , stop vulnerable people drown in the channel . those , in a nutshell , be the reason why I support this Bill , subject to the amendment I have just allude to . I reject entirely the characterisation we have hear from Opposition Members that we be , in some way , an ungenerous country . I believe we should all take pride in the UK ' s rich history of rehome some of the world ' s most vulnerable and persecute people . the Minister remind we that we have take more than 550 , 000 refugee from around the globe since 2015 — the high number since the second world war — include 100 , 000 Ukrainians , but people in Southend West do not think this generosity and humanitarian spirit should be extend to healthy young man from safe country who have pay people smuggler to help they illegally cross the channel . that be what the Bill be all about . the Minister remind we that about three quarter of people cross the channel last year be man over the age of 18 . from 2021 to 2022 , the number of indian national cross to the UK on small boat increase by over 900 % from 67 to 683 . India be a democratic country with its own space programme . More than 1 , 000 turkish citizen come to this country illegally last year , but Turkey be a safe NATO country to which almost 2 . 5 million british national a year go on holiday . there be no reason whatsoever why Indians and Turks should be come here illegally . there be scheme under which we would welcome they to come here legally . of course , this be deeply unfair on taxpayer and on those who come to this country legally . to put this point into perspective , the Government win a huge majority on a promise to level up this country , yet we now have a bizarre situation in which we be spend more each year on hotel to accommodate illegal migrant — estimate at £ 2 . 2 billion , or more accord to the shadow Minister — than the Government ' s entire budget for round 2 of the levelling up fund and three and a half time what we be spend on homelessness . this be unsustainable and deeply unfair on the vulnerable people in this country who need our support . we have hear it say that this be not an emergency . it will absolutely become an emergency . Lord Hague write of Africa and the middle east in the Times today : " if only one in twenty of the people of that region migrate by mid - century — surely a conservative estimate — there would be 140 million people on the move . " that would be a complete emergency , so our migration system must send a clear message that people will not be allow to come here illegally . the Lords have send we ream of amendment to consider , many of which be design to frustrate the will of the people who put we here and to kick the issue down the road . that lead I directly to Lords amendment 104 , in the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury . a 10 - year strategy be all fine and well , but we need action now . we see on our television screen that people be drown in the channel now . of course the Government be work very hard on a long - term strategy , because other country in Europe be face the same problem , hence they be work with France , Italy , Albania and the EU . I reject the approach suggest by Lords amendment 104 , as it be already happen and it be not address the emergency before we . however , I be pleased that the Government have accept some amendment , particularly on retrospection . there be a strong presumption in common law that statute do not take retrospective effect , most recently summarise by Lord Kerr in the Supreme Court in Walker v . Innospec Limited and other : " if we do something today … the law apply to it should be the law in force today , not tomorrow ' s backward adjustment of it . " in other word , retrospective law undermine our rule of law , which require that the law be capable of be know and enforce today . I understand why it be think that retrospective effect be need , but those reason do not apply now that the Rwanda issue need to be resolve by the Supreme Court . I be therefore very pleased that this sensible amendment have be take on board and that we will fall in line with this long - hold legal principle . the second issue relate to pregnant woman . obviously , protect they be vital , and we must do everything we can to ensure that vulnerable pregnant woman be not exploit or target by evil people smuggler . last year , few than 1 % of the illegal migrant who come to this country be pregnant , and I understand that this year the figure have be none . so we have to be incredibly careful that we do not create a perverse incentive that might inadvertently increase that number . we must be extremely aware that the people who would traffic woman to this country be utterly without moral , so we do not want to find ourselves in a position where woman become pregnant deliberately , or even bad be make pregnant against their will , in order to bypass detention rule . the Government ' s amendment allow we to protect vulnerable pregnant woman , ensure that they do not spend unduly long period in detention before they be process . it strike the right balance between treat these woman with dignity and compassion , and not create a perverse incentive that would target vulnerable woman . in conclusion , although our compassion in seek to help people may be infinite , the people of Southend know that our capacity to do so be finite . that capacity to help be fundamentally undermined if we do not stop the boat and we do not stop people enter this country illegally . I shall be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker , because we do not have much time , although there be a great deal I could say on this Bill . there could not be a great contrast than the one between the cold , calculate speech we have just hear from the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) and the humanitarian approach take by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) in try to defend international law and humanitarian principle in what we do . this Bill be appal in so many way , but it be walk we rapidly away from the european convention on human right and , with it , the European Court of Human Rights ; from the 1951 Geneva convention protect the right of asylum ; from the 1954 convention protect people who be suffer from statelessness ; from the 1989 convention on the right of the child ; and from the 2005 trafficking of child convention . that be why I strongly support Lords amendment 1 , which be introduce by Baroness Chakrabarti to try to reverse this whole process . if we walk away from international convention that this country knowingly and willingly sign up for — indeed , we draft many of they — who be we then to criticise Turkey , Hungary , Poland , Russia or any other country where we believe there be a breach of those convention right ? what protection would we be offer to people we know be already be badly treat and whose only protection be the right that come through those convention ? the Government be cynically and deliberately do this . I attend the Council of Europe as one of our representative , and I have to say that Members of the Council of Europe from many country — these be not necessarily people of the left , by any manner of mean — be astonish at how Britain be walk away from all these convention that it promote in the past . the response from those at the Council of Europe be consternation about why we be do that . it be consternation at the endless attack on the European Court of Human Rights and on the european convention on human right , which protect the right of people in this country as well as other country around the world . this do not all come from nowhere ; it come from the hostile environment , deliberately create by the Conservative party and the coalition Government , which have such a devastating effect on the Windrush generation . it come from constant medium reference to the " asylum wave " and the horrible story that be write about people seek asylum . as the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale , my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and other have point out , the number of asylum seeker in Britain be low compare with that in the rest of Europe , and the number in Europe be low compare with that in the rest of the world . why be there 70 million people around the world not in a place they can call their own home ? the answer be : war ; human right abuse ; and environmental degradation . what be we go to do ? be we go to put up barbed wire everywhere , send gunboat everywhere , in order to try to deter desperate people ? or be we go to do something about it by try to improve the live condition of people in place that they be try to flee from and improve their human right situation ? I have meet people in Calais , and I have meet people in this country who have come from Calais . believe I , they be desperate . there be people who have manage to walk , almost , from Eritrea or Afghanistan . they have cross the Mediterranean and other sea and go through immense danger . they be look for a place of safety — and what do we offer they ? nothing more than a hostile environment and be send to Rwanda . should we not look at this thing a bit differently ? should we not look at it from a humanitarian point of view ? should we not also give refugee here the right to work ? we have 100 , 000 vacancy in the NHS alone and a skill shortage in almost every industry , and we have highly skilled , highly intelligent people who could no long stay in the country they come from and be look for a place of safety . perhaps we could be slightly more humanitarian and decent about this and accept that we have a responsibility . we should accept that our country be enrich by those who have come here with their skill , knowledge and determination to create a well society , rather than pass this tawdry little Bill , which may well be reject again by the Lords — I hope it be — and by the court , know full well that even if the Home Secretary ' s dream of send so many people to Rwanda be carry out , they could not be house or process there . can we not just turn the dial round for once and , instead of maintain the pretence that this country be always friendly to people who be desperate , let we prove it and show that we be supportive and welcoming of desperate people who want to contribute to our community ? I will speak to Lords amendment 2 , 12 , 20 and 22 , on arrangement for removal , to Lords amendment 31 , 33 and 35 to 38 , on arrangement for those under the age of 18 and for pregnant woman , and to Lords amendment 102 , on safe and legal route . where the Government have give some ground on the Lords amendment and enter into discussion , I feel confident that the main ethos of the Bill be still there . I be really keen to ensure that . I do not want to see the Bill water down . I like what I see when it leave this place , and I do not want to see it weaken and make unable to deliver . on under - 18 , my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) make the good point that we do not want a situation where there be a perverse incentive for young people to be send by themselves . that be concern to both of we . age verification need to be robust . we know that there be evidence of adult — particularly adult man — pretend to be under 18 when they be not . no one in this House want to see child detain , and that be never the Government ' s intention , but at the same time we can not allow an opening for people who be not under 18 to get special treatment . the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , say that there have not be enough time to scrutinise the Bill . this be an urgent situation . the Bill be introduce early this year . it appear to have be stick in the other place for a huge amount of time ; I understand that they have be up until 6 in the morning look at it . I do not know how much long the right hon . Lady would like this place and the other place to scrutinise this piece of legislation that need to be implement urgently . I find it deeply frustrating when I see individual who have never have to live with the consequence of uncontrolled mass migration and illegal migration , and people who have never have to talk to constituent who be desperately concerned about the situation — they may have hotel in their constituency that have be adversely impact by it — opine and moralise about what they think be right and demonise anyone who support a Bill such as this . as I have say many time before , the House of Lords should tread carefully , because it be unelecte . it be oh so tempting to moralise on this deeply complex issue without engage in any plan , and there be no plan from the other House . Lords amendment 102 would introduce uncapped safe and legal route . what would happen if we have alternative safe and legal route that people could apply to ? if they be uncap , they would fill up incredibly quickly , and if they be cap , the cap would be meet incredibly quickly and we would be back at square one . we would still have people enter our country illegally . what would we do then ? that be not a plan . let I turn to labour ' s five - point plan of vagary and platitude — because that be what it be . all we hear about be safe and legal route . then there be the cross - border police force — as if that have not already be look into . Labour member say , " we have to do more to talk to France " . again , it be as if we be not already do that . it be as if the Prime Minister do not already have a good relationship with the President of France ; he have , but we still be where we be . ultimately , this be an incredibly difficult situation . this can only work with the Rwanda plan . I hope that , when it come to that Supreme Court judgment , the Rwanda plan will get the green light . however , the Government need to plan for the eventuality that that might not happen . there need to be a plan b . we can not put all our egg in the Rwanda basket . I be confident that the Rwanda plan can make a significant contribution to tackle this problem , but I and many colleague also believe that there need to be a plan b . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry , but I will not be take any intervention . ultimately , what Brexit be about in many respect be take back control of our border , and control the migration system . if it get to a point where we feel that , even have deliver Brexit , the popular sovereignty of the people ' s wish to decrease net migration and tackle illegal migration robustly be impossible , it be only right that we then look at the legal infrastructure and the different arrangement that this country be subject to . we must listen to the british people , the vast majority of whom do support this Bill . they want to see it enact and I will be support the Government every step of the way . I really hope that , before we get to the summer recess , this vital Bill get Royal Assent . when the Minister be first appoint , I think that he be largely go along with the Home Secretary ' s language and policy on refugee and asylum seeker out of a sense of loyalty and collective responsibility . but as this Bill have progress , it appear from the statement he have make in the Chamber and the response he have give to question and to Westminster Hall debate that he really have drink the Kool - Aid . I think he genuinely believe the Government ' s rhetoric : that this country be be invade , that people who come here flee war , persecution and famine be actually economic migrant on the make , and that outright hostility and denial of their basic human right be the only way to dissuade they from come here . so hostile do he want the environment to be , he will not even allow a splash of colour and cartoon on the wall of the family reception centre . it be more than disappointing . it be worry that the Government ' s attitude seem to be that the way to stop people come here from country where they be at risk of oppression and human right abuse be to create an environment that be at least as hostile as the place from which they be flee . that would explain the Government ' s opposition to Lords amendment 1 . the safeguard that it provide should otherwise be see as absolutely essential , and make it clear that nothing in the Bill require the Home Secretary to break with international human right law and the treaty and convention that this country have be sign up to for decade . nowhere in the conservative manifesto be there a commitment to take the UK out of these convention , so their Lordships have every right to continue to press this and similar amendment during the next stage of their proceeding . the Chair of the Justice Committee say early that this be an incorporative rather than an interpretive amendment . perhaps the Lords will come back with something in lieu that will be more attractive to the more level - head element on the conservative back Benches . but then perhaps that be what the Government have be look for all along — the Government want a fight with the House of Lords , they want a fight with the Supreme Court and the Home Secretary certainly want an excuse to withdraw from the european convention on human right . those perhaps be the real purpose of the Bill , and the impact on refugee and asylum seeker be really only secondary . it be ridiculous that we be be ask to consider these amendment barely 24 hour after the Lords give the Bill its Third Reading . it show the Government ' s contempt for both Houses of Parliament . the explanatory note and the amendment document be only available through the Vote Office at 7 . 45 last night , as the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say , and yet the Government be propose 58 motion to disagree with the Lords in their amendment this evening . if that be not pick a fight , I be not sure what be . well , let we have that fight . let we vote on all 58 of they and then see how desperate the Government and their Back Benchers be to get this Bill on to the statute book . almost all the amendment make in the Lords speak to a basic humanity and respect for the rule of law and the fundamental principle of the global asylum system . that be essentially what the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury ' s amendment 104 call for . Government Members may wish to wish those Lords away , but they be suppose to support the House of Lords and the system that exist . if they want to pick away at it , that be fine , because I do not think there should be a House of Lords in its current form . I do not understand the hon . Gentleman ' s argument . on the one hand , Opposition Members say that the Government be not do enough , that they need to deal with the backlog , take action and be more decisive and radical . when the government do become decisive , however , we be tell that they be rush the House , that they be go too fast and that we need more time , more machination , more prevarication and more delay . the Government be go about this exactly the wrong way , as my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry say early in one of her intervention . many Lords amendment , especially those from the Lord Bishops , propose way to deal with the backlog and provide safe and legal route . those be the amendment that the Government want to vote against . in their increasingly desperate and craven pander to what have become the Government ' s electoral base , and to those element on their Back Benches who have be return to this House by that electoral base , the Government seem increasingly prepared to walk away from or even rip up convention and treaty that past conservative Governments and Ministers once have a hand in draft . once again , they be use their majority to simply override the consider proposal from a House of Lords that they nevertheless want to continue to pack with their donor , crony and assorted time - serve loyalist . among those amendment be yet another Dubs amendment , Lords amendment 8 , under which unaccompanie child would essentially continue to have the right to claim asylum in the United Kingdom and the Home Secretary would not be able to declare they inadmissible . that be what the Home Secretary want to be able to do — to declare young child inadmissible for asylum and leave they essentially in a kind of limbo in the UK until they be old enough to be send back to where they come from , or perhaps to Rwanda or anywhere else that the Government can pay enough money to and hopefully get a court to declare be safe . all that be suppose to have a deterrent effect and make the UK a less attractive place to seek sanctuary , but it be not work . the Bill have fail at its first hurdle . clause 2 of the Bill be suppose to retrospectively apply its provision to the day it be introduce to the House , 7 March 2023 , and that be suppose to start to stop the boat . that be go to create the great deterrent effect , and it simply have not work . the Government be dress up their proposal in lieu of Lords amendment 2 as some sort of grand compromise , but in fact they be simply acknowledge the reality that backdate the Bill be not work and maintain the clause would only create a great backlog of case for processing , at even great expense to the public purse . of course , it would be well if many of the power grant , and duty require of the Home Secretary , by the Bill do not come into force at all . the Lords be not content with Lord Paddick ' s amendment to decline to give the Bill a second reading when it be first debate in their House , but there be still an opportunity to stop this Bill , perhaps in its entirety . there be mechanism through double insistence or further amendment in lieu to dramatically reduce , delay or even halt the provision of this Bill . the SNP have never take seat in the House of Lords , and I hope it never will , but for Opposition Members in particular who defend the role that it play in the UK ' s constitution , surely this be the time to call for it to play that role to the full extent . the Government have no mandate for the Bill and no mandate to undermine human right agreement that have underpin the world order since 1945 . if the Lords will not stand up on those issue , then what be even the point of the House of Lords ? if the Government be so committed to get this Bill through , they have the Parliament act at their disposal , or they can put their proposal to the public in a general election . however , in any future general election I be confident that people in Glasgow North will continue to vote to be part of a country and a society that recognise the duty we have to the poor and most vulnerable , that reciprocate the hospitality and sanctuary show to generation before we who leave our country for other shore , and that say , " refugee be welcome here . " if that country be not the United Kingdom , it will be an independent Scotland . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Andrew Stephenson Scott Mann Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Liz Twist the House divide : Ayes 303 , Noes 228 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . lord amendment 2 disagree to . clause 4 - disregard of certain claim , application etc Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 6 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Andrew Stephenson Scott Mann Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Marion Fellows Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 303 , Noes 227 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 6 disagree to . lord amendment 7 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 8 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Andrew Stephenson Scott Mann Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 299 , Noes 228 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 8 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 9 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 228 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 9 disagree to . Lords amendment 12 disagree to . lord amendment 20 and 22 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( o ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 2 , 12 , 20 and 22 . after clause 6 - restriction on removal destination : LGBT person Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 23 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Steve Double Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Liz Twist the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 231 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 23 disagree to . clause 10 - power of detention Lords amendment 30 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 31 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Liz Twist the House divide : Ayes 290 , Noes 242 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 31 disagree to . lord amendment 32 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 33 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Liz Twist the House divide : Ayes 299 , Noes 227 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 33 disagree to . lord amendment 34 to 36 disagree to . amendment ( a ) and ( b ) propose in lieu of Lords amendment 31 , 35 and 36 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Robert Syms Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Caroline Ansell Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Liz Twist the House divide : Ayes 284 , Noes 242 . question accordingly agree to . amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 31 , 35 and 36 . lord amendment 37 and 38 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( e ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 37 and 38 . clause 11 - period for which person may be detain Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 39 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Craig Tracey Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Marion Fellows Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 300 , Noes 229 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 39 disagree to . lord amendment 40 to 49 disagree to . clause 16 - transfer of child from Secretary of State to local authority and vice versa Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 50 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Marion Fellows Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 294 , Noes 228 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 50 disagree to . clause 21 - Provisions relate to removal and leave Lords amendment 51 to 55 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 56 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Theresa May John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 285 , Noes 243 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 56 disagree to . lord amendment 57 to 67 disagree to . clause 38 - serious harm suspensive claim : interpretation Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 73 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gavin Newlands Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 227 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 73 disagree to . Lords amendment 74 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 73 and 74 . clause 52 - Interim Remedies Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 90 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Jo Churchill Fay Jones Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 295 , Noes 228 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 90 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make to the word so restore to the Bill . clause 55 - decision relate to a person ' s age Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 93 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Jo Churchill Fay Jones Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 296 , Noes 220 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 93 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 95 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Jo Churchill Fay Jones Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gavin Newlands Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 295 , Noes 220 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 95 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 95 . after clause 58 - Duty to establish safe and legal route Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 102 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gavin Newlands Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 282 , Noes 234 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 102 disagree to . after clause 60 - organise immigration crime enforcement Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 103 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 222 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 103 disagree to . second out , round 17 . after clause 60 - ten - year strategy on refugee and human ' traffic Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 104 . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 290 , Noes 222 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 104 disagree to . lord amendment 107 disagree to . lord amendment 3 to 5 , 10 , 11 , 13 to 19 , 21 , 24 to 29 , 68 to 72 , 75 to 89 , 91 , 92 , 94 , 96 to 101 , 105 , 106 , and 108 to 114 agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1 , 6 to 9 , 23 , 30 , 32 to 34 , 39 to 67 , 93 , 102 to 104 , and 107 ; that Robert Jenrick , Scott Mann , Shaun Bailey , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Gerald Jones and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Robert Jenrick be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 ( s . I . , 2023 , no . 665 ) , date 15 June 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 19 June , be approve . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services that the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing ( high - risk Countries ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 ( s . I . , 2023 , no . 704 ) , date 26 June 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) question agree to . adjournment ( Summer , Conference and Christmas Recess ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Thursday 20 July 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 4 September 2023 ; at its rise on Tuesday 19 September 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 16 October 2023 ; and , at its rise on Tuesday 19 December 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 8 January 2024 . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Liaison Committee Motion make , that , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 145 , the Liaison Committee shall have power to appoint specialist adviser in relation to its inquiry on strategic thinking in Government . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) object . increase Employment : Training Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) I have two main point to land . the first be that the good way for someone to get work - ready and improve their life chance be to get a job and progress in the job they have . the second be that we need a clear - eyed look at exist training provision , include the apprenticeship levy , to provide thousand of job in small and medium - sized enterprise , which be the backbone of the country . I be think particularly of the job and business in the Stroud district . many moon ago , a boss tell I that I have bouncebackability . that be a polite and positive way of note that I get up every time I mess up and fall flat on my face , which be pretty often . that boss change my life . be a free school meal kid from a chaotic single - parent family and leave home at 15 mean you basically get write off . the statistic say that you be in trouble , but that do not have to be a give , as my story will testify . I start work as a secretary . over time , the firm see something in I and get I into a training programme . I attend night school and law school at weekend ; it take a long time , but I qualify as a solicitor . I have no debt and I have year of experience under my belt . however , I hide all of that for a long time , because I be embarrassed . Most lawyer go to university , and Tony Blair have ram it into all of we that university be the only way forward . I be wrong to be embarrassed and he be wrong to have such a narrow focus . I do not understand that all my job — paper round , supermarket checkout girl , aerobics teacher and spin instructor , which be all do to pay law school fee — and year at the coalface of work have equivalent value to a degree . I be wrong , and I be happy to admit it , because I have bouncebackability . the good way to be work - ready and life - ready — to grasp the chance that come across your desk — be to actually go to work . social mobility be not just about poor kid get into Oxford ; for workless family , a parent hold down any job will improve the social mobility of their child . become a manager or retrain into a second career be social mobility in action . sadly , however , snobbery about further education and have no degree continue to this day . to see that we need only look at Carol Vorderman ' s attack on my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) and his wife , where she say in a tweet : " not a degree in sight … who ' d employ they ? " . that be the late example of nonsense ; dismiss a Minister who work tirelessly for the armed force and veteran for not have go to university be bad enough , but be deliberately condescend about the life of million of people who do not go to university be unforgiveable . I use to admire Carol Vorderman a lot , before she decide to eat so much political hate for breakfast to get social media hit . now , sadly , I just feel sorry for she . thankfully , this Government recognise the quality of life that employment and training can bring , and it be absolutely at the heart of our growth strategy . despite the global economic turmoil , the UK still have its low unemployment since the 1970 , at 3 . 9 % , and the fourth high employment rate in the G7 . I give credit to the Stroud jobcentre and the Department for Work and Pensions team , which the Secretary of State visit . they be do an incredibly amount locally , take a bespoke , careful look at how we help people off long - term sick and into job . in the Sun yesterday , Matthew Elliott , the president of the Jobs Foundation , write about how secure a full - time salary job cut the risk of fall into poverty by 90 % . he explain : " productive and meaningful employment give we an opportunity to learn and develop our skill . it allow we to afford a well standard of living … and bring structure and routine which help mental health and wellbeing . " at a time when a fifth of people be not confident about their financial position , million rely on their job . job , training and in - work development be therefore the gold standard . I set up the all - party parliamentary group on the future of employability to explore this issue far after a decade of discussion about education with my friend Ronel Lehmann , who found Finito , which help young people get work - ready . the APPG have also be back by the Institute of the Motor Industry and the Wise Group , which be incredibly helpful in think through how we can make people get into job and stay in they . I turn to my second issue : I believe that we need a clear - eyed look at exist training provision to help sme and to help people stay in job . the Government be steal a march on create lifelong learning opportunity . there be a range of training programme , include skill bootcamp , sector - base work academy programme — swap — the Multiply programme support adult numeracy , and free skill for job course . returnship be basically all of the above along with apprenticeship , but for people over 50 return to work or seek a career change . however , I have a challenge for the Minister . I do not believe that we need new - fangle policy or legislation . we have everything we need . I do not want any more fancy - pant new scheme ; we need to reform the one we have . we need to accept that good product such as the apprenticeship levy require change to make they business friendly . we should not scrap they but improve they . take returnship , for example . More than 500 , 000 over - 50 have step away from the workplace post pandemic , so I completely understand the focus on that age group , but with the rise of technology such as artificial intelligence , it will be people in their 30 and 40 who may need to change employment . let we tweak that policy and see who else we can help . so much depend on the efficiency of the apprenticeship levy . I listen carefully to organisation such as the Federation of Small Businesses , to business such as Renishaw and BorgWarner in my constituency that have apprentice , and to local company that desperately want apprentice . many feel that the system be just not work for they . I appreciate that this be strictly a Department for Education issue , but it be crucial to employment , so I be grateful that the Minister for Employment will be respond to the debate . every apprenticeship be a job with bell on , and it so often lead to a long and meaningful career . it be also cheap to the taxpayer , give that the Government have to write off 44 % of student loan in 2021 - 22 . the DWP and the Treasury be grapple with the issue of economic inactivity and the million on out - of - work benefit . I respectfully believe that , along with the Department for Education , they need to take a keen interest in the apprenticeship levy and listen to what Stroud district employer , the Association of Colleges and chamber of commerce all over the country be tell we . it can not be right , as ukhospitality point out , that one of my local pub can not transfer its levy to another pub in the same chain , and that the levy will just disappear back into the Treasury if it be not use . we can make change to make this thing work well for business . let I turn to some clever bit . I can not take credit for they ; they come from the brain at Policy Exchange — I recommend the report by Iain Mansfield and Toby Hirst , " reform the Apprenticeship Levy " — and from my local college , SGS Stroud , which ask I to cover many of Policy Exchange ' s recommendation . before I come to my recommendation , I will outline a few point for we to have in the back of our brain . over the last five year , £ 4 . 3 billion have be raise by the levy but then not spend on apprenticeship . a recent report by UCAS and the Sutton Trust find that 430 , 000 student be interested in apprenticeship but only 5 , 000 a year be start degree - equivalent course . I have a university technical college in my patch , which be start by my predecessor , Neil Carmichael . I go there with Lord Baker . we have its student — young woman science , technology , engineering and math student — up here this week say that they be desperate for apprenticeship but they can not find one . these be young people with brilliant mind . we have to get they into the job that they want . we know that learn on the job be attractive to people of all age . learn at an old stage in life in an apprenticeship , so that we can earn and learn , be crucial to those of we with family and mortgage who need or want a career change . yet unfortunately , the total number of apprenticeship start have go down to 349 , 000 in 2021 - 22 , which be significantly below the 393 , 000 in 2018 - 19 , and low than the high of 500 , 000 . therefore , while the quality have definitely go up , the start be something that we need to look at , because they matter . the number of start in sme have fall by almost 50 % , but small employer all over the shop , many of which I speak to locally , want to train up their own worker . as Policy Exchange explain in detail in its report , the requirement to pass English and Maths at level 2 , which be a gcse equivalent , mean that somebody can be bar from achieve an apprenticeship qualification in bricklaying , childcare or it due to a lack of achievement at school , which may have be year or decade ago . we desperately need these worker . I be fight campaign about childcare worker , so what be happen at the moment be madness . I be very take by what my hon . friend be say about the ordinariness — if such a word exist — of the training need . in my own constituency , which the Minister have be kind enough to visit , tourism and hospitality be the major employer . I see on an almost daily basis employer in hotel , pub and restaurant talk about how they be try to offer employment to the young as a first job , to those in middle age who want something more flexible , to those who be return to the workforce at an old age , and — I say this as the Minister for Employment be here — increasingly to those who be perhaps on the edge of employment in conventional setting . a little more effort and a bit of help from the Department for Work and Pensions make they suitable for the work environment . do my hon . friend agree that the package and the help that the Government offer need to be applicable in those very ordinary and routine setting ? I absolutely do agree , and I welcome the intervention . the reality be that talk about these everyday job — job that we desperately need in every single one of our constituency — be key to impress on the Government why these change be need . the bureaucracy and the pain in the neck that come with try to work through the apprenticeship levy be actually put off quite a lot of small business . they do not have the extra department to do the paperwork for they . however , Policy Exchange and I have some idea about that . there be load of recommendation in the report , but I have pick out a few that would really push forward on this . the first would be to transform the levy into a growth and skill levy . that would allow employer to spend up to 25 % of fund on high - quality employer - relevant skill training , include short and more flexible course . on my hon . friend ' s point , this be about flexibility for everyday business and everyday people . secondly , we want to see a £ 3 , 000 incentive for every young apprentice train by an SME to help support small business with off - the - job training cost . we also think that there need to be course finish bonus to make sure that we encourage learner to go all the way through . the adult learning budget be a fraction of the tertiary education budget , so I would like to see some funding make available for that . I would view it as level up skill and job around the country . thirdly , we need to create SME role and hub at college and growth hub to support sme in deal with the bureaucracy and the recruitment of apprentice . we have regional school commissioner , so why not a regional apprenticeship facilitator — an RAF ? I be sure the actual RAF will have something to say about that , but why can we not provide these regional support system ? fourthly , we could abolish the apprenticeship minimum wage , with all apprentice to be pay the national minimum wage for their age . I recognise that that be a Treasury matter and that we be not flush with money in this country — nor indeed be any country in the world right now — but in financially constrain time youngster will choose a job in a supermarket that pay more than an apprenticeship . that be not only because they need the cash , but because apprenticeship be hard graft . we need to reward they — it will help all of we . I would also like to see the immigration shortage occupation list link to skill training . employer should be able to use the levy to fund qualification to help they to train up local talent instead of be force to rely on immigration . I would like to know what the Minister , with his employment hat on , think of those proposal . will he tell we about what DWP be do to use employment to improve the life chance of people of all age , and to make the UK ' s exist training provision work for small and medium - sized business ? I want training and education to work for work . before the Minister respond , I will make a short note on work placement . the APPG on the future of employability be look at how we can increase the number of work placement available and allow people to gain experience at any time of their life . a constituent tell I today that his daughter have an incredible work placement last week at Steller Systems in Nailsworth . it be a naval architecture company , so that be quite cool . she have a brilliant time learn with the staff in a highly specialist area ; they do not need to give their time , but they do , and she will no doubt benefit from that for the rest of her career . we need to normalise those opportunity throughout the country . on a final note , there be some empty Stroud noticeboard at Lansdown Hall during the pandemic , which be cover in the local newspaper . one of they say : " the good way to learn anything be by do it . model some clay , carve a piece of wood — or a carrot ! Sculpture can be make out of anything , I think it ' s a question of find a material and visual language that speak to you . " I say , " over to you , Minister , to sculpt your response . " good news today : vacancy be down , employment be up , economic inactivity be down and my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) have bring forward a crucial debate that could not be more timely . we start from a situation where we have create over 5 , 450 , 000 apprenticeship since May 2010 . that be an astonishing figure , well over 5 million , and it be something to be celebrate . however , I take the tone of my hon . friend ' s debate to be both a celebration of what the Government have do , rightly laud our effort to get more people into employment , a celebration of the apprenticeship levy and the clear success it have bring to this country , and a desire to do well . that be something that I utterly endorse . I be fortunate that I be respond for only one Department . I think I would probably need to respond on behalf of the Treasury , the Department for Education , the Department for Business and Trade and various other Departments that my hon . Friend rightly cite , but , bluntly , I be happy to set out the position as good I can . I endorse what she say about the Policy Exchange report , which be eloquent and well - make and make some very good point . she and I have also speak in the past to the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who only a couple of month ago bring forward a specific Education Committee report look at further education and post - 16 education , all of which should be note by the House . it be unquestionably the case that upskille our workforce be the most important thing . we need to do that not least because we be try to reduce unemployment and improve social inclusion , productivity and progression . I make two visit to the beautiful constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) a little while back to see the work that be do by the DWP in his part of the world . I be on the phone to they this afternoon in respect of case in Ynys M ô n and the work that our hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) be do to try to deal with the issue in Llangefni . the staff there be fantastically commit to transform the outcome that we all hope for . I be also privileged to visit the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stroud , to meet Tom Robinson from the business Adaptavate and go around his factory . that be in my former life as a pension Minister ; I then enjoy a brief 49 - day holiday as a Back Bencher before return in this present role , where I hope I can contribute some further matter . I simply want to compliment the Minister on his visit to we , for the work that he do there and for his pronunciation of Welsh place name . when I have to secure the survival of the Amlwch jobcentre , that be a particular challenge , but my mum be a Llewellyn and grow up in the Tywi valley , so I have some Welsh in I beyond the ability to order two beer in Welsh . the jobcentre in Stroud do a great job . I will make two point before I get into the nut and bolt of the submission from my hon . friend the Member for Stroud . I be also proud to call my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) and his wife , Felicity , friend . they have very much be abuse by other over the last few day . my hon . friend be right to cite Ronel Lehmann , an old friend of mine who have do great work with Finito and in create opportunity . I have over the last few month meet the Confederation of British Industry , the Federation of Small Businesses , all the key business organisation , and , most importantly , ukhospitality . we be try our hard to drive forward true change to ensure that we get proper job opportunity create to fill the vacancy that clearly exist in the hospitality industry up and down the country . I be privileged to meet all the lead player in the hospitality industry last week , on 4 July . they come to the Department for Work and Pensions , lead by our right hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Alun Cairns ) , who chair a relevant appg , to see how we could flex the employment offer there . I look forward to be before my hon . friend ' s appg on the future of employability , which I be book in to do in September — that be in the diary . it be unquestionably the case that although the Government have commit £ 1 . 3 billion this year to fund a range of opportunity design to raise skill level and , subsequently , social mobility , and that a huge amount of money have be invest in the national skill fund , we be also try to remove barrier that prevent people from progress — be it through universal credit or the in - work progression that we know be so vital , or through the utilisation of the apprenticeship levy and the skill that be there . it be difficult for I , in my humble position as a junior Minister , to articulate that there will be widespread change to the apprenticeship levy , but I believe that we should support the institution that it be , while ask ourselves how we can improve and enhance the offer . my hon . friend set out a number of particular recommendation , one of which be familiar to I , because I have meet Punch Pubs , Greene King , Budweiser , Heineken , Molson — all the big player in hospitality . they all make the simple point that they pay the apprenticeship levy but can not then transfer that to the individual publican in their franchised pub up and down the country — no matter which constituency — so that they can employ an apprentice . that seem to I to be something that the Government could look at to see how they could flex that on an ongoing basis . my hon . Friend also raise the brilliantly name regional apprenticeship facilitator — the RAF of the modern era — and she make a fair point : every one of we have , in our constituency up and down the country , a regional school commissioner who look after our region and drive forward excellence in education in that way . why would one not try to facilitate that for apprenticeship ? on the £ 3 , 000 incentive , I bow to other who know the particular in more detail . on the abolishment of the apprenticeship minimum wage and harness that to the Treasury - lead national minimum wage for their age , that be a matter that I be sure my hon . friend will take up with the Treasury . what I will do , however , be ask my colleague at DFE , HMT and the Department for Business and Trade to respond to my hon . friend ' s individual point in write so that she get the detailed answer on how she can drive forward ongoing change , particularly in the light of the APPG that she run with other . it be fair to say that there be a gap we have to acknowledge between the amount of money raise from the apprenticeship levy and the actual spend . how can this country squeeze that gap to achieve the outcome we all so willingly seek in our constituency ? I certainly hope that that be one of the major thing press upon I . the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester , feel passionately that there must be enough entry - level apprenticeship on an ongoing basis . other have also make that point . I have have the opportunity to visit South Essex College with my hon . friend the Members for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) to see the benefit of t - level , which be transformational , and other country be copy they . there be no doubt that we should be do more in that space and have great opportunity to do so . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Stroud that our over - 50 offer have to get well . she will know that we have 37 over - 50 champion in each region of the country , pioneer and drive forward real change in the attitude of employer and co - worker to old worker — some of we have inexplicably reach the age of 50 and need to ensure a supportive approach to that . there be no doubt that we need to drive forward the way in which employer look at employment . why would a particular employer pay somebody to provide a service when the Department for Work and Pensions will provide training for free through a skill bootcamp , a sector - base work academy , returneeship and all manner of other thing ? we exist up and down the country in over 700 location , in every constituency . I be honour to go to the Canvey Island jobcentre recently with the Whip on duty , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , and those who work there do a fantastic job of train people up . it be a free service to local employer , and it can be from one week up to 12 week . we want more employer to sign up to take people in this way , and we would like more employer to sign up to t - level as well . there be no doubt whatsoever that we need to do more in that space . the childcare reform that my hon . friend the Member for Stroud pioneer — I know she have be a frequent visitor to the Chancellor in the previous nine month — have , without a shadow of doubt , do great work to drive forward change and provide opportunity , so that individual can now go to work and have their childcare support and pay for by the state . that be certainly make a difference in universal credit . we continue to work closely across Government and with employer and stakeholder to refine the support on offer and more closely align employment and skill . we need to do that because it support unemployed people who be look for work . while the present position be very positive in term of increase employment , reduce vacancy and a reduce economic inactivity , we all know that there be more to do , and this be a Government who be passionately commit to ensure that we solve these problem . question put and agree to . House adjourn .